Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3152-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
November 17, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)  =  1,000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton      =  1,000 kg - 2,205 pounds - 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)   =  10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)      =  39.37 inches
ABBREVIATIONS
BRI    -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGC    -  Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGFCA  -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
FCRI   -  Food Crops Research Institute
GOI    -  Government of Indonesia
HYV    -  High Yielding Variety (of rice)
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IPB    -  Bogor Agricultural Institute (Institut Pertanian Bogor)
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
NSC    -  National Seeds Corporation
PSF    -  Provincial Seed Farm
SCCS   -  Seed Control and Certification Service
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
NSC, COOPERATIVES, AND P.T. PERTANI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $15.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
11.6% per annum.
Project
Description:  The proposed project seeks to raise agricultural production
and incomes by expanding and strengthening the organizations
responsible for production and marketing of high-quality food
crops seeds in Indonesia. It provides for construction of
about 24 new seed processing centers to be operated by two
public corporations (National Seeds Corporation and P.T.
Pertani) and selected cooperatives, and for incremental work-
ing capital for these same organizations. It also provides
new facilities, equipment, and incremental operating costs for
the several government agencies involved in the development,
multiplication, and inspection of improved varieties of seeds.
The training component includes assistance in starting a new
diploma course in seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural
Institute. At full development project investments combined
with those under the first seeds project would provide
improved seed for about 40% of the total demand for wetland
rice seed and 20% of the total demand for dryland rice and
secondary crop seed. Realization of the full benefits of the
project will depend on improved management of the two public
corporations involved, progress in the development of new seed
varieties for secondary crops, and successful extension
efforts to convince farmers of the value of improved seed.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                            Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
Investment
a. Breeder Seed Storage                 -        0.1      0.1
b. Provincial Seed Farms                1.6      0.6      2.2
c. Seed Processing Centers              7.3      7.3    14.6
d. Vehicles                             1.0      1.6      2.6
e. Laboratory Equipment                 -        0.2      0.2
f. Training                             0.9      0.4      1.3
g. Technical Assistance                 0.7      1.3      2.0
h. Studies and Pilot Activities         0.7      0.6      1.3
Subtotal                      12.2    12.1    24.3
Incremental Operating Costs
a- Supervision of seed
production                         0.5      -       0.5
b. Seed Certification                   0.4      -        0.4
Subtotal                       0.9      -        0.9
Incremental Working Capital               6.4      -        6.4
Total Base Cost               19.5    12.1    31.6
Physical Contingencies                     1.2     1.2      2.4
Price Contingencies                      12.0      4.0    16.0
Total Project Cost            32.7    17.3    50.0
Financing Plan:                                             Local  Foreign  Total
($ million) ----
Bank                                       -      15.0    15.0
Government                               27.0      2.3    29.3
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                     5.7        -      5.7
Total                               32.7    17.3    50.0
Estimated               Bank FY  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Disbursements:                 -----------------($ million)------------------
Annual         0.2   1.8   2.2   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.3   1.0
Cumulative    0.2   2.0   4.2   6.7   9.2  11.7  14.0  15.0
Rate of Return: 39%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3121-IND, dated November 9, 1981



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $15.0 million to help
finance a Second Seeds Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in 1980 and a further country economic memorandum,
"Indonesia: Development Prospects and Policy Options," (No. 3307-IND dated
April 6, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 13, 1981.
Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area of about two million sq km. With over 145
million people /2 it is the world-s fifth most populous nation. The popula-
tion density exceeds 650 persons per sq km on Java, where 62% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country; over 80% of the population live in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated to be $430./3
4.        The economy has grown at an annual rate of almost 8% for over a
decade - the highest sustained growth rate of any low-income country. Until
about the end of the First Five-Year Development Plan, Repelita I (1969/70 to
/1 Identical to the President's Report on the Eleventh Power Project
(No. P3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated October 22,
1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10, 1981.
/2 Preliminary results of the 1980 population census.
/3 Estimate for 1980.



- 2 -
1973/74), this rapid growth was largely due to effective recovery from the
severe dislocations of the 1960s. The Government of Indonesia (GOI) took
effective action to restore and then maintain macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy and provide incentives for investment. There was a
major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure, and the investment rate
doubled to 18% of GDP. Since then growth has been greatly assisted by
international developments, in particular the dramatic increase in oil prices
and the commodity boom. Net oil exports increased from $0.6 million in
1973/74 to over $10 billion in 1980/81 and as a result the balance of payments
moved into current account surplus - of $2 billion in 1979/80 and almost $3
billion in 1980/81 - for the first time in over two decades. Although
production linkages with other sectors have been very weak, the oil enclave
has had an important influence on overall growth through the infusion of
foreign exchange resources into the economy. Growth has been well diversi-
fied, with sectoral growth rates varying from 4% per annum in agriculture to
12% per annum in manufacturing and construction. However, despite the
favorable growth performance, the economy is still underdeveloped, with a
share of manufacturing in GDP of less than 10%, and a persistent deficit on
the nonoil current account.  Present projections of supply and demand for oil
suggest a decline in net export revenues of the oil sector in relation to the
growing needs of the economy, in the second half of the decade. For viable
long-run growth the economy will have to undergo significant structural
changes during the 1980s, to effect a broad-based expansion of industrial
production and of both industrial and agricultural exports.
Incomes and Poverty
5.        Average incomes per capita have been growing at 5% per annum, but
Indonesia remains an extremely poor country. It is estimated that almost 50%
of the population, some 65 million persons, were living in conditions of
absolute poverty in 1978. Household expenditure surveys indicate some
reduction in poverty incidence in the 1970s, especially in urban areas, but a
widening in rural urban disparities. The core of the poverty problem
continues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large proportion
of the population.  Here the number in poverty appears to have increased to
around 50 million by the end of the decade.
6.        The availability of productive employment is a key determinant of
incomes.  Total employment has been increasing at 3.3% p.a. during the 1970s.
In 1977/78 open unemployment was less than 2% in rural areas and about 6% in
urban areas.  There was, however, a particularly heavy incidence among young
educated males - 30% for urban males aged 20-24 with secondary school educa-
tion.  In the period 1971-78, manufacturing provided only 6% of the increase
in employment, and mining almost none, while the more labor-intensive agricul-
ture and tertiary sectors provided 42% and 52% respectively.  Agriculture
still accounted for 61% of total employment at the end of the period. Because
the oil sector has played a leading role in economic growth, thereby



- 3 -
encouraging a fast growing tertiary sector, the relative lack of industrial
employment has not had serious consequences in the past. However, in the
future, the growth of the industrial sector will be of critical importance for
the direct and indirect provision of employment.  It is also clear that
increasing remunerative employment in agriculture, for example in cash crop
production, will have a major role to play in poverty alleviation.
7.         Significant progress has been made in the social sectors.  Universal
primary enrollment will be achieved in the near future, and an adult literacy
rate of 62% compares well with an average of 50% for other low-income coun-
tries. However, secondary and higher education is comparatively less well
developed, and this has been a major factor behind the current shortage of
skilled manpower. With respect to health and demographic indicators, there
have been significant declines in both crude birth and death rates. An effec-
tive family planning program helped reduce fertility rates on Java and Bali,
while the 46% reduction in the crude death rate between 1960 and 1979 was only
exceeded by seven developing countries. However, the level of provision of
services remains underdeveloped, and only 12% of the population has access to
safe water, compared with 29% for all low-income countries.
Policy for Structural Adjustment
8.        Indonesia's past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the non-oil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The three primary goals of the Third Five-Year Development Plan,
Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84), are equity, growth and the maintenance of
national stability. The fact that Indonesia's resource position is likely to
be favorable for the first half of the 1980s presents the country with an
unusual opportunity to take effective policy action to bring about the
adjustments required to realize these goals.
9.        Although the main concern for the allocation of the resource wind-
fall is with long-run development, the maintenance of short-run stability is
also important. The channeling of the foreign exchange resource into the
economy, not least via the GOI budget, is already putting pressure on
domestic markets and encouraging a rapid expansion of liquidity. There is a
risk that medium-term supply responses will be too slow to prevent an
acceleration of inflation and an erosion of international competitiveness.
This emphasizes the importance of a distribution of incremental expenditure in
favor of improving sectoral supply responses.  In particular, it is important
that a reasonable expansion of credit to the private sector be maintained - in
the past this has been excessively squeezed to maintain monetary stability.
This could entail a slower rate of expansion of GOI expenditure.



- 4 -
10.       The performance of the industrial sector will be of critical impor-
tance to long-run development. GOI is planning a program of large-scale
industrial investments, in refineries, LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer,
cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining, with an estimated investment
cost of $15-20 billion. This will broaden the industrial base, but will have
very limited employment implications. Of greater importance for employment
is the encouragement of small- and medium-scale private manufacturing. The
1978 devaluation from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar significantly improved
the profitability of labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries and was accompanied by a system of export certificates (tax
rebates) to provide additional incentives. The trade regime is still
characterized by a wide variation in rates of effective protection, but GOI
is taking measures to rationalize the system. However, the private sector
also suffers from a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area of
investment licensing, and limitations on the availability of credit. These
will require further policy reforms to create an environment conducive to
private investment.
11.       Despite the abundance of energy resources, Indonesia faces a
potentially serious long-run energy problem. Oil and gas now account for 98%
of domestic consumption of commercial energy and demand has been growing
rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a serious reduction in foreign exchange
from the oil sector in the 1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage,
in particular through the development of the coal, hydropower and geothermal
potential. This will require both a major investment program in this decade
and measures to encourage interfuel substitution and more efficient energy
use. The most important policy measure required is the gradual elimination of
the subsidy on some petroleum products that is now a major distortion in the
system.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export reve-
nue (agriculture accounted for 75% of 1979 non-oil export revenue), food pro-
duction and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to a record
level of around 20 million tons in 1980, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier, largely as a result of irrigation and the dissemination of new agri-
cultural technology. Future investment in physical infrastructure, especially
irrigation and roads, combined with a favorable market environment will be the
main determinants of further expansion in food production. Tree crops have
suffered from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very
old, but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting.
This will require substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing.
13.       To sustain rapid economic growth and reduce poverty, substantial
investment in human resources development will be critical. The lack of
skilled manpower affects almost every sector. Shortages are largely due to
the poorly developed secondary and higher education system, although the high
rates of unemployment amongst secondary school leavers suggest a major



- 5 -
mismatch between supply and demand at this level.  In the short run there is
scope for better utilization of existing manpower through stopgap training
schemes, while available foreign exchange resources could be used to finance
fellowships abroad and, in the interim, to purchase foreign skills. There is
also a strong justification for the use of incremental resources in the health
sector. However, increased outlays on health infrastructure will have to be
complemented by the development of innovative approaches to identifying and
tackling health problems, involving the participation of local communities.
The successful family planning program provides a good model.
14.       The public sector has been of growing importance, with central
government expenditures now accounting for around 30% of GDP. A significant
fraction of incremental resources, about 50% in 1980/81, has gone directly to
public and private consumption in the form of higher civil service and
military salaries from initial low levels, and subsidies on commodities.
Subsidies on petroleum products, food and fertilizer have grown very rapidly
to a budgeted level of over $3 billion in 1981/82. Although this has shielded
the economy from sudden shocks, the long-run impact on inflation is likely to
be limited and consumption data suggest that the main beneficiaries have not
been the very poor. Resources for development have also risen rapidly, to the
extent that it now appears that the financial constraint is often less
important than nonfinancial constraints, including the availability of skilled
manpower, the capacity of the construction industry and limited administrative
capability. The administrative framework for project implementation was
greatly improved in 1979 by the introduction of simplified appropriation
procedures and the adoption of post-auditing practices. However, restrictions
in eligibility of certain smaller contracts to small firms controlled by
economically weak groups is likely to delay local project implementation.
Wider issues of administration, including the question of decentralization,
are also under review. Finally, there is a continuing need to increase
allocations to maintenance of public investments, notably in irrigation and
roads.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
15.       The external resource surplus has greatly helped GOI's budgetary
position. However, in order to reduce the dependence on oil revenue and lay
the foundation for long-term resource mobilization it is important to maintain
the domestic effort. Domestic revenue is of particular value since expendi-
ture from this source has a smaller inflationary impact than expenditure from
oil revenue. Non-oil tax revenue as a proportion of nonmining GDP actually
declined from almost 10% in 1978/79 to less than 9% in 1979/80 and 1980/81.
It is important that the capacity of the tax system be increased through
expanding the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration.
There is also great scope for mobilization of resources through reduction of
the subsidies on petroleum and other products. A steady rise in domestic
petroleum prices to the international level during the 1980s would have a
major impact on budget savings.



16.       External financing of GOI expenditure is budgeted at $2.4 billion in
1980/81 or 20% of the development budget, compared with almost 40% in 1978/79.
Total disbursed and outstanding external public debt was about $15 billion at
the end of 1980; including undisbursed amounts, external public debt totalled
almost $24 billion. The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains the
principal source of external capital, including Official Development
Assistance (ODA), to the country. New commitments in 1980 were almost equal
to the $2.1 billion recommended in the Bank's 1980 economic memorandum on
Indonesia. Public sector commercial borrowings are estimated to have reached
$1.7 billion in 1980. With the increased availability of foreign exchange, in
the near term capital inflows are not required on resource grounds. However,
during the disbursement periods of projects currently being considered, a
resource gap will re-emerge in Indonesia. In addition, there is still an
urgent need for support of policy and institutional changes embodied in
foreign loans.  It is anticipated that ODA will continue at a reduced real
level, and on harder terms, in the first half of the 1980s. It is of
particular importance that external finance be used to support policies
designed to prevent the re-emergence of a serious resource deficit toward the
end of the decade. It is anticipated that the public debt service ratio, with
oil exports on a net basis, will remain in the region of 9-10% for the first
half of the 1980s.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of September 30, 1981, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 59 Bank loans amounting to $3,814.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 was
about 9.5%, and the share of debt service about 4.7%. By the end of 1980,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 10.8% and 6.7%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of July 31, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including
transmigration) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of
Bank Group supported projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans
and credits have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy,
including transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
/1 Identical to the President's Report on the Eleventh Power Project
(No. P3132-IND), circulated under cover of R81-276, dated October 22,
1981, and approved by the Executive Directors on November 10, 1981.



18.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of these
first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was already
consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis is being given to GOI's
new priorities.
19.       The resource surplus discussed in Part I of this report provides
GOI with a unique opportunity to accelerate its development effort. This
will require both effective policy reform, notably in improving the policy
environment for private investment, and major investments in industry, infra-
structure, treecrop development and human resources development. The Bank's
program of lending and economic work is being geared to support the required
measures. Since the resource constraint has been alleviated, at least
temporarily, the primary emphasis of Bank involvement will be on policy and
institutional development and technical assistance in the key sectors. This
will involve a close integration between sector work and lending and the
gradual broadening of lending to the subsector and sector level in order to
assist with policy issues at this level.
20.       The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves
a rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work focused on a policy for the promotion of labor-intensive export-
oriented growth, and it is planned to follow this with a series of industrial
projects. In energy, new sector work and continued lending will concentrate
on policies to diversify Indonesia-s energy base, rationalize pricing and
improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and treecrops will continue to absorb
a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance of these sectors,
and continued support for transport is anticipated. Increased lending is
planned in the areas of provision of social services, in population, health
and nutrition, urban development and water supply. In these areas there
will be increased emphasis on institutional support and the develpoment of
innovative low-cost solutions. For example, the proposed health project will
focus on improving the working of the whole health care system at the level
of a specific province.



21,       For about the last two years the Bank and GOI have made a major
effort to improve disbursement performance. Many of the problems appear to
be related to GOI's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both
managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by GOI
and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank missions have
visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommendations for
simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The GOI and the Bank have
also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to identify general
and project-specific problems and work out corrective measures. The first of
these reviews was held in June 1979 and a second, more comprehensive one, in
September 1980. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in
September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint initia-
tives, GOI has taken several measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally,
to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now
being presented for Board consideration at a later stage in the project cycle.
Indications are that, as a result of these efforts, improvements are taking
place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from $204.0 million
in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80, and to $373.5 million in FY81. While it is
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts, these trends are
encouraging.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below the IDA
cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payments position,
IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposed project constitutes the third lending operation pre-
sented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. The Jakarta Cikampek
Highway and Eleventh Power projects were approved by the Executive Directors
earlier this fiscal year. Projects under advanced stage of preparation and
appraisal include the Bukit Asam mining and transport, sixteenth irrigation,
East Java Province irrigation, tenth education, second teacher training and
second fertilizer distribution projects.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       Objectives.  GOI's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising demand;
(c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree crops; and
(d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water and other
natural resources.



- 9 -
25.        Role and Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families grow
subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and
tobacco. Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, agriculture's
share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its share of
exports dropped from 45% to 37% due to the increased value of oil exports.
Nevertheless, agriculture provides 80% of non-oil exports, employs 60-66% of
the total labor force (depending on the season), accounted for 46% of incre-
mental employment during 1971-76, and is the major source of income for about
two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban households. Outside
Java, employment prospects in agriculture are quite promising, given the
sustained increases in the smallholder area, including that developed by
publicly-sponsored and spontaneous transmigration. On Java,continued
irrigation rehabilitation is expected to generate significant employment.
26.        Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources, GOI
has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple
food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly
(4.5% p.a.) over 1968-74, chiefly due to irrigation rehabilitation and the
provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and high-yielding variety
seed, financed largely through the GOIs BIMAS credit program for farm
inputs. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77, in the
wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private
sector fertilizer trade), untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by
pests and diseases. Over 1977-80, rice production increased by 7% p.a.,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide GOI distribution of pest-resistant varieties, reaching almost 20
million tons in 1980. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops
(maize, cassava, soybeans, groundnuts, and sweet potatoes) grew at only a
combined rate of 1.6% p.a. These gains in food output did not keep pace
with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand, stimulated by rising incomes.
Over the decade, Indonesia became the world½s largest rice importer,
averaging 1.9 million tons in 1977-79, while annual wheat imports reached
1-1.2 million tons. The Bank report "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major
Food Crops," (No. 2374-IND of March 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons annually.
27.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about a third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this) and generate about
43% of non-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area
and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil
palm are grown primarily on estates. Efforts to revitalize the smallholder
tree crop sector have commenced on several fronts. Under the five Bank-
assisted Nucleus Estates and Smallholders projects, GOI estates plant and
maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for three years, using



- 10 -
settlers as employees, and thereafter provide the settlers with inputs,
extension services and processing facilities. GOI has also initiated national
programs to assist existing smallholders to plant rubber or coconuts
themselves with fairly intensive support from project management units. Given
the vast area of overaged and low-yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts,
the good market prospects and employment potential for these crops, and the
Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage in them,
rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable approaches, is a
high priority.
28.       Development in Rural Java.  Cultivable land in Java is almost fully
utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already exceeds ecologi-
cally safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion, downstream flooding,
and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals. GOI is preparing
watershed development and integrated development projects to address these
problems. Rural development depends substantially on improved agricultural
technologies to increase cropping intensities and yields.
29.       Transmigration.  A primary program for new area development in the
Other Islands, as well as for reducing population pressures on Java, is
transmigration. Confronted by management problems, GOI reorganized the
program in preparation for Repelita III by transferring most implementation
responsibility from the Directorate General of Transmigration to the
appropriate technical agencies. This measure needs to be complemented by
continued attention to a variety of technical and policy issues, some of which
the Transmigration II Project (Loan 1707-IND/Credit 919-IND) is attempting to
address.
30.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 15 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the GOI's agricultural objectives
and priorities, future Bank agricultural lending is expected to focus on:
(a) a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation
program to intensify rice cropping on Java and extend water management in the
Other Islands; (b) smallholder tree crop planting programs; (c) area
development of critical watersheds on Java; and (d) transmigration in the
Other Islands. These projects will continue to be complemented by extensive
sector work. Analyses of employment and income distribution, irrigation,
agricultural support services, food crop production, the rubber subsector and
the transmigration program have been completed, and reviews of food crops and
supply and demand for technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are
underway.
The Food-Crop Seed Subsector
31.       Seed Breeding and Production for Rice.  The rice seed industry in
Indonesia was established in the late 1960s to meet the need for continuous
breeding, selection, and multiplication of new high-yielding varieties (HYVs)



- 11 -
of wetland rice. New varieties of rice are continuously bred and selected for
disease and pest resistance, yield, eating quality, early maturity, and
suitability for Indonesia's various ecological conditions. There are four
stages of multiplication of seeds involving several organizations. The first
generations of a new variety, termed breeder seed, are produced at the Food
Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs). The next two generations, termed
foundation seed and stock seed, are produced by a few Provincial Seed Farms
(PSFs) of the Provincial Agricultural Services and by the National Seeds
Corporation (NSC). Inspection is done by the Seed Control and Certification
Service (SCCS) to ensure quality standards. Further generations produced from
stock seed, termed commercial seed, are then sold to farmers. The highest
quality of commercial seed, which meets certification standards, is called
extension seed. Tested seed which only meets somewhat lower standards is
called regulated seed. GOI policy is to continue shifting responsibility for
commercial seed production to NSC, P.T. Pertani (a GOI-owned company supplying
agricultural inputs), cooperatives, and private growers, leaving the PSFs to
concentrate on foundation and stock seed production.
32.       Seed Breeding and Production for Secondary Crops.  Seed of secondary
crops (palawija) has only recently begun to receive attention because of the
crops' smaller role in Indonesia agricultural and a lack of suitable HYVs.
There is as yet no certification of palawija seed as the varieties lack
uniformity and identifiable characteristics to permit varietal purity tests.
At present, after release by the FRCIs, palawija seeds are multiplied by PSFs
and private growers to produce grades of regulated seed comparable to founda-
tion, stock, and extension seed. As a result of the increased research and
development efforts, it is anticipated palawija seeds will become increasingly
important in the seed industry.
33.       Demand for Seed.  Indonesia's annual planted area of HYV rice is
about five million hectares, for which the total HYV seed demand is estimated
to be about 50,000 tons per year. In 1979/80 total production of extension
seed was about 8,300 tons (6,150 tons by NSC, 1,400 tons by PSFs, and 750 tons
by private growers), and production of regulated seed, about 7,800 tons. The
remaining 65-70% of HYV seed was the lower quality, unregulated seed obtained
either through commercial channels or direct from other farmers. Virtually
all palawija seed is now unregulated.
34.       Marketing and Prices.  Commercial seed is marketed through private
agricultural dealers, village cooperatives, or directly by the growers. The
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) officially sets the retail price of extension
seed from NSC. To stimulate demand it has kept the price, currently Rp 210/
kg,/l well below NSC's cost of production. However, this low price in turn
/1 NSC has now proposed to increase it in Java to Rp 235/kg for common
varieties and Rp 250/kg for new varieties; GOI is reviewing that proposal.



- 12 -
makes it uneconomic for the private sector to produce high quality seed.  To
correct this situation, GOI has agreed that for rice seed sold on Java
(where farmer acceptance of quality seed is already relatively high), prices
would be set by January 1, 1986 so that NSC revenues would be sufficient to
cover the cost for such seed excluding return on investments and by January 1,
1988, prices would be sufficient to cover costs including a 10% return on
investment under this project. For rice seed sold outside Java and secondary
crop seed (where the rate of farmer acceptance is quite uncertain), GOI has
agreed prices would be set so that NSC and P.T. Pertani revenues would be
sufficient to cover costs as soon as feasible (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Prices for palawija seeds vary widely, reflecting variations in
seed quality and in palawija crop prices. Although the BIMAS credit program
for farm inputs covers the cost of seed, it is not used extensively because of
the declining importance of this farm input program and because the loans are
often not made in time for purchase of seed. Thus, purchase of seed is
usually financed by farmers themselves.
35.       Seed for Transmigrants.  Transmigrants usually have little seed of
their own to start with, and there are few PSFs or other seed growers near
transmigration areas. In view of this GOI policy calls for the Provincial
Agricultural Services to (a) supply a free initial seed package, (b) develop
PSFs to produce stock seed in the transmigration areas, financed under the
transmigration program, and (c) organize contract growers of commercial seed.
However, due to implementation problems seed for transmigrants has often been
of inferior quality and delivered late, although the timeliness of supply has
been improving.  The seed marketing and distribution study to be done under
the proposed project would review the situation and make recommendations (see
para. 42).
36.       Shortcomings of the Seed Industry.  Despite its success in
developing, multiplying and distributing pest-resistant rice varieties, the
seed industry in Indonesia still has many shortcomings:
(a) palawija crops, upland rice and the Other Islands have been
largely neglected;
(b) there is inadequate processing and storage capacity;
(c) much seed marketing is inefficient, resulting in seed having to be
sold for consumption;
(d) low seed prices have discouraged the private sector and coopera-
tives from producing and marketing high-quality seed; and
(e) there is a shortage of adequately trained and experienced personnel.
The proposed project would attempt to address these problems.



- 13 -
37.       Bank Group Lending for Seeds.  The first Seeds Project (Cr. 246-IND;
$7.5 million) was implemented from 1971-78. Its objective was to establish a
modern industry for the development, multiplication and processing of HYV rice
seed in Java. It established NSC to produce seed on a large mechanized farm
in West Java, to manage seed growers under contract in several districts and
to process and market seed. However, because of poor project design and
implementation, the mechanized farm has still only reached about 40% of its
production targets. The first Seeds project did successfully establish the
SCCS to implement and enforce seed standards, and FCRI Sukamandi, which,
although delayed in its early stages, is now successfully breeding and testing
new rice varieties.
38.       The Project Performance Audit Report for the Seeds project, dated
December 28, 1979 (Sec.M80-5), concluded that: (a) contract growing is more
efficient than mechanized rice estate production; (b) NSC needs considerable
strengthening before being given additional responsibilities; and (c) more
extensive marketing and engineering preparation work is needed than was done
for the first Seeds Project. Reflecting these views NSC has expanded its
contract growing system rapidly over the past two years so that it now
accounts for over half of NSC's output and agreement has been reached that NSC
would replace no more than two combine harvesters at Sukamandi (Section 4.11
of the draft Loan Agreement). This means that over the next five years NSC
would gradually shift at least an additional 1,200 ha used for extension
seed to contract growers or contract operations, depending on which proves
more efficient. NSC's management performance has improved since the audit
report, and the gradual reduction of mechanized production, as well as
increases in the sales price of NSC seed (para. 34), should put NSC on a
sounder financial and technical footing. In addition, two new NSC Directors
were appointed in January 1981, and the Second Seeds project would include
consultancy, staff training and appointment of key NSC staff. The audit
report called for preparation of tender documents and carrying out of market
studies before appraisal of the Second Seeds Project. Although the former
could not be done, a consultant to prepare tender documents for the initial
year's investment has been selected and the initial tender documents are
expected to be issued in February 1982. The marketing studies done under
the first project, as updated and amended by the Second Seeds preparation
and appraisal missions, indicate adequate demand for seed to justify the
project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was prepared by the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program.  It
was appraised in March 1980 and a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3121-IND) is
being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from July 13 to July 17,
1981, where the GOI delegation was led by Mr. Wardoyo, Director General of
Food Crops Agriculture, Ministry of Agriculture.



- 14 -
Project Background
40.       This project would extend the coverage of the first Seeds Project
to other crops and provinces, while correcting some of the shortcomings of
that project. In particular, it would build upon NSC's successful contract
growing and would utilize existing PSFs and private growers instead of trying
to replace them. The main issue during project preparation concerned the
roles of NSC, P.T. Pertani, cooperatives and the private sector in the
project. Despite NSC-s weaknesses and the desire of GOI and the Bank for a
greater private sector role in seed processing, NSC was selected as the main
implementing agency because of its expertise and experience in the seed
industry and because for the near future private firms do not have the
expertise and are unlikely to take the risks inherent in pioneering seed
processing for new areas and new crops. P.T. Pertani, despite its current
financial weaknesses (para. 49), was included in the project because it is in
the best position to provide seed to transmigration areas. Central coopera-
tives and village cooperatives were added in accordance with GOI policy to
expand and diversify the role of the cooperative sector. Increased private
sector involvement in the seeds industry would be encouraged by increasing
quality seed prices over a period of years, and some funds have been provided
for studies and follow-up pilot programs to encourage private sector
processing.
Objectives and General Description
41.       The proposed project would increase the food supply and raise the
incomes of small farmers by (a) improving the quality, reliability and avail-
ability of rice and palawija seed; (b) strengthening NSC, P.T. Pertani, SCCS,
and selected cooperatives and PSFs; and (c) encouraging a larger private sec-
tor role in seed production and processing. The project is highly interde-
pendent with the two Bank Group-financed agricultural research projects
(Ln. 1179-IND and Ln. 1840-IND/Cr 1014-IND), as the research institutes
financed under those projects would breed and test the new varieties before
their release, and with the two agricultural extension projects (Ln. 1267-IND
and Cr. 996-IND), because extension workers would educate the farmers about
improved seed, and help organize and supervise contract growers. By ensuring
provision of seed for transmigrants, the project would support GOI's ongoing
transmigration effort, including the Bank Group-assisted Transmigration I and
II projects (Ln. 1318-IND and Ln. 1707-IND/Cr. 919-IND).
42.       Components.  The project would provide assistance for the following:
(a)  air-conditioned long-term storage for breeder seed at five FCRIs;
(b) incremental operating expenses of FCRIs for supervision of
foundation seed production and of Provincial Agriculture Services
for supervision of PSFs and private growers;



- 15 -
(c) irrigation/drainage improvements, storage, and other civil works
for about 40 PSFs, which would produce foundation and stock seed;
GOI will continue to supply the necessary equipment for these PSF-s
(Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement), which are being
provided in part under Japanese bilateral aid;
(d) construction of about 18 new medium-sized seed processing centers
(9 for NSC, 6 for P.T. Pertani and 3 for either central coopera-
tives or NSC); 6 new small centers for village cooperatives; and
additional equipment for about 10 existing centers owned by NSC
and the East Java Provincial Agricultural Service;
(e) vehicles for all implementing agencies;
(f) incremental working capital for NSC, P.T. Pertani, cooperatives, and
PSFs, to finance operating expenses until the sale of seed;
(g) equipment and incremental operating expenses for SCCS for
certification/regulation of project seed;
(h) facilities and operating expenses for establishing a diploma
course in seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute
(IPB), plus additional in-service training for staff of the
various implementing agencies;
(i) technical assistance comprising consultants in management, finance,
training, seed marketing, production, and processing; and
(j) studies of (i) seed marketing and distribution, (ii) the benefits
from improved seed, (iii) seed treatment, (iv) site selection for
the latter years of the project, and (v) the potential private and
cooperative sector roles in seed processing, plus pilot activities
arising from this study.
43.        These project investments would strengthen the seed industry at all
levels. The capacity of the FCRIs to store breeder seed and supervise pro-
duction of foundation seed would be increased. Facilities at PSFs to produce
foundation and stock seed, as well as the ability of SCCS to inspect that
production, would be improved. NSC, P.T. Pertani, and the selected coopera-
tives would expand the network of contract growers for the production of
commercial seed. The new processing centers, and the expanded certification
services of SCCS, would ensure that a larger share of commercial seed could
meet the quality standards for extension seed. The training component,
especially the diploma course at IPB, would increase the number of technical
personnel for both the public and private seed industry. Studies would help
set the course for future development of the industry.



- 16 -
44.       Coverage.  The project would provide processing centers in 12 major
food producing provinces in which sufficient demand for quality seed is
expected and which presently account for 90% of Indonesia's rice and
palawija production. In addition, it would finance facilities for SCCS and
selected PSFs nationwide. It would cover wetland and dryland rice and the
four major palawija crops - maize, soybeans, groundnuts and mungbeans.
Together, these crops provide about 68% of total caloric intake in Indonesia.
The palawija would be phased in slowly primarily because the palawija breeding
program is just starting to expand. The initial objective of the project in
this area would be to provide regulated seed of improved varieties; by the
end of the project, it is hoped that certified extension seed for palawija
will be available.
45.       The project would aim to provide processed seed to 40% of the farm
input market for wetland rice seed and 20% of the market for dryland rice and
palawija seed./l In addition, it would supply about 60% of the initial seed
packages for transmigrants nationwide, and an equal amount of replacement seed
for transmigrants. Projected annual project output of 27,000 tons of seed
would be approximately one-half rice and one-half palawija crops; two thirds
would be for Java.
46.       Processing Centers.  The largest project component would be new
processing centers. The 18 medium-sized processing centers to be built and
operated by NSC, P.T. Pertani and central cooperatives, each with a
capacity of 1-2,000 tons/year of seed, would include seed cleaning
machines, threshers, seed treaters, and bagging machines. This equipment
would be housed in buildings totalling 2-3,000 sq m, and each center would
include two staff houses and an outdoor drying floor. The six small
processing centers to be operated by village cooperatives would use only
very simple equipment and have a capacity of 100-200 tons/year. Additional
facilities and equipment would also be provided to existing processing
centers now operated by NSC. NSC would operate the eight processing centers
owned by the Provincial Agricultural Services in East Java through at least
1992 (Section 3.11 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Organization, Management and Implementation
47.       Overall Project Management.  Overall project management responsi-
bility would be with the Director General for Food Crops Agriculture and the
Director of Production in the Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
(DGFCA) has been named part-time Project Manager for this project. A small
Project Secretariat, headed by a full-time Project Secretary, would be
established in his office to plan, coordinate and supervise project
implementation, including procurement, disbursement, monitoring, evaluation,
reporting and coordination of schedules (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Loan
/1 Including the 20% of this market on Java already met under the first Seeds
project.



- 17 -
Agreement). Within DGFCA's Directorate of Production, two sub-directorates
deal with seeds: Seed Production and the SCCS. Under the project, the
former would determine the varieties and quantities of foundation and stock
seed to be produced and would supervise and coordinate the PSFs- role.
Qualified managers would be assigned to the PSFs to be upgraded under the
project (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       NSC, a GOI corporation operating under the commercial code, is run
by a full-time Board comprising a President-Director and Directors of Finance
and Administration, Production and Processing, and Marketing. To address
past management weaknesses, under the project NSC would hire by December 31,
1982, an internal auditor, training manager and marketing planning officer
(Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, NSC would take
necessary steps, including salary adjustments, to attract and retain qualified
and experienced staff (Section 4.06(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       P.T. Pertani is a GOI-owned company which supplies agricultural
inputs. Fertilizer and pesticide distribution account for about 90% of its
revenues. Since 1977, P.T. Pertani at GOI request, has procured and delivered
seed to more isolated areas such as transmigration projects. More recently,
it has entered the business of producing and marketing regulated seed in Bali
and West Nusa Tenggara. The company continues to face serious financial
problems arising from substantial losses in 1973 and 1974 and from weak
financial management. Audits have not yet been completed for years after
1975. The project's financial consultant would help restructure P.T.
Pertani's accounting system and provide on-the-job training to its financial
staff. Audits of P.T. Pertani's 1976-80 accounts would be completed by
September 30, 1982 (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). Disbursement
for the P.T. Pertani processing centers for 1983 and thereafter would be
conditional upon the determination by the Bank, based on the completed audits,
that P.T. Pertani can satisfactorily carry out its role under the project
(Schedule 1, Part 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Like NSC, P.T. Pertani
would take necessary steps to attract and retain qualified and experienced
staff (Section 4.06(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
50.       At present village cooperatives market about 50% of NSC seed and
almost all of P.T. Pertani's seed, except that for transmigration areas, but
they are not involved in seed processing. In the past few years, GOI has
made a concerted effort to strengthen the cooperative system and to increase
their role in supplying agricultural inputs and processing outputs. A pilot
program will be included in the project to give small processing centers to
about six of the best village cooperatives on Java, selected by DGC with the
agreement of DGFCA. As another part of this effort, central cooperatives
have been established in many provinces.  Their main role has been as bulk
suppliers of fertilizers to village cooperatives and of rice from village
cooperatives to the National Logistics Agency, but they are starting to
undertake agro-processing as well. GOI would by August 31, 1983, complete
that portion of the study on private and cooperative sector roles in seed



- 18 -
processing related to central cooperatives and would then send to the Bank
for approval proposals for the ownership, management, and operation of the
three processing centers now designated either for central cooperatives or
NSC (Section 3.04(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). If the central
cooperatives in East and Central Java are considered able to do so, they
would establish and operate these three centers beginning in the third and
fourth years of the project; otherwise NSC would do so.
51.       Seed for the processing center would be grown by groups of
contract growers, who would (a) be within about 20-25 km of the processing
centers; (b) be in large enough blocks (at least 5-10 ha) for certification
and efficient supervision; (c) be progressive farmers with good crop yields,
indicating suitable land, sound cultivation practices and the absence of
serious pests or diseases; and (d) have harvest times such that output would
be available when needed for planting with minimal storage.
52.       Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  Monitoring and reporting
would be the responsibility of the Project Secretariat in DGFCA and would
cover: (a) project physical implementation and cost; (b) seed prices and total
sales; (c) seed quality; (d) the processors overall production and financial
performance; (e) the availability of adequate breeder, foundation and stock
seed for subsequent multiplication; and (f) the development of private sector
seed processing. An evaluation officer in the Project Secretariat would
coordinate the study on the benefits of better seed quality, organize sample
surveys of project seed buyers to learn if they have saved on seed use, and
try to determine the extent to which the project is accelerating the
distribution of new varieties.
53.       Technical Assistance.  Under the management of DGFCA, about 200 man-
months of technical assistance would be provided to the implementing agencies
to strengthen their managerial and technical capabilities and assist in pro-
ject implementation. DGFCA would also employ consultants to undertake the
studies of the benefits from using improved seeds, seed treatment, and the
potential private sector and cooperative role in seed processing./l In addi-
tion, 50 man-months of assistance by visiting instructors would be provided to
Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB) to help start the diploma course in seeds
technology while IPB staff are in graduate school abroad. These consultants
and visiting instructors, with qualifications and experience and on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed to DGFCA by May 31,
1982, for assistance to the implementing agencies and by December 31, 1982,
for the studies, and to IPB by June 30, 1983 (Sections 3.03, 3.04, and 3.05
of the draft Loan Agreement). The average man-month cost for consultants sup-
plied by an international firm, including salary, costs, fees, international
travel, housing and subsistence, is expected to be about $7,300. Total cost
of $8,000 per man-month also includes local travel and other expenses.
/1 The study of seed marketing and distribution would be undertaken by DGFCA
with assistance from the seed marketing consultant.



- 19 -
54.       Implementation Schedule.  Investments are scheduled over four years,
and operating expenses over five years to allow for a full year's operation
after investments are completed. Working capital requirements would increase
until year seven. The investment programs for PSFs and processing centers
for FY82 have been agreed. In the future DGFCA would send to the Bank by
August 31 of each subsequent year proposals for the seed processing centers
and PSFs to be developed the following year, supported by site selections
studies (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
55.       Total project cost is estimated at $50.0 million of which $17.3 mil-
lion (35%) is foreign exchange. The tax element in the project is insignifi-
cant. Physical contingencies of 10% have been added for all investment items.
Base costs reflect July 1981 prices. Prices contingencies amount to 47% of
total base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming inflation rates of 18%
p.a. for local costs in calendar 1981, 14% p.a. in 1982, and 10% p.a. there-
after and 9% p.a. for foreign exchange costs in 1981, 8.5% p.a. in 1982,
7.5% p.a. in 1983-85, and 6% p.a. thereafter. The proposed Bank loan of
$15.0 million is equivalent to 100% of foreign exchange cost excluding the
costs of vehicles covered by "reserved procurement" (para. 56). Of the
remaining $35.0 million, the investment and working capital for cooperatives,
$5.7 million, would be provided as GOI-guaranteed credit at subsidized rates
(now 6% p.a.) and $29.3 million, including working capital requirements for
NSC and P.T. Pertani, would be financed by GOI. Bank and GOI investments
would be passed on by GOI as equity contributions to NSC and P.T. Pertani and
as credits to the cooperatives under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Procurement and Disbursements
56.       Seed processing, storage and laboratory equipment ($8.4 million
including price and physical contingencies) would be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
To the extent feasible, procurement of this equipment would be done through
two contracts. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Local procurement procedures would be used for:
(a) buildings and other civil works ($17.3 million) which are not suitable for
ICB because they are scattered and involve relatively small amounts of
financing spread over four years; (b) equipment and supplies costing less than
$50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate of $500,000; and (c) vehicles
($4.3 million), which would be "reserved procurement" for which imports are
prohibited and hence which are not eligible for financing or disbursement
under the project. To the extent possible civil works contracts for each
site would be grouped together.



- 20 -
57.       Disbursements would be made at:  (a) 20% for civil works contracts
for processing centers; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of directly imported
equipment, 95% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured items, and 65%
of expenditure on imported but locally procured items; (c) 100% for technical
assistance, training and studies. Disbursements would be made against full
documentation, except that statements of expenditures would be used for
operating expenses of training courses and studies, except consultancies.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
Accounts and Audit
58.       Separate accounts would be maintained to record all project trans-
actions. NSC's, P.T. Pertani's, and participating cooperatives overall
financial statements would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank; these audited accounts and the audit report would be submitted to
the Bank within nine months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The State Auditor is expected to do the auditing
of NSC and P.T. Pertani.
Financial Analysis
59.       Seed Prices.  While in the past GOI has kept the price of NSC rice
seed below the cost of production to encourage demand and has subsidized NSC-s
resulting financial losses, it has now been agreed that in the future NSC and
P.T. Pertani seed prices would be increased (para. 34). The longer-term
price adjustments should both put NSC, P.T. Pertani, and the cooperatives
involved in seed processing on a sound financial footing and provide incentive
to the private sector to upgrade the quality of its seed. However, in order
to provide an incentive to reduce costs and expand output, NSC and P.T.
Pertani would receive with respect to each crop a pre-determined subsidy per
kg of seed whenever GOI sets seed prices below average costs (Section 4.09 of
the draft Loan Agreement). The marketing study, along with the demand
response to the initial price increases, would help determine how quickly GOI
could move to full cost pricing.
60.       Cost Recovery.  Sale of seed would provide about 30-40% cost
recovery, but this level of cost recovery is viewed as adequate because most
beneficiaries would be near or below the critical income level.
61.       NSC Financial Status and Projections.  NSC has been incurring heavy
losses ($1.3 million in 1979) primarily because of (a) low yields and high
costs on the Sukamandi farm, (b) overstaffing, and (c) the low seed price set
by GOI. It is expected that measures to be taken during the project would
correct this situation, and that by year seven (full project output) NSC would
be covering its operating costs plus an allowance for depreciation.



- 21 -
Benefits and Risks
62.       The 27,000 tons of seed produced annually under the project at full
development would be sufficient to plant some 775,000 ha/year. Annual incre-
mental crop output due to the improved seed is estimated at about 63,000 tons
of rice, 24,000 tons of maize, 7,000 tons of soybeans, 5,000 tons of ground-
nuts, and 900 tons of mungbeans. Virtually all output would be for the
domestic market. With food crop holdings in Indonesia averaging about 0.5 ha
of wetland, or 1.0 ha of dryland, about one million families, some 60% of whom
would be below the absolute poverty line, would purchase project seed in any
given year. In addition, some 20,000 families would benefit from being
contract growers. By building up the seed industry, the project would also
permit other advances in agricultural technology in Indonesia, such as intro-
duction of seed treatment and hybrid maize. A strengthened food crops seed
industry is also an important support for the transmigration program, would
provide a base for expanding into other types of seeds (such as fruits and
vegetables for home gardens) and provides insurance against pest and disease
attacks by helping accelerate the distribution of resistant varieties.
63.       Use of the improved seed is expected to increase rice yields by 4%
(with the likely range 3-5%), and palawija crop yields by 8%, due mainly to
(a) higher varietal purity (which assures more uniform grain ripening and
the absence of seeds of less suitable varieties) and (b) more vigorous growth
(resulting from better drying and storage, and the removal of smaller seeds).
In addition, the higher germination percentage would enable farmers to use
less seed. Yield increases would be higher for palawija crops than for rice
because of the much lower quality of palawija seed now available and because
the project would significantly increase the overall availability of seed of
suitable varieties (a reasonable seed multiplication system already being in
place for rice). The estimated economic rate of return is about 39%. The
rate of return would still be 10% if incremental yields for rice and palawija
crops were only 1.7% and 3.5%, respectively.
64.       The main project risks would be (a) poor NSC management, (b) failure
of the FCRIs to develop adequate new palawija varieties, and (c) farmer
unwillingness to pay higher prices for quality seed. To help strengthen NSC,
the project provides training, consultancy, and additional staff. Sharply
curtailing NSC's mechanized farming at Sukamandi, and putting NSC on a
commercial footing, would reduce some of NSCGs biggest problems. In view of
these measures, it is expected that NSC management could handle its role in
the proposed project. The considerable investment in the FCRIs under the two
agricultural research projects, including the training of a number of palawija
breeders, reduces the risk of insufficient new palawija varieties to an
acceptable level. As certified seed half pays for itself through a lower seed
rate, before even considering the higher yields, effective extension work by
the Provincial Agricultural Services, coupled with strengthening of NSC-s and
P.T. Pertani's marketing organization under the project, should minimize the
risk of price resistance by farmers.



- 22 -
Environmental Effects
65.       The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  In fact,
the multiplication of crop varieties resistant to various pests and diseases
would tend to reduce the need for applying agrochemicals to the crops.
Chemicals to be used in seed treatment would be relatively non-toxic to animal
life, and at the small quantities applied would have no adverse effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 17, 1981
Washington, D.C.



-23                                               ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV.RAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/a
TUTAL           1919.3                                          MOST RECENT       W  INCOME          MIDDLE INCOKE
AGRICULTURAL     286.4                   1960  /b    1970 /b     ESTIMATE /b   ASIA i PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      80.0        140.0           370.0            232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         130.1        128.4           237.1            499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     94680.0    116143.0         142870.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)     14.6         17.1            19.8             17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                219.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                  388.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                            2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KOt.                          49.3        60.5             74.4            153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. Xlt. AGRICULTURAL LAND       355.9       417.9            487.3            360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             40.7        44.0             40.8             37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                             56.2        53.5             56.3             59.2                  56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.1         2.5              2.9              3.5                    3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.1         2.0              2.3              2.1                    2.3
URBAN                                  3.7          3.6             4.0              3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.7         40.8            36.2             27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         24.8         17.7            13.3             10.2                    7.5
GXOSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0         2.8              2.3              2.5                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..        181.1          2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..         0.2             27.1             20.4                  44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              93.0        102.0           103.0            107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       89.0        92.0            105.0             98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              41.0        41.0             47.0             56.9                  62.5
OF WHICh ANIMAL AND PULSE            6.0          6.0             6.0             14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         31.2         20.4            13.7             14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFf EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.0        46.7             53.0             57.7                  64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              159.0        126.0           120.0             89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         3.0             12.0             30.1                - 45.9
URBAN                                   ..        10.0             35.0             65.8                  68.0
RURAL                                   ..          1.0             6.0             20.1                  34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   *-         12.0            15.0             17.6                  53.4
URBAN                                   ..        50.0             60.0             71.0                   71.0
RURAL                                   *-         4.0              5.0              4.8                  42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             46778.7     26498.5          13644.4           3857.7                4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..      7672.8           8851.9           6411.8                2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               1364.1       1644.6          1606.0           1132.8                 588.5
URBAN                                251.8          *-            697.3            322.3                 579.6
RURAL                                   ..          ..           3159.0           5600.5                1138.5
ADMlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..             22.4
hOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.4         4.8
URBAN                                  4.9         5.3
RURAL                                  4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          1.5
URBAN                                   ..         1.6
RURAL                                   ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



- 24 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDONESLA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb      ESTIILATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0        78.0              94.0              85.9                   99.8
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0              94.4                  100.6
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              64.5                   98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0         16.0            22.0              38.0/as                 53.5
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              34.67rn                58.4
FEHALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              18.07ia                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)        20.0         22.0             20.0              3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 39.0         29.0            30.0               32.8                   34.2
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.0            17.0              19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.8                   86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.0          2.1              3.5               1.7                   12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0             38.5              35.3                  174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              7.3              3.7                   50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                         ..           ..             17.7              14.6                  106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA         ..           ..              0.8               3.4                    4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34752.5     41034.6          50929.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.9         31.0            29.5              29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   74.8         66.3            59.1              69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.4          9.7            11.8              14.1                   21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.3             35.6              39.7                   40.2
MALE                                      54.2         49.5             50.1              51.5                   49.8
FEMALE                                    20.0         21.6            21.1               23.3                   31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.1                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        33.7/c           23.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..        52.oTc           49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..         6. 8c            6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS           ..         17.37/          14.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..            136.0             134.1                  248.6
RURAL                                     ..          ..            112.0             111.6                  193.7
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..          ..            119.0                ..                  249.8
RURAL                                     ..           ..            98.0                ..                  234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..          ..             28.0              41.7                   21.2
RURAL                                     ..          ..             51.0              51.7                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Income recipients.
May, 1981



- 25-                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DFlttbTlOtt OF SOCIiAL. INDICATORS
hotes: jAlthough the dat  are dean  froII       ,te  gearaily judged the  -ototo e I'eed rliable, in should als  be toted that they IIay tot he inte-
eatittely tomyacahie h         Iat  of the lath, of  -todard1-d defiitioe tedC.ot..p. usd ho differettt.o.ntriee  to toiletI.& the data.  The data arI, tore-
fhls,uctlt1   derh   orer  o  egitode, indicate tren.ds. nd oharaoc-iee  erao aJor differenee be-erootrle
The ref .e.. groups are .11) the  en   Iott   ru   f tho euhiec  ot yad (21 ato-roy group oitb  .o.anhut higher aveag   iotte  thur tha  -tooty grouP
of the sb (o  tcty ett .for"CaptalS                Er.eOl  uotrs            ro  ohers "Mliddia tocome North hfvioa ad Mtiddie  met" Is ohoe   batmues of et e
Icoot-ttlt,ralafiie). i  cba teferece grout data the averges toe population oighted ar irbhet   maca:.  foe eC_h todioutor an                            .-n  only ohet
_ajoricy of the countries       I ineoop bee date fot thar  Wi-dtuto.  Siota  the cnver.ge  of    ottloeetg tha  tdtcstors ,dapr.ds or the e-oiibiitY ot date
a-d is tot ovifor..cou.i.. !inter he roerlsed to  eetegAvese   of ore irdic-r o  to  toe ..C..  Te urrseeol  osefoli  top-rg the  -1-u  of
LAOOD AtOP. (ohooaazodsq.hs.l                                              toytlotlot pop tosyttul bed - totul, utbat , toO  rural - tocolotoot  (total,t.1 K.d 
Total - Tota  sort ae at- comPrisiog 1ed tree and  leed mtare.                                       orbao, ord rural) dtvided by thier  -ep-tni-r rumbhe  ot boepiou1 hadu
Anpcictur-1 - tEtisat  of ogritoltorel erm   use..d teeporarly or P-tmn-t11avtiblo  It poito nedprtvee  gerrt  sohpotiee                                             opiral end re-
(or crps, p-attr. rerk.e  -rd ktiotber geodon  o  to lie  tailor  19h duto.                       hbhiiotiorrtr.    opita a ae  e                      -bi .tm .t pereevtly stAffed
by aniue   r  phyeitotaEo..  blotiishmee   Providieg Pritclpaliy.. rot-
GNP iPE  CAPITA (itS) - Mnt per topita estimaesa  trrr  marketPrC e  ca-                               dial tarar  not :irided.  Rural boeptaley.Chwvr  itida honith
cuisted by so. me .otovereor eohdasPnd    erlhoesIh7--1bst)  19h0,                                   ard medno    arer  rt p-R.aeo    s            Iffd byI phyeiti   (burb
1900. oo   97-an.edll- essar,-ar.   idetfe, err.) ehith ofar. io-retirtrsco
dettradpoiealmed r..og  of madinet feollitieI.  tot stats
fNERGY CONSUMPtTION POt CAPITA - hanu1 c-mopoto. of nomeecielte..tgy itoll                             tics1 purposes urbr hospitals inrids Wife trierliel/ga-ra   hospitois,
andilgilr, petroleum, ororl ge  cod hydr..-,. etoisa  and gsoohsrmi sier-                          an  ro    boptal%  ltoeor1 rural hoepitele and  edoos1 and  -anstiot
rIciy) In kIuem    fca   qlaenper capital iThO, 17,Aed 1979                                       oser.         ipeollted hoeplttal  are1 teidad only under total.
data.                                                                                              pdtsosrrloste  be  - Totel nuehe  af  pm.i.ei.. to or discharges
from ho-pitlsl dtwidad by the rushe of beds.
POtUii.TIONi ANl VItA]. STATISTICi
Toti trotnlh.godyea  (houuns) A.h of July 1; 1ypt. 1970, and 1979                    HOUSING
Other ptortianio  loercrt of total) - Rtitl  of orbo  to total ptpleiol                                   ooshoi  coeltso  a  ro   fIdvdal   b   hr   ttgqatr
differ-o   de.tiot .o. of orb m  aros  soY y  fso       eeable    tdtod their mal  -.aI..  A botder  Iorldger flyormy-st ha irtloded to
sag  -otties; 19h0. 1970, and 197  dat,                                                        h  hosh   od-freeitoi Poo a...
Poroltinr In yea  2000 - Curreoo popuielito proJeorline ars honed    lbSher  f persoes parroo  In all urbue. ae   ualn pedC                                        corvelon to
too   ooioo   yeg   0   e  ed" ter otlo- ty end fertillty rae.dwelIngs,                                       ,: repc lve.    _tslrg     alode  a-smoo  ercu                 o
trojItoloo reremtosr  IInottmvolioy ogres tolIpries of these isres 555m-osttpied pares.,
ilog life eoPeto...y at birth o               iosa hogtom   conty's par ts =ticoeAccees to Cltctrtt C                  nrotof d_osi_tom    -   ,tni. other. aed rurl-
iro, ed tMmalitfe sopecteery soabqICii a. t 71.9 Tets.  The pars-                               C-nvotio...t dsIliege steh sl_otriity to ltisg  q-sts.  as
enters for f-ctilny rinI  ulso have three levels assuming derlire In                            of total,other, end voel dwIlllrgsre-peti-sly.
te   I-tyootiog  to loom  leela          I at femlp plis..teg pertrfe-..
tech co..torr  isdthat . essignd roe ofhoes nine t-binton  of mortality                     EDUiCATIOh
cod rereity trends foe projsrnao   oross.Adto-edtoriaoeto
ttit_ear   Ionlsio-I_nesonoioeary popolation there Is or gPotb et..e                             Primarysoo-ta,mlendfae- Grosrtt    aeadtni
the birtch rain  Is equal to the death  nto, end also  the ege  tfrutorore-                       n           C Iietofal  ae  at eho prImar.y level as P-rAmege. of reepsoniva
matte toosnent.  This Is  thievd ouly sfte :.fsttilty raesdurllns to                              prim-rysholeopopolattnel cormeiy ibcludas children aged h-li
the r_plrm- t leveI of unit net reprd-o  rats, alte  eh gearetito                                 year  bn adjusted toe dft front iegthe or primary eduo.stion; for
of noe   reioe  oef e...coiy.  ma e.teosory popua.tion alas  -o                                    cootris  with onireso  edotatiom   seo mtmy  -mno  lid  paroe..t
estimated ot the basis of the proisone.d :chersoe itelos  f.the popolttir                         slots sum   Wyle are hw- or shov  the   fiiletolae
inth  yea  2000, andoh  nes  f  ee  tffetlity rte t  rePI.. let-..codarY Ishol-totl-asadfml                                                        ped sIabo.-;es-odeey
mooleel                                                                                         ed..ationrs.qairsag   les  ton  year  of opprovd Prsylsrrot
fear statlioon  roralarbit Ia esg.bed - The yaar whet etetlngry poPolationytode    eoa.  oniel,o   ere t                                            r_ieteg nerruriot.. fC or ttl.
sloe hos been Isshd.                                                                              usuall  of 12 to 1yerof a ge; ro.eeapuedmats  -14..e are ga..erely
Pee et. Am. - Kig-year popoleoior persqar  kIl.amtar (ithttre)of                                  VOtnlon= -erolmoet learrer ofasooderi    tositoul lostltotlt
tete1 are;  96hI  1970 sod 1909 data.                                                              inoludo teohmInel, t       tdarial  c,ortbeProrm        htith ...nraee indeod
Per so. ha.wi. teroulur1 lard -Cnad as aho-s furngicitrl.iad                                         atly or as depeectmeo  of asnundery  Leseitoolms
oniro  lghi. 1970 sed 1h7g date.t leahrrtr-ehut.so   utdger - Total erdeto  eerled to
Poplaton   ssfefotue  esrset  -Children  (0-16 y em..), mo,hing-age  (11-                        prgr  nnd secnday invHi  dividd  b   vb                 ftanesith
64 ysare), and reamed (h1I yreso  aver  Ia psroe..eegs.  of mtd-Y-ar popo-                           ctersep`oigines
latoo   ihi  1910. am. 99dt.                                                                   Adut.t..ao  et..a..n)    LiterateC edults (.hs in ned and ovine)
yar populations for 1910-hi, iPhh7i oed 1920- 79.
PoualtOrwbbt  fornte  - ohe   -9 Aul gro-h rates of orher  pop.-                      CO9bSTfPTfM
latior   fr190160-, 196P-11t sod1970-9                                                           anogeCoeIe  thousandnourtm     -  asgs  te   coprsemao
Ctads eloc.h tee   (tee thousand  - eAsul lIve bietbe par rho...god of .id-y.a.                      teReaigls  thee eight psene                   l e ded5  aehulgoo, hosvaos so
,papoleion;lohi 97, i     It ad 1979 data.                                                         militsryvehicla..
Crude bunh  teta(on   to        l- annul deaths par thousands of mid-yea.edohcevr  teen.1 thousad.srlcon                                             1 l  typs  ofreivs fo .rdo
poulti_ol lh,1970,. ad 1979 dat..                                                                 rdattognalpuhliopa  thousand of pupu.taio; sn-ladse
Gross tatreduttior  tt- Av-taS   oubat of daughters I   -es  etli boor Is                            lic..o.ed rcieeIs onaread in yeeve rbmpeitrt    of radio
hsr tuoml reprdodctive yriod if she.neise   toeno   age-specific  fe-                             sets  -e is effect; data fee Cmome  year. may st  be ...P...his etect
tility raes  uual  f lv-ysav aeragn  endlg to 19h0, 1970, and 1979.                               mast. touatnssn 1iiehe   Iftteasig.
resultnlaucne - hccsoors. atnuniI tho.snnd)t- A-nn  onmhet of ...cepoots              TV Caceve       I  tnr  hoseud sosolto) -'R         reeies      Io hb.d..   tt
of P'hcnt        eie  ondar ausPices of nainos  family p.isnin  Prog.a.                         gnP;ipulc  e  theuoed pupuGletic;T en'edIalIoseed TV  eavt
fomily PIL.on,n-OeU.    fore o f maCrind eme    Pmrtortg  of earid                                   In  -tuarin  end to Ye.re eh-nt eesieof TV sets ese in effect.
wome ofold-bherg  ge(15-446 yenr( eho use hieth-contol drolte. to                             eeee   iolnu   reeeoe  eeltol-Oosteaeaete
all maried  -oo  In asm  ago groon.                                                               c tlerW of "daily  genera  itatese  etwuW", dsP oled neaIteriodloel
pbioistine doorod pnItenly toC        neiggeea         -nw.It ie  oteidered
PFWl AND ftfITtION                                                                                     to he "deily" if It epp..re at I..e t ear time-        kms.
mAd- of fodPouru  a  Cpt,lh~llh  - ledma of par onptIns.on..l                                     Cieem  A.enta atsdno   a    nt  rtTer-bsd or the tebano
f  fioilT oi       t    ndtsslonutin               lnidee seed and f. seAso                 tiohots sold durte  the ysee. molding             ..Leso.. to driv-to cinema
Is 00 oslsedur year basia.  Coemdiotei tra    petmay gods (e.g. sagett...                         and mobile  -mit..
insteadrfsgv  whchar   dibie end .oeein nutrients  (e.gS. cnft. feod
tse non  ealdd).  Aggregate pr0odction of each  -ntnry is hosed c                             lAbR FifCE
oltinsl evaag  produtIr pros weights; 1961-h5, 1970, and 1979 date.                             Tetal labor. tort ditbos= a   - too          -1iall  Aciva parsons, inoldlog
Pa   eet  srly  folcn   rr of       of reuireemee  - Camputed from                          are   Cfre  an uI       mlo    hot saladiag hensaiv-. etudene,t.,I
-.eoSy oqivalont of em fo.         splesanlei   n tooey Parop..cvru  populaion'e  ell agai.  batfimitlone Is venous  .. toutIe ens..
ptdy.?   Available  -ornita  competes domeeic Producoton  tpoItte lees                       uctoompers.bl.  19h0, 1970 end toys data.
taoo,n   hlouge  in etoo.  Pet euppline enlsaimal feed, seeds,                        feaeCorso     tnelho   ura                         ......og  of total labor fonr..
qoonniissuen   tn fod  roceseing. and iremitderioto   teur-Anoltore  eact) - Leho,favo  isOemn,foety,hrin    n
ante sore  etimerad b  PAP hesa   topyslologIirul enteds for n-1s .,ti-                 ftehing as pe-trgeof~ tota  labor ferns; 1960  19Th0and 1970 dare.
vIty en    rith  Inealen          IC _ptietotWe.. trt_r., body noighet    g                  Ioduetrvfafet  - L.ho  foreim             mnig toarnobe             _eferturiog
sod sen distrihuclue of populsOtion  and a11imin    it pur-t for eat.sotd altr,icity. eater end gee As purCetage of total lahor frce.; 1960,
household leve; lyhi-tI,1970, sod 19y7 det.-                                             1910 sed 1979 decs.
te   atosspl   CfpoenIeo   e  dayI rti   nte   f per capita                                 tartoinalt  ae  eronl     rti  ml, ,and fsmae- PnreitipunIIn  o
eat supply of fond Per day.  Pet supl  of fend is ds lead me sh-e   go-                         atiiypas   e  t            tda  totl  male  an I fats1  lho  focea
quers_te  for al  ourria   stblished by USDtA p-nids foe elise                                  preag e o  total, mala Wedfeal  pupuintineof al  sgeeresym-oti-eiy;
oll1nero  of it gram  of  ota  rrcntr P.' day ned 20 gram   of ne          Zled                 19gb, 19?0, ond 1979 date.  Th..o are base.d or fLO's p-rtiripetio   ears.
pulse protein, of which 10 gnom  shold he asiani    one   Theme stan-                             _efl1antingag-e   -trerrr  of n   pupulabon. sod long tim  tree."            A
rde era lone  then those of 75 gram   of total pretnis sad 13 gr-a  of                          te  estimtssefo    nioiaet
soima!rti  ase eeS. for the enld,. proasd by  Agi  the Third                                  preeceree              em      -tbain ofppueoradr1nd6)eder
Wol   odOre;1961_65, 1970 erA  1977 data,                                            totero    ao   oc.&
Paront~   rotinsulvfrom sn      oitd pulse - Prntmln apply of food de-
rited from  ..JI.l ond pulses In grams per da-y  1961-05, 1970 end 1977 deta.               INCOIE DISTRIBlbIONt
Child (case 1-0)banairt is. free thousan) - Annua  deahs per tha....rd in                                      I  Peclea yi-at  Irc-m (botb In cash ean  kind) - Recvnva  by vich-s
tries dete derived from  litfa tables; l9h0, 1970 and 179 data.                                   of boupae..bt20ed                                                      40de..
HEALTH                                                                                            POVRRTTY TARGET centreP
LIfe 1 te ctanot gt birth lonrs  -tAvrg  nnmher. of year  of life raining                         The .fllliree. siai   rvn    prsaaemsu    of Povetylevls
atbrh 9h0, 170 end 1;;7h dt.ed  ho-Id be interreted with conIdera.bletni.
Infuat ecltvtns(artoo-di - A-eul deathe of  nfant. under one y-c                                  isoistad.abenltr Povert  lero             L-vlfI Cerret)     ro   n   ua 
ofag  par hatnon            bho hi.b.                                                             Aslt   oet   eoslvli  hnb                          leve   -ee    hch a4 miImal
Atoe toht   nn   nteea   tnltin-ttl,hn   n   ue                                                      euIICtto_al  adqot          dIa pIneeeetatefedeq ieshAe  e on-
bee of pays(ttlf         obn  nod. rura If     h  eaomblesose  to safec                                                                                   1  .1
::tl:, -pPI, 1,1:,.l.d.. t   C.A  -tcletedbainiv  Poert lony-oya  ft9 er t-ttt   -urhn a   ruall
ma tsr eth as thanfrom protcted borealee, sprngs, erA   oeliary sils) as uin,  relaive puvep             y -, oety   evel is 0.-third  o  nvevngf   ee oI yi'
fonan  rsadyost loruted  -Cnot.mr  then 200 meerte   a bo..o may be                       leeCihajamm    o   Ighres   flvn    eahnaea
considered ne  eing with in  ose~hir e:oee  of. ththus.I  rualsen.                    tt td Penoletiontesle   AbelePortInmaevl  ern)-ubn
I.eoblacs   mud inni  t thth.           husIt  o            Iser   f the houeol        d              Crra  -  er    f Puputiee  (ehan sad rura) ehe.n   aslt
do ptr hove to sood I disproportiona.te Pars of the fey it fetohiag the                           Poor.
Acesto lo.ctta Di ..... I .reroet ofon          IIn- totl. uru.and rurl -
gNsher of people (CtotL, upban  endrual  serond by  nr     Ispsla
P...eengee of thein esesoiv   ppatt- P.        .   errets diepusal may loldo
the collectio  en. d dispt...l, nIth or nitbo-t toma-tent  of teas  -ort                                                                 coou   el  ollotsnoao
end vests-wter by  rtrhm            ysta  or the use of pit privies nod stint                                                      r     t  Anlyaead  Pnvje1Cnte tapetioma
Iar inatllutio-s                                                                                                                                        Fay19
c'plattoc ea  Ph,siris-    tooalrditudeld by  eu   f   heticto  physi-
pln    ulified fre  I mditaL enbuol eItuiverity level
PPoplation  .  N.rC.ring Pss     -populatio  divie  hpine   atpnoine
mate sod tae   rd_ renrss  reonIrsi enrse  so   sleetane



-26-                                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                   Annual growth rate (Z)
(million US$ at                             (at constant 1973 prices)
current prices)                    Actual                                  Projected
Indicator                            1979            1975   1976   1977   1978  1979    19B0   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         49,211            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.8    4.9    7.1    7.2    7.3    7.3    7.4    7.4
Agriculture                     14,678           0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    2.2    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Industry                        16,003           5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Services                        18.531          10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5    8.5
Consumption                       34,686            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    5.8   12.4    8.7    7.8    8.1    7.6    6.8
Gross investment                  11,103           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    5.6   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0   12.0
Exports of GNFS                   14,788           -9.7   12.5   22.4    0.1    8.9   -2.8    5.6    8.7    9.1    0.0    2.1
Imports of GNFS                   11,366            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   10.6  10.1    13.1   14.6   15.4    2.6    5.6
Gross national savings            12,400         -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   43.3   19.3    7.2    9.6    9.0    7.4   12.3
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 - 100)                           166    190    214    232    309    368    423    473    519    569    621
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    625    625    625    625    625
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                          Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices) lb                                (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990         1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9          8.4         6.9         7.3         8.2
Agriculture                  54     47      32      29      24     19         2.7           4.1         3.4         3.5         3.5
Industry                    14      18      34     33      36      41         5.2          12.0         9.1         9.0        11.2
Services                    32      35      35      38     40      40         4.8          9.7          8.4         8.5         8.0
Consumption                 91      89      79      74     76      77         4.1          8.4          8.3         7.7         8.7
Gross investment              8     14      20      24     29      31         4.8          18.3        10.8        12.0        10.0
Exports of GNFS              13     13      23      33     29      23         3.6          9.2          8.7         5.3         3.3
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -30    -34    -32             3.2         22.1         14.0        10.0         6.8
Gross national savings       8       9      17      24     25      22         6.1         23.1         19.3         9.5         5.9
As Z of GDP
1960           1970            1975           1979
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                                           11.7            10.1           10.5           20.6
Current expenditures                                                       14.0            8.4             9.3           12.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3           +1.6            +7.1           +8.1
Capital expenditure                                                         n.a.           5.0            10.7           12.4
Foreign financing                                                           0.2            3.5             3.7            4.3
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                               4.5              7.6                 6.3             7.7              8.1
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (2)                    2.4              5.1                 3.9             5.3              5.7
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)                2.9             16.0                15.0            11.0             10.7
ICOR                                                     2.2              2.2                 3.4             3.5              3.7
Marginal savings rate                                    0.30             0.48                0.68            0.36             0.24
Import elasticity                                        1.2              2.8                 0.7             1.4              0.8
/a At market prices.
7b  Projected years at constant prices.  Owing to favorable terms of trade developments the resource gap's share of GDP at
current prices is significantly less than at constant prices.
/c Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



ANNEX I
-27                                                 Page 5 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$365 (1979)
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                        Projected
Indicator                         1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
Exports of goods and services              7,425   9,384  11,056  11,650  17,797  23,320  27,624  33,600  40,645  49,391  79,726
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            7,283   9,213  10,861  11,353  17,488  22,414  26,375  31,967  38,555  46,430  75,623
Imports of goods and services             -8,279 -10,186 -11,746 -12,785 -15,813 -20,407 -24,862 -30,398 -37,365 -46,967 -88,148
Of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.          -7,362  -8,807 -10,150 -10,907 -13,579 -17,569 -21,769 -27,028 -33,573 -42,230 -79,790
Net transfers                                 75       61       66       46       52      76      100       50       50       50       50
Current account balance                     -779    -741    -624  -1,109   2,046   2,989   2,862   3,252   3,329   2,473  -8,372
Private direct investment                    454      287      285      271     217      170      170      200      250      300     500
MLT Loans (net) lb                         1,800   1,895   1,131        660      604   1,768   1,788   1,857   1,579   1,273   3,316
Official - source (net)                    514      836      752     771      515   1,128   1,644   1,949   1,912   1,646          947
Private  - source (net)                  1,287   1,059       379    -110       89      640      144      -92    -333    -373   2,391
Other capital                             -1,839    -442    -140        888  -1,075  -2,417  -2,204  -1,511  -1,267    -738   1,368
Change in reserves                           364  -1,001    -651    -708  -1,690  -2,510  -2,616  -3,798  -3,892  -3,308   3,188
Net official reserves                        556   1,557   2,208   2,916   4,606   7,116   9,732  13,530  17,422  23,981  25,991
Reserves as months imports                   0.8      1.8      2.3      2.7     3.5      4.2      4.7      5.3      5.6     6.1      3.5
Memorandum Items
Net exports of goods and
services of the oil sector            3,138   3,710   4,445   4,010   6,974  10,577  12,295  12,466  16,523  20,481  27,029
Net foreign assets of the
banking system                           556   1,557   2,623   3,372   6,906  11,078  15,900  21,297  26,489  35,209  35,885
Total reserves /c as months imports    0.8          1.8      2.7     3.2      5.2      6.5      7.7      8.4     8.5      9.0      4.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /b
Gross Disbursements                      2,152     2,332   1,956   1,641   1,945   2,758
Concessional Loans                         503      488     442      494      445      968
DAC                                     378      365      354      429      405      830
OPEC                                       -        -      27       29        5       22
IDA                                     107       99       49       29       30       56
Other                                     18      23       12        6        6       59
Nonconcessional Loans                    1,649   1,844   1,514   1,148   1,501   1,790
Official export credits                   15     267      221      305       88      111
IBRD                                      57     157      191      168      199      355
Other multilateral                         3       11      16       12       46      100
Private - source                      1,574   1,409   1,086        663   1,168   1,223
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d    8,014  10018  11,671  13,128  13,326  15,040
Official - source                   5,006   5,913   7,077   8,434   8,512   9,657
Private  - source                   3,008   4,105   4,594   4,694   4,814   5,383
Undisbursed debt                      3,703   4,533   4,481   5,832   7,514   8,029
Debt Service
Total service payments                  517      775   1,266   1,463   2,107   1,804
Interest                              165      318      441      485      772     815
Payments as % exports of goods
& services /e                         7.0      8.0    11.5    12.6    11.8        7.7
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                     8.3      7.5      6.3      7.3      6.6      8.8
Official - source                       6.5      7.0      5.5      4.7      4.9      5.5
Private  - source                       9.3      8.1      8.6    10.8       8.9    13.5
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                12.7    14.9    20.5    21.2    19.9    18.1
Official - source                      21.3    20.2    23.9    30.1    25.7    23.5
Private  - source                       8.1      8.3    10.4       9.3    11.4    10.3
As % of debt outstanding at end of 1979
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                        30.2
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                       64.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                        4.0
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
/b  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
/c  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7   At end of period.
7-e Oil exports treated on gross basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
August 11, 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 28 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Eight Loans and twenty-nine Credits fully disbursed   426.51  458.43             -
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        0.63
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.78
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        3.51
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        3.51
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        8.74
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        0.95
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        3.99
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        0.66
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       10.67
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       10.45
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       20.37
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       46.56
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.01
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       51.51
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       11.34
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                     45.00       42.82
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                45.00       42.03
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                   42.00       41.64
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                       30.00       29.95
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 1.59
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                21.02
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                 6.81
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 5.49
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                42.58
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                11.98
1250     1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                16.35
1259     1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                 5.96
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                 5.63
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                11.22
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.00                     9.64
1336     1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                 9.09
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                12.20
1363     1977   Second PDFCI                               15.00                 1.48



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 28 page.
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations,
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA   Undisburs,;
1365    1977   Sixth Power                                116.00             38.8"
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00               8.9,
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00              12.66
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                           63.00             44.17
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                            35.00             15.08
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    1.49
1472    1977   Second Population                           24.50             15.42
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.00               8.34
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I          65.00             38.76
1513    1978   Seventh Power                               94.00             58.03
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                           140.00            125.47
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                         31.00             24.59
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                  62.36
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          77.00             62.39
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                     54.00             42.97
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control           50.00             44.33
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                42.00             39.38
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                              123.20            109.69
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                              50.00             30.35
1707    1979   Transmigration II                           90.00             90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                               175.00            154.07
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         36.00             34.31
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III           99.00             84.43
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00            113.91
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV            42.00             40.81
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                   35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                    35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                        253.00            245.16
1898    1981   S'holder Coconut Dev. Project               46.00             46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project              45.00             45.00
1950    1981   Tenth Power Project                        250.00            250.00
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation Project                   22.00             22.00
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development Project            43.00             43.00
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V           161.00            161.00
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.00                 106.00
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway /1                 85.00             85.00
/1  Not yet effective



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 28 pages
US$ million
Loan!                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,729.00  931.80
less cancellations                            -23.13   -1.62
Total                                         3,705.87  930.18
of which has been repaid                      -82.63   -2.65
Total now outstanding                         3,623.24  927.53
Amount sold to third party            28.24
Amount repaid by third party         -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3622.21  927.53
Total undisbursed                             2,134.59  346.03   2,480.62
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 28 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5      1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 73.7       3.4       77.1
Total held by IFC                                   41.1      14.3       55.4
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   63.1           0.9       64.0



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 28 pages
C. STATIJS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of September 30, 1981
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995 and 1958)
Other Agriculture Production (358, 400, 480, 1318,                          9-13
1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984, 1898 and 2007)
Agriculture Support Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)               13-14
Rural Development (946)                                                     14
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                        16-18
Energy (1259, 1365, 1513, 1708, 1872 and 1950)                               18-20
Industrial Development and Finance
Industrial Estates (428)                                                    21
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                         21
Population and Nutrition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                             22
Nutrition (1373)                                                            23
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                      24
Transportation
Highways (1236, 1696 and 2049)                                             24-25
Marine Transport (1250)                                                     25
Ports (1337)                                                                26
Tourism (479)                                                                 26
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      26-27
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                  28
/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 6 of 28 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion by four years. All major contracts
for civil works have been awarded, and the last of these is expected to
be completed by mid-1984. The total project cost is currently estimated
to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1982, the new closing date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1985,
about four years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to a
delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of about two years due to delayed land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the constant postponement of
drainage works in both Rentang and Cerebon subprojects due to overall budget
constraints imposed by the GOI on the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development annual budget during the last three years. Disbursements are
currently about 73% of the appraisal estimate. It is possible that because
of the continuing delays in this project that the closing date will have to
be postponed.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
credits and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 85,000 ha have been completed and the balance will be
completed by the end of 1981. The construction of North Sadang has suffered
a delay of about three years due to design revisions and late award of
contracts. All of the remaining works of the project will be completed by
July 1983. Disbursements are currently 25% behind the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System serving an area of about 75,000 ha in Stage I including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in



- 34 -                      ANNEX II
Page 7 of 28 pages
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in the Ciujung subproject. The Madiun
Irrigation and pilot ground water scheme components have made satisfactory
progress and are expected to be completed by the end of 1983.  The Ciujung
drainage component has suffered the most delay caused by the late completion
of feasibility studies and inaccurate maps and some difficulties with land
acquisition. Disbursements are currently about 75% behind the appraisal
estimate largely due to initial delays but are expected to improve in 1982
when all of the contracts for the Ciujung drainage component will be under
implementation.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project consists of three components: (a) the Sedeku Irriga-
tion and Drainage Subproject; (b) the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation Project;
and (c) various studies and investigations. Progress on these components is
as follows: (a) consequent on GOI's decision not to construct the Jragung
Dam, the down river drainage works and designs are being reviewed. Delay in
completion is currently estimated to be about three years; (b) all the
contracts of the Stage I area are awarded and the project is estimated to be
completed by mid-1982, a delay of about one year. Problems of land clearing
and land shaping on about 3,000 ha to convert to sawahs (wet rice fields) are
unresolved and might delay early benefits.  The Stage II area was appraised by
the Bank in September 1980 and due to a low economic rate of return it was not
recommended for further Bank consideration; and (c) feasibility studies of ten
systems have been completed. Three projects were recommended for Bank
assistance under the proposed sixteenth irrigation project, two were financed
by KfW and one is proposed to be financed by the Asian Development Bank.
Three ongoing projects would be completed fully by GOI financing.  Disburse-
ments are at about 58% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvements of about
34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvements of about 19,900 ha
of Way Seputih; (c) improvements and expansion of about 63,100 ha of Way
Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of two dams
associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and Gumbasa irriga-
tion projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and also studies of
two dams in the Kali Progo project area, extension of irrigation to Bekri,
West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung Province. The Kali Progo
project is behind schedule by 12 months whereas the Way Seuptih and Way
Sekampung projects have slipped further and are behind schedule by 24 months.
The status of down river works of the latter two irrigation systems,
associated with the two dams, was reviewed by the Bank in April/May 1981 and
the GOI was informed that the rehabilitation and extension of irrigation
systems would only be justified if the two dams are built; alternatively the
program under the current project has to be curtailed.  Subject to resolving
the issue within six months and if there are no slippages, the current



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 28 pages
estimated completion is December 1985; a delay of two years. Disbursements
are currently 33% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in June 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hydrologic
Measurement Program has been delayed by about 2-1/2 years due to a setback in
the program for procurement of equipment and selection of sites for gauging
stations. Studies for a master plan for the development of the Cimanuk River
Basin have been completed and a final report has been submitted to the Bank.
Detailed designs of flood control works of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and
Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and construction is proceeding under
Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation conditions at the dam site and
GOI's decision not to construct large dams on Java this component is
indefinitely postponed and it is proposed that these funds be utilized for
feasibility studies of Glapan Barrage and Tuntang River and upgrading of
irrigation systems. Disbursements are about 39% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 103,731 ha has been completed and
the balance of the area would be covered in two fiscal years 81/82 and
82/83. The Cisedane drainage works have been delayed; two small contracts of
about $2 million were awarded in January-February 1981, and are about 30-40%
completed. Tenders for three major contracts, aggregate $30.4 million,
received in March-April 1981, are expected to be awarded in November 1981.
Right-of-way acquisition is also behind schedule. This subproject is
currently estimated to be completed by March 1985, a delay of two years over
appraisal estimate. All studies are expected to be completed by July 1982.
Disbursements are about 35% of the appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main'components of the projects are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good and satisfactory progress has
been made on the civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected
to be completed by the end of 1983. Disbursements are currently about 50%
behind the appraisal estimate largely due to initial delays and lately due to
the late award of contracts caused by the review required by the GOI-s
procurement committee.



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9 of 28 pages
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effeative Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabilita-
tion of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of Madiun irrigation
systems serving about 65,000 ha area of Stage II and tertiary development
serving 120,000 ha in the Pemali Comal and Pekalen Sampean Sub-projects. The
project is in the initial stages of mobilization for the Serang River. Works
in Madiun area and tertiary development are progressing well ahead of
schedule. Consultants contracts are being finalized.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: (a) the completion of the Kosinggolan
irrigation system on about 5,500 ha and construction of the new Toraut
irrigation system on about 6,600 ha; (b) catchment protection and a nature
reserve on an area of about 100,000 ha; (c) institutional support to the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) through consultancy
services and training; (d) strengthening of mapping capabilities; and (e)
studies and investigations of four irrigation systems. A contract for the
construction of the Toraut headworks and the first two kilometers of the main
canal commenced in early 1981 and two major contracts are programmed for award
in FY81/82. A start has yet to be made on the nature reserve component by the
appointment of personnel and the construction of the headquarters.
Consultants for the studies and institutional support of the DGWRD have been
appointed. The project is currently about 6-8 months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation Project: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This loan was declared effective on July 9, 1981. The project
assists GOI's effort to reclaim and settle swamps by implementing a 9,000 ha
swamp reclamation and settlement project at Karang Agung, South Sumatra. In
addition to physical works, the project comprises the preparation of future
swamp investments, an ecological impact study, an investigation of groundwater
for drinking and project monitoring.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 358 North. Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 28 pages
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. The project is making a substantial contribution to
the smallholder tea industry with over 7,000 participants (appraisal forecast
7,700); five private tea estates (four factories) making fair to excellent
progress; one of two new major tea factories to be built; and 16,000
smallholders helped by excellent village and research institute training.
However, disbursements continue to be behind target due to a combination of
early sluggish progress in implementation combined with continued delays that
occur between BRI branch disbursements and submission of applications for
withdrawal.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been ordered
and are due to be delivered late 1981. The quality of fishpond lending by
Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; loan
arrears worsened statistically since mid-1980 although they improved
slightly in the first quarter of 1981. Coverage is much less than appraisal
forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but
inflation and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons. The skipjack tuna enterprise has improved markedly following a
management change, and catches could improve still further. Although not
a profitable enterprise, it is expected to improve in FY81/82.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although the project is still about 2 years behind schedule, it has
progressed considerably since July 1980. To date about 4,300 families have
been settled in Baturaja, which is 95% of the target. About 200 water
supply reservoirs have been built at Baturaja. The pasture development
program is well established and 4,800 cattle have been distributed. Rubber
development at Baturaja is behind schedule and 1,900 ha need to be planted in
1981/82 to complete the program. The cropping system trials continue to
progress satisfactorily. Disbursements have now reached 62% of appraisal
estimates.



-38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to:  (a) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (b) weak overall project organization and
management; and (c) delays in contractor's and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The nucleus estates have planted about 7,000 ha of rubber for
smallholders, constructed about 1,400 settler houses and settled about 850
families. In their own estates, the nucleus estates have rehabilitated 18,400
ha of rubber; planted 7,200 ha of rubber; 3,300 ha of coconuts, and 5,600 ha
of oil palm and are about to complete construction of three rubber
factories and one palm oil mill. Start-up delays are, however, unlikely
to be made up, and the loan closing date may have to be extended at some
future date.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start in 1979 due to labor shortage, budgetary cons-
traints and procurement difficulties, good progress was achieved in the last
twelve months. Further improvement is expected in projecL implementation.
All major project components are, therefore, expected to be completed as
originally planned, except the rubber replanting component in Jambi Province,
which has run into unexpected difficulties due to the reluctance of small-
holders to participate in the replanting scheme.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 recently completed settler houses were fully
occupied in April 1981. A PNP Estate being upgraded under the project is to
take over responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component
under NES I (1499-IND) in 1982 from another PTP which has no estate in that
area.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After an initial delay due to lack of maps the project's small-
holder development component is off to a good start and is expected to be on
schedule by 1982. The Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V (Loan 2007-IND)
start-up component has progressed well and, largely because of this, the
FY81/82 development targets are likely to be achieved in the major compo-
nent supervised. Other project components are approximately on schedule.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project continues to make satisfactory progress, but at a pace
somewhat slower than envisaged at appraisal. The shortage of vehicles and
suitable access road is impeding project implementation.  It is anticipated
that the planting program for 1981/82 (about 6,000 ha) will be substantially
achieved. Disbursement in FY82 are expected to be on target at US$7 million.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of
delayed establishment of the project entity and late release of funds. There
are no major problems with the project at this stage and the planting
and rehabilitation targets set for June 1981 should exceed appraisal
estimates by approximately 50%.



- 40-                     ANNEX II
Page 13 of 28 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
Smallholder development program to establish 53,000 ha of tree
crops (rubber, oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West
Java, West Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as
implementing agents.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress continues. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development, civil works in Pangragajian, Baruajak and
Margahayu (all highland vegetable) have been completed, while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I and II rice and
palawija crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of laborers and delay in
procurement. Civil works are expected to be completed in Sungei Putih,
Sembawa and Sukamandi (Phase I) by July 1981 and in Sukamandi (Phase II) by
December 1981. Most of the field and workshop equipment, furniture and
vehicles has been received. A contract has been awarded for laboratory
equipment and chemicals for Margahayu and bids for the same for Sungei Putih
and Sembawa are being evaluated. The fellowship program is continuing
satisfactorily. Under the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and
Extension, all equipment, furniture and vehicles have been received and
distributed to ten completed agricultural information centers (AICs).
Preparation of tender documents for two additional AICs at Aceh and Ambon
is completed. Extension materials are being produced and distributed from
AICs. Disbursements under the project are improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit is functioning at full strength at the
senior level, four other positions are part-time staff. Over 90% of field
extension workers have been appointed, while appointments of subject-matter
specialists have exceeded target. However, there is an imbalance in that
appointments in the Other Islands is comparatively lower than in Java. Of the
projected civil works program of 64% of the new Rural Extension Centers have
been constructed and 80% rehabilitated. The entire program is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1981. Procurement of vehicles, equipment and
furniture and the training program, both inservices and overseas, are
progressing satisfactorily.



- 41 -                       ANNEX II
Page 14 of 28 pages
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of the national program for
strengthening extension services covering transmigration areas, estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries, soil conservation activities in addition to food
crops in 26 provinces. All six Assistant Directors are in position, one
Assistant Director, one Divisional Chief, and two Sectional Heads are working
on part-time basis, the rest being on full-time basis. 57 new Rural Extension
Centers (RECs) have been constructed and 31 renovated; 103 jeeps have been
procured against the target of 96 during 1980/81. It is proposed to complete
the construction and renovation of all RECs during 1980/81. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for planned civil works (procurement of
64 jeeps and provincial and village equipment package), inservice training of
791 field extension workers, 120 extension subject matter specialists and
overseas fellowships during 1981/82.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040) _illion Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops.
A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of directors for the Central
Research Institutes and Research Institutes and Centers already approved by
the Minister of Agriculture, became effective in March 1981. The project
secretary and one head of office are yet to be appointed.  Of civil works at
six locations planned for 1980/81, four have been tendered and a contract for
one awarded. Civil works at twelve locations have been programmed for
1981/82. Fifty candidates for long term local fellowships have been
selected. A consulting firm for technical assistance is expected to be
appointed in July 1981.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Project implementation continues to run behind schedule, but staff
development and collection/analysis of basic data have made good progress,
and physical construction and field operations within the agricultural
component show encouraging advances, despite adverse conditions (protracted
nonpayment of project staff salaries because of late release of funds and
unavailability of transportation). However, an assurance given by the
Provincial Government to bridge any financing gaps for payment of staff
salaries, due to belated arrival of project funds, from its own budget,



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 28 pages
should put staff remuneration on a more regular schedule.  The expeditious
procurement of project vehicles, the absence of which is more acutely felt
as field operations grew in number and scope, remains a major concern.
Project completion is presently expected for mid-1987, implying a delay of
about nine months.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia-s (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP. Despite
start-up difficulties, BI has now established and staffed all project
management units. The three field units in Central Java, East Java, and West
Sumatra are developing new lending approaches and assisting handling banks in
project promotion and preparation. The training and studies components of the
project are progressing satisfactorily. On the whole, progress under this
project (SEDP I) has been satisfactory. The credit component of the project
has been fully disbursed, but the technical assistance component will not be
fully disbursed for two years. The undisbursed proceeds of this credit are
being used for technical assistance to the Ministry of Industry. The closing
date has been postponed to enable disbursements for the technical assistance
component to be made.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training
in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management information
systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy services,
the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following extension
of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it is
rapidly catching up.
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I (Credit 785-IND) this
project would be expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small
Investment (KIK)/Small Permanent working Capital Credit (KMKP) program has
been in operation since 1974. In addition to credit and technical assistance
to the banking system, the project provides for the strengthening of



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 28 pages
nonfinancial support services for small scale enterprises (SSEs) by the
Ministry of Industry. This is being financed by $1 million from the proceeds
of this loan and the undisbursed credit proceeds of SEDP I (Credit 785-IND).
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387  Third Education:  $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Textbook distribution to
schools continues to pose problems and quality control of textbooks cannot
be maintained by the present number and quality of staff. Printing of
Grade 5 texts will start soon and the Project Implementing Unit has been
asked to take steps to ensure an adequate supply of paper for production
of Grade 6 texts as well as reprinting of other texts. Project costs have
increased due to the increased scope of the project and inflation since 1973.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit is helping to finance: (a) the establishment of a
technical Education Development Center (TEDC), six polytechnics and four
accountancy development centers (ADCs); (b) related technical assistance and
associated studies - as required to meet the project's objectives of:
(i) establishing a new system for training engineering technicians;
(ii) improving accountancy training; and (iii) strengthening educational
planning and management. Implementation of physical components is being
initiated somewhat behind appraisal schedule but is progressing well and
should be completed by July 1982, well before the closing date.
Implementation of technical assistance is progressing on schedule for the TEDC
and the polytechnics, but lags about 16 months behind schedule for the ADCs.
Five studies financed under the project are also behind schedule, in some
instances by as much as 24 months. The total project cost is close to
appraisal estimate and disbursements exceed appraisal forecasts.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing teaching
training colleges (FKITs) and four new centralized workshops for technical



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 28 pages
training (TTCs) for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers (VTCs), an existing instructor training center and
25 mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country s
principal civil service training institution.  In the MEC subproject
construction of all institutions has been completed and all are in use though
operating under some difficulties since about half of their equipment needs
have still to be received. The MOM and LAN subprojects are progressing about
two and a half and three years behind schedule respectively and the Closing
Date has consequently been extended by two years. Delays have been
occasioned, initially, by slow site acquisition and, subsequently, by belated
release of funds and prolonged consideration of claims for the adjustment of
contract prices to compensate for the 1978 devaluation of the Rupiah. The
underlying cause has been weak management. The total project cost is likely
to exceed the appraisal estimate by about 50% in local currency terms but only
slightly (perhaps 3%) in terms of US$ equivalent (due to the change in the
exchange rate during implementation). The rate of disbursement is improving.
Adequate steps are being taken to staff new institutions as they are
commissioned and a national skill standards system is being developed.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 36% of civil
works have been completed. Phase I is 95% completed. Phase II is
approximately 75% completed. Tendering for the third and final phase has
begun and construction is expected to be finished in April 1982. Furniture
is being supplied to completed buildings according to schedule. Equipment
procurement is about one year behind schedule. The first cycle began
in July 1981 and will finish in mid-1982. Four hundred administrators are
being trained and will conduct local seminars. Project studies are to be
completed mid-1981. While disbursements are currently only 31% of appraisal
estimates, it is expected that they will accelerate considerably during
the coming months. Despite earlier delays and the low disbursement
level, the project is expected to be completed as planned.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of the
six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, five have
been completed. Construction at the remaining two centers is 50% completed;



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 28 pages
both centers will be ready by August, 1981. All furniture and equipment have
been ordered; 80% is already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this
year. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets,
production and distribution of pretested learning materials is accelerating.
The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually
replacing foreign consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this
year and are expected to reach 90% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. Good
progress continues to be made. Although some slippage has developed in the
physical implementation, it is not yet serious. Costs are tending to rise.
The project also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation; this technical assistance has
started, and fellowship utilization is up to schedule.  Efforts to redress
a shortage of teachers outside Java are making steady progress. Through its
national schools, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Exten-
sion is having significant impact on improving the efficiency of regional
and private schools, as planned. Little progress has been made on evaluation,
tracer or manpower studies; specialist assistance is expected to stimulate
these activities.
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan was declared effective on January 22, 1981. The project
is the first phase of a long-term university development program. Its main
objectives are to increase the output of high level manpower in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business
administration and accountancy), improve the quality of university education
in these four fields, and strengthen the management of the overall university
system.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily to
completion. Disbursement targets for FY81 were substantially (98%) met and
the loan is expected to be drawn down within the extended closing date
(December 1981), six months later than scheduled at appraisal. Installation
of 80% of medium voltage (20 kV) cables and 50% of the 20 kV overhead lines
has been completed. This represents satisfactory progress as the scope of



- 46                              ANNEX II
Page 19 of 28 pages
these items of the project was considerably increased as a result of
favorable prices obtained during bidding. Progress on construction of the
low voltage networks has been slow (about 40%) but it has been programmed to
complete the rest of this work by March 1982. Construction of the project
should be substantially completed by mid-1982.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction work on the project is reaching its final stage. The
slow performance of the electrical and mechanical contractor has delayed
progress on construction and slowed down disbursements, as the main
expenditure now is on this item of work. Firing of the boiler for Unit 4
has been delayed; steam admission will also be delayed, but it is expected
that the unit will be in commercial operation during the latter half of 1981.
Unit 5 is expected to be commissioned by end-1981. There are no other
problems of significance at the power station. There is concern, however,
that the 150 kV ring around Jakarta (not Bank-assisted) will not be
strengthened in time to run the power station at its full capacity (700 mW),
although the electricity authority (PLN) is making a concerted effort to
complete ongoing work on the transmission lines and substations involved.
The delay in commissioning of Units 4 and 5 is estimated at about nine months
and six months, respectively.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. The latest cost estimate update indicates that a
further saving will be realized compared to appraisal estimate. Subsequently
therefore, the Bank has agreed to the inclusion of the following additional
studies in the scope of the project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable
feasibility; (b) optimization of location of future thermal plants: (c)
power sector management information system design; and (d) energy pricing
study. Construction work at the site has been delayed by the need to devise
a new method of pile driving to avoid soil displacement. This work has now
been completed and installation of the main plant resumed. The boiler has
been received at site and is under erection. The turbo generator is expected
to be received during the latter part of 1981. Although work of the civil
works of the substations and associated transmission lines has been delayed,
it is progressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the Turan
coal-fired thermal power station site in East Java has progressed to the
point of selection of a site for detailed investigations; these are in
progress. Contracts for the additional five studies mentioned above have not
been signed, but proposals for (a) and (c) have been received and are being
evaluated.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is now about eight months behind schedule due to
(a) slow progress of work by the piling contractor in site improvement;
(b) delay in finalizing various critical contracts; and (c) delay in final-
izing designs and tender documents for the marine works. The most signifi-
cant contributory factor in the delays is the cumbersome procedures for
evaluating bids and approval of contracts that have been introduced as a
result of Presidential Decrees 10 and 14A (procurement procedures). Also,
the GOI-s budgetary process makes it difficult for the electricity authority
and the project management to have flexibility in the deployment of Rupiah
funds. The Bank is continuing to pursue these problems with the GOI. Dis-
bursements are much slower than projected. Project cost estimates are now
based on available contract and tender prices and the total cost of
contracts being financed by the Bank loan amount to $140 million, plus
contingencies. Present indications are that there will be a saving of
about $20 million in the loan amount.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is still not affected. Tenders for EHV
lines, substations, transformers and reactors were received in November-
December 1980 and as of the last supervision mission in July 1981, were
expected to be finalized in October 1981. Commissioning date for the EHV
lines and substation is now estimated to be June 1982, which would be ahead
of the commissioning of the first Suralaya unit in August 1984, though six
months behind the appraisal schedule.  Progress in land acquisition is
satisfactory, the land for all substations has been purchased. Also,
negotiations for the purchase of land for tower locations is in progress.
Tenders for control and communications equipment were issued in April 1981.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power Project:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
This loan was declared effective on April 23, 1981. The project
would utilize the hydroelectric potential of the Citarum River to meet
Java's growing demand for economical electricity.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 28 pages
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date; November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 415 ha of raw land now earmarked for acquisition, 358 ha had been
purchased as of mid-1981, 164 ha of developed land reserved for factory use
has been sold to 210 firms, with employment currently estimated at around
9,700; at full capacity production employment is expected to be around
23,000 workers. Despite the slow development of the estate resulting in
protracted disbursement of the credit, and substantially higher cost than
estimated at appraisal, PT JIEP's financial performance has been
satisfactory. Some adjustments of its dividend, cost and price policies
were nevertheless called for and were recommended to PT JIEP during the last
project supervision mission. GOI has agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the
Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT
JIEP as the sole administrator. The closing date of the credit was
therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982, reallocating the
remaining funds for the establishment of the EPZ. However, the loan docu-
ments have not yet been amended because the required Presidential Decree and
subsequent operating license by the Department of Trade and Cooperatives
have not yet been issued.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effectave Date: April 21,1977; Closing Date: December 31,1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. PDFCI has deliberately
spread Bank funds over as large a number of subprojects as possible to match
its resources from Bank Indonesia. The loan is now fully committed and
disbursements are expected to be completed by the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effectave Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. The loan was fully
committed by the end of 1979 and $36.1 million was disbursed as of March 31,
1981. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the present closing date.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily. Commitments
have increased rapidly since the last supervision mission in May 1980. As
of March 31, 1981, 73% of the loan had been committed. Disbursements have
also caught up and it is now expected that the loan will be fully committed
by September 1981 and fully disbursed by the closing date.



- 49 -                       ANNEX II
Page 22 of 28 pages
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is nearing completion. The family planning program
continues to show outstanding performance. Annual targets of new contracep-
tive acceptors for the period 1972/73-1980/81 were nearly all exceeded.
Current contraceptive users as a proportion of married women of reproductive
age increased from 27% in 1979 to 36% in 1981. The birth rate is estimated to
have declined from about 44-46 per 1,000 population in 1971 to around 32-34
per 1,000 population in 1980. All the activities financed out of project
savings have been completed, except the utilization of two overseas
fellowships and the installation of the computer. Two officials of the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board have been nominated for the
fellowships to undergo training during this year. Installation of the
computer is expected to be completed shortly and conversion of existing
programs and testing are scheduled to also be completed shortly. All
activity connected with the computer should be completed by the end of
August 1981. Disbursements are expected to be completed by the scheduled
closing date of December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.



- 50 -                      ANNEX II
Page 23 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1869   Third Population:  $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Despite initial difficulties which resulted in an overall delay of
about 1-1/2 years, project implementation is being improved and sustained.
Due mainly to the devaluation of the Rupiah and revised construction
standards, project cost is considerably less than anticipated at appraisal.
A partial reallocation of funds between components and categories has thus
been proposed. This measure, along with 18 months postponement of the
completion date, would allow virtually all appraisal targets to be
achieved as well as a modest expansion (beyond those targets) of existing
activities of the more successfull components, and would not alter project
concept, objectives or content. With regard to present project status, the
Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN) is now operational
and a long-term research program is under preparation. Food Technolgy
Development Center (FTDC) staff have moved to the new campus. The pilot
plant is still unfinished, but should be functioning by the end of 1981.
Village food storage is fast becoming an important area for further trials
and development. Nutrition Academy enrollment has been increased to 24,
with consequential staffing and space requirements. Consultants on the
Nutrition Improvement Pilot Project (NIPP) have produced an interim report,
reintroducing a positive, promotive program which accords with the views
expressed by previous Bank missions. Nutrition Education consultants have
submitted two reports on communication and behavioral change; pre-tested
materials are ready for reproduction. All NIPP villages will be covered.
Arrangements have been made for radio and television airtime. The Nutrition
Anemia Pilot Project (NAPP) has continued on schedule and shows favorable
returns on investment. No advance has been made in the preparation of a
master plan for home garden improvement. The closing date has been post-
poned by one year to March 31, 1983.



- 51 -                        ANNEX II
Page 24 of 28 pages
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, including color photo processing equipment and
printing equipment required to produce maps, is installed. Computer equipment
for resource analysis including a topographic data bank and flatbed plotter
has been installed. Various resource evaluation activities have been
undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and training of new staff,
particularly at junior and middle level has recently been accelerated. The
new photography operation financed under the parallel Canadian Project was
delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend the project until end
of 1983. The photography operation is now expected to start in July 1981 and
completed at the end of 1983.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project has been under implementation for four and a half years.
Because of slow execution, the closing date has been postponed by two years to
December 31, 1982. The only component still ongoing is the road betterment
program and the related consultancies for works supervision. Other
consultancies have been completed satisfactorily, sometimes with substantial
delays. Design changes by the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) geared to
speeding up construction works were reviewed by the October 1980 supervision
mission. Most of the changes were accepted but reinstatement of the original
standards in a few specific cases is now being finalized by DGH. According to
estimates there is expected to be a surplus of up to $10.5 million in the loan
account. Ways in which to use this surplus are under discussion; one option
is to increase the volume of road betterment by including new sections in the
project.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 25 of 28 pages
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly two years ago, is
substantially behind schedule. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious
project objectives, which translate into program-type components and numerous
consultancies; (b) overcentralization of the Directorate General of Highways
(DGH); (c) a shift of senior staff within DGH; and (d) new development
guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the spread of investments
over a larger number of projects with reduced standards. The latest
supervision mission noted a marked improvement in project execution, with all
components now actively pushed forward by DGH, and the project should be
completed with a total delay of only one year. The road betterment program is
well underway. The major issue of reoptimization of road betterment standards
is now solved satisfactorily and DGH should soon send to the Bank the contract
amendments legalizing the agreed changes. Tendering for the first batch of
bridge replacements should start soon. The Provincial Departments of Public
Works programs of support works for 1981 have just been submitted to the Bank
following several revisions. $6.8 million of the loan amount has been
cancelled due to misprocurement of road maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project would increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on the
price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979 and 80%
of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN, is
reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is being
regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its Bank-financed
operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping. line, accounting for about
half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses. On January 27, 1981,
Motor Vessel Tampomas operated by P.T. PELNI caught fire and sank while
carrying passengers from Jakarta to Sulawesi. The purchase of this ship was
financed in part from the proceeds of this loan. The circumstances of the
accident are the subject of an ongoing GOT Court of Inquiry.



-53 
ANNEX I.
Page 26 of 28 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the
impact of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation, are completed, and the Basin III civil
works finance by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 85%
completed. Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are
62% completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised
construction schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate
the full effect of delays on project cost. Several Bank-financed studies
which are underway or have been completed, will enable the Government to
identify components of a further ports project suitable for Bank financing.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism; $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the extension of some
utility services, infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The access road
to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpasar bypass road were completed and
opened for traffic in December 1980. The preparation of additional infra-
structure improvements and possible participation by the Bali Tourism Deve-
lopment Board (BTDC) in hotel investment for Nusa Dua utilizing the uncom-
mitted portion of the credit is underway. On the other hand, the Ministry
of Transport is proposing to use additional funds from the credit to cover the
cost overrun incurred on the already completed access and bypass road
component. The allocation of the uncommitted funds to the two agencies is
under review by the Government. The market for tourism to Bali has held up
well in 1980/81. Hotel occupancies in international standard hotels in Bali
exceed 80%. The construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa
Dua is progressing well for completion in December 1982. The negotiations
with Club Mediterranee for a holiday village has been finalized and the
construction is expected to start in early 1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste



ANNEX II
- 54 -                           Page 27 of 28 pages
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas in Jakarta and 374
ha in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant, deep
wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban transport study
for Jakarta under the technical assistance component (Jakarta transport study,
Semarang and Surabaya drainage studies), the project progress is essentially
complete. Upgrading costs for the program have been within the appraisal
estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in
Surabaya have been covered so far, benefitting a total population of about 1.4
million. About 180 community health workers in Jakarta and 93 in Surabaya
have been trained and are working in the improved kampungs. The project is
expected to be completed by December 1982.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The kampung
improvement is proceeding satisfactorily in all project cities. The
implementation progress of solid waste management and drainage components has
improved during this fiscal year (FY80/81) compared to last year. This
technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1972   Fourth Urban Development Project: $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The loan has not yet been declared effective. The project expands
the Bank's assistance to GOI's basic shelter programs evolved in earlier
projects and concentrated mainly in Jakarta and the major cities of East Java
to nine provincial capital cities spread throughout Indonesia.  Basic infra-
structure and housing facilities will be provided through slum impovement and
sites and services developments on a total of over 2,000 ha benefitting an
estimatad 800,000 persons. Improvements to citywide infrastructure
deficiencies in main drainage; water supply and solid waste disposal will be
studied and implemented in three cities. A national urban mapping program
covering 125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city
planning, land registration and valuation programs. Institutional develop-
ment is a prominent feature and technical assistance for management, training
and feasibility studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be
provided.



-55                         ANNEX II
Page 28 of 28 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is about two and a half years behind schedule. Time was
lost because of delays in design work, tender evaluations, awards and contract
processing. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts have
been completed or are under execution. Pipelaying is the only remaining major
work in progress and is delayed by the slow supply of special fittings. A
cost overrun of about 45% is expected.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is 9-12 months behind schedule due to delays in loan
effectiveness and in tendering and award of contracts. Most procurement
contracts for equipment have been awarded except for the water meter contract.
The civil works bidding documents for the construction of water treatment
plants were approved during the last supervision mission and were tendered
in September 1981. A problem affecting the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering (DSE) in managing the project is its delay in employing management
consultants to develop the administrative capacity of the seven beneficiary
water enterprises (WEs) and to employ a management specialist for DSE's own
organization; both actions have been delayed and DSE's staff is not adequately
monitoring the WEs because of inexperience and heavy workload. Additional
staff have been employed for this purpose and are being trained.



-56 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND SEEDS PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  GOI with FAO/CP assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:        1978
(d) First Bank mission to identify
the project:                        June 1979
(e) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                             March 19, 1980
(f) Date of completion of
negotiations:                        July 17, 1981
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:         March 1982
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Seed prices would be set by GOI so that: for rice seed sold
in Java, NSC revenues would be sufficient by January 1, 1986, to
cover the cost of such seed excluding a return on investment
and by January 1, 1988, revenues would be sufficient to cover the
cost including at least a 10% return on project investments. For
rice seed sold outside Java, and secondary crop seed, NSC and P.T.
Pertani revenues would be sufficient to cover the costs of such
seeds as soon as feasible (para. 34);
(b) NSC would replace no more than two combine harvesters at Sukamandi
(para. 38);
(c) Audits of P.T. Pertani's accounts for 1976-80 would be completed
by September 30, 1982 (para. 49). Disbursement for the P.T.
Pertani processing centers for 1983 and thereafter would be
conditioned upon the determination by the Bank, based on the
completed audit, that P.T. Pertani can satisfactorily fulfill
its obligations under the project (para. 49);



- 57 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Funds for establishing and upgrading processing centers will be
given by GOI as equity contributions to NSC and P.T. Pertani and
as credits to the participating cooperatives under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 55); and
(e) Whenever GOI sets seed prices below average costs, NSC and
P.T. Pertani would receive with respect to each crop a
pre-determined subsidy per kilogram of seed sold (para. 59).






IBRD15173R
I,  t05X           N               ;tSRt .Ao  5000                   1605T                                 1100               ,t'00
SOUTJH          CHINIVA            S EA                     BR BRN/JEl                                                         OA                     Pi t
MALAYSIA        )                             C                                                                                                             M  / N5 A09*
NOt~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ AiM                                                  Y SIr  I A     
-                                                                                 a.H1.E,     AS NAX/
AST KA    NTAN                 /                     NORTh SC'LAWE
R/A 0U
SEEDS 11 PROJECT    t                             AMPUN Toe ,j,o                              A  V A             S  if A                                                                   : 
PROJECT lOCATION      m St,                                                        O                                                                P                   h~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 
*     EXtSTING SEED PROCESSING CENTERS - NSC                              -
*     PROPOSED SEED PROCESSING CENTERS - NSCtYfAR ONE rb
*     PROPOSED SEED PROCESSING CENTERS - P.T. PERTANItYEAR ONEI                                                                           C. J  V
*     FOOD CROP RESEARCH INSTITUTWiFCRWS} '
A     PROVINCIAL SEED FARMS(PSFS) YEAR ONE
PROJECT SEED PROCESSING PROVINCES H-
ROADS                                                                                   O
RAILWAYS
-    P -   ROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                       M9
-   -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES          !/,
10p                                                                          I N  D  I A  N          0  C  F  A    '                                     wEsrvus.A IfNGGARA                 FASr  NA  TENGGARA   /
MILEOS                                         .101. '. of 5991           o    Th. d_. r       .
1900               199"                                  1190~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~                    1100                                   ION0                                   129



