                                                               Proposal to Restructure

                                                                                     46377-UA

                                               UKRAINE

                       RURAL LAND TITLING AND CADASTRE SYSTEM
                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                             EUROPEAND CENTRAL ASIA REGION

                                          PROJECTPAPER

 Date: November 10,2008                                Task Team Leader: Gavin Adlington
 Country: Ukraine                                      Sector Manager: John Kellenberg
 Project Name: Rural Land Titling and Cadastre         Country Director: Martin Raiser
 SystemDevelopment                                     Environmental Category: B
 Project ID: PO35777

                                                      ~



 Borrower: Ukraine
 Responsible Agency: The State Committee for Land Resources


IRevisedestimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
 FY                     104-08        I 09         I 1 0         Ill          I 1 2         I 13
 Annual                   15.46         6.07         20           20            20           20
 Cumulative               15.46         21.53        41.53        61.53         81.53        101.53



 The restructuring is basedon absence of objection from the Board. :                   --Yes
 Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank Policies?                --N o
 Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                                             Not applicable
 I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                          - No
 Revisedproject development objective/ outcomes:
 The revisedobjectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:(i)   privatizationof the lands o f
 state and communal farm enterprises, agencies and organizations through transfer to the employees
 of these enterprises, agencies and organizations as well as retirees from among them, designating
 for each o fthem a land parcel (share); (ii) allocating land parcels to owners o f land parcels (shares)
 inkind(on site) and issuingstate landdeeds to them; and(iii)     establishing a landcadastre.
 The objectives have been amended by deletinga sub-paragraph that stated "encouraging the
 restructuring o f farm enterprises into more efficient units, with due consideration for environmental
 and social safeguards", and by insertingthe word "land" before the word "cadastre" in sub-
 paragraph (iii) deleting reference to a title registry system. The project outcomes are affected
                  and
 becausethe agency originally envisaged as responsible for establishing a unified(urban and rural)
 cadastre and title registry systemhas beenunable to do so because o f legal and institutional
 obstacles. The revisedoutcome enables such a cadastre and registry system to be established only
 for the titles issued under the project, by the main beneficiary agency. Farm restructuring is largely
 completed without project intervention andthe project activities relatingto the establishment o f
 farm advisory services, and the monitoring o f the consequent improved economic efficiency of the
 farms, is removed from the project.

 Does the restructured projecttrigger any new safeguard policies?                       -No

                                    RevisedFinancingPlan(US$m)


I        ~ n i i r c e    I       1.mal
         I-----                                             Foreign                        Total
 Recipient                              3 629,61                        0.00                    3 629,61
 IBRD                                       0.00                 101 530,OO                   101 530,OO




  Introductory Statement

  This Project Paper seeks the approval ofthe Executive Directors to introduce the
  following changes inthe Ukraine, Rural Land Titling and Cadastre System Development
  Project, LoanNo. 4709 - UA. The proposed changes take into account difficulties
  experienced with completing the legal framework for parts o f the project due to
  institutional rivalries that have not beenresolved. The project includeda Part that was
  supposedto establish a unifiedregistration system covering both urban and rural areas
  and it includedhnding for the transformation of the State Land Cadastre Center (SLCC)
  to implementthis activity. The SLCC have been unable to undertake this work because o f
  resistance from the Ministryof Justice and it has now beenagreed that resolutionof the
  differences between the institutions is highly unlikely and that the project outcomes
  relating to this Part can not be met, The project also included a Part on farm restructuring
  that has seen little progress and i s no longer required. Other parts o f the project are
  progressing satisfactorily. The project restructuring is necessary inorder to amend the
  project development objective, revise the project outcomes and reallocate resourcesto
  ensure that landtitling and cadastre systems inrural areas function effectively. This also
  entails cancellation of the sub-loan agreement betweenthe government and the SLCC
  and cancellation o f the Project Agreement between IBRD and the SLCC.

  Backgroundand Reasonsfor Restructuring

  Original Proiect Concept. The Project preparation was initiated inearly 2001 (the
  Concept Review Meetingtook place on February 5,2002) and was approved by the
  Board on June 24,2003. The Loan and Project Agreements were signed on October 17,
  2003 and became effective on July 30, 2004. The long delays in signing and
  effectiveness of the Loan after Board approval were mainly related to slow government
  procedures for processing loans and political reasons inUkraine, and not related to the
  Loan itself. The Project's development objectives are to assist the Borrower in: (i)
  privatization of the lands of state and communalfarm enterprises, agencies and
  organizations through transfer to the employees of these enterprises, agencies and
  organizations as well as retireesfrom among them, designatingfor each of them a land
  parcel (share); (ii) allocating landparcels to owners of landparcels (shares) in kind (on
  site) and issuing state land deeds to them; (iii) encouraging the restructuring of farm
  enterprises into more efJicient units, with due considerationfor environmental and social
  safeguards; and (iv) establishinga cadastre and title registry system where rights to



                                                 2

immovableproperty can be adequately registered. To achieve these objectives, the
Project envisaged seven Parts that were to be implementedover a period o f 8 years by the
State Committee for Land Resources (SCLR), State LandCadastre Center (SLCC) - a
self-financing enterprise reporting to the SCLR) and the Ministry of Agricultural Policy.
Most o f the funds (82%) were to be utilized under Part D: "allocate parcels to individuals
inruralareas onanequitable basis, establish their property rights by issuing state deeds
for land" and Part E: "establish a national cadastre and title registry". The project covers
the whole country. The remainingParts supported these primary activities with publicity,
training, legislative development, farm advisory services, equipment for the SCLR and
project management. The total Project loan amount was US$195.13 million.

Proiect Performance. The project was rated moderately unsatisfactory inMay 2005 and
unsatisfactory inMarch 2006 because of a combination o f sub-par performance, slow
disbursementsand the failure ofthe SLCC to implement Part E because of disagreements
with the Ministryof Justice over responsibility for the registration of property rights. The
disputes ledto the suspensionof Part EinFebruary 2006, but the suspension didnot lead
to resolution o f the problems and the conditions for lifting the suspension have never
been met. Duringthe period since suspensionthere has beena succession o f governments
and heads ofthe counterpart agenciesand various attempts to get new legislationpassed
inorder to clarify concerns over institutionalresponsibility, butto no avail. The lack of
activity with the establishment o f the unified registration and cadastre system led to
cancellation o f US$74 million inJuly 2006 and US$19.6 million inJune 2008. The latter
cancellation was concluded ahead o f completingthe restructuring o f the Project inorder
to reduce commitment charges and as agreed with the Borrower.

Reasonsfor Restructuring. The project restructuring is requiredbecause the project
design includeda requirementto establish a unified registration system for urban and
rural land (Part E of the Project) and it has not beenpossible to achieve this.
Restructuring will enable the government to meet the revised development objectives and
continue with the successes already achieved inthose parts of the project that have been
successful so far. The project is performing satisfactorily apart from the suspendedPart
and some issues with the Farm Restructuring Part (referred below). The project has been
instrumental inhelpingthe government to issue land titles and, although most of the
funding has come from the government, the initial requirementto issue 4 million land
titles i s already exceeded. Six major contracts for production of cadastral maps covering
21 regions are underway andthe final tender covering 5 regions is being evaluated. The
SLCC have implementeda system for recordingsecurely all titles so far issued as
expected under the project outcome indicators. The public awareness program, various
legislative improvements, training programs and other institutional improvements have
progressed well. The only reason that the project remains inproblem status i s the
inability o f the SLCC to implement the activities under Part E and the lack o f activity
with Farm Restructuring (Part F).There has been little ownership or perceived needto
implementthe farm advisory services under Part F, andthe government have asked for
this Part to also be cancelled.




                                               3

Continued Requirement for Proiect Activities. There i s a moratorium on landsales for
agricultural land inUkraine. The moratoriumrestricts owners' ability to make maximum
use of their land assets, including the ability to utilize it for getting credit. It is the policy
o f the government to remove the moratorium and it is due to be lifted once all agricultural
land titles have been issuedand a reliable system for recording land rights and
transactions with landrights i s established. This i s the fundamental requirementof the
project and the project should continue inorder to complete this requirement.

Proiect Outcomes. The overall outcome of the project was to distributeland inrural areas
to individuals and to provide them with secure title registered ina secure and reliable
registration system. This outcome is not affected by the restructuring and with the
proposed changes the remaining uncommitted funds can be put to productiveuse to
achieve this primary outcome. However, the project included an agreement to establish a
unifiedregistration systemthat encompassesall land and buildings inbothurban and
rural areas, and the outcomes for Part E agreed during negotiations can no longer be
achieved. The outcomes for Part Ewere separately listed becausethey were the
responsibility o f the SLCC. Aspects of the project relating to farm restructuring
(including businessdevelopment) were over-optimistic and the activities inthe Part are
also to be cancelled. Thus amendments to the project objective and project outcomes
needto take into account the cancellation of Parts E and F. Funds requiredfor these
activities have already been cancelled.

Government's request for restructuring. The government's initial request for restructuring
was received on October 29,2007. Amendments to their proposal were agreed during a
supervision mission inMay 2008. The agreements with regard to the final form o f the
restructuring were documented inthe Aide Memoire and covering letter to the
government following the mission inMay 2008.

ProposedChanges

It is proposedto amendthe Development Objective to state: "to assist the Borrower in:
(i) privatization of the lands of state and communalfarm enterprises, agencies and
organizations through transfer to the employees of these enterprises, agencies and
organizations as well as retireesfrom among them, designatingfor each of them a land
parcel (share); (ii) allocating landparcels to owners of landparcels (shares) in kind (on
site) and issuing state land deeds to them; and (iii) establishing a land cadastre. This  "
objective retains the primary focus specified inthe PAD. The original CAS goal at the
time of project preparation was: "The Establishment o f Private Property Rights"; and the
related Key Performance Indicator was: "Most agricultural land would be privately
owned and recorded ina secure recording system. Land owners feel that their property
rights are secure." The 2008 -2011Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) mentions the
fact that the CAS goal with respect to land issues from 2000 i s still not realized, but that
it is still relevant. The removal ofthe rural land sales moratoriumandevidence of rural
land markets functioning remain as goals inthe 2008-2011 CPS. The restructured project
should enable these goals to be finally achieved.




                                               4

The key performance indicators agreed duringnegotiations would be amendedby
deleting the indicators that refer to farm restructuring (interms o f establishing farm
advisory services) and for Part E. The main focus of the project would remain with rural
areas and cover the whole country. The initial agreement to include urban areas ina
unified cadastre and registration system i s abandoned because of the legal and
institutional difficulties addressedabove. The project will continue with the institutional
development, education, public awareness, national cadastral mapping exercise and legal
development, all as originally envisaged for the project. The SLCC would no longer be
involved with the project, but the main beneficiary (the SCLR) remains unaffected. The
Advisory Council will no longer be requiredbecause Parts E and F are deletedand the
Advisory Council was to be established to support those Parts o f the project. The sub-
loan to the SLCC and the project agreement betweenIBRDand the SLCC will also be
cancelled as the SLCC will no longer be a party to the project.

The restructuring agreement betweenthe task team and the government includes
conversion to 100%financing of expenditures for all project activities. The request for
100% financing was sent by the government on October 29,2007 and it was agreed. The
agreement was sent to the government by the Country Director on January 9,2008 but no
action was taken to amend the loanagreement because of this pendingrestructuring. It
was agreed duringthe May 2008 missionto include the 100% financing of expenditures
inthe restructuring proposal so that only one amendmentto the LoanAgreementneedsto
bemade. Duringsubsequentdiscussion and correspondence it was also agreedthat Part G
o f the project would be able to cover taxes, social costs and pension contributions for
Project ImplementationUnit staff as these costs were additional to the annual budget
provision to the SCLR and for the project period only. However, the Oblast level
implementation units referred under Part G are no longer requirednow that Parts E and F
are to be cancelled.

The agreements reached inMay 2008 includedreallocationof some of the funds under
Part E so that: a rural cadastre and registration systemcould be put inplace by the SCLR
(under Part D); data entry and provision ofthe necessaryhardware could beprovided
(underPart A); andto cover the fundingof registrationfees. The remaining funds from
Part E were cancelled and confirmed by a letter to the government from the Country
Director dated June 2,2008. This cancelation amounting to US$19.6 millionwas in
addition to a previous cancellation of US$74 million communicated to the government on
July 24,2006. It was also agreed inMay 2008 that the current restriction inPart C to
assistance to only four universities needs to be amendedto allow assistance to be
unrestricted as to the numbers and locations o f the universities. It was originally expected
that four universitieswould be sufficient to provide the national requirements for land
managers but increased activities and actual demand has shown that this i s insufficient
and that a limitation inthe number of universities to be assisted i s not necessary.
Additional minor modifications to definitions o f operating costs, technical services and
training are made for clarification, and, as further clarification, a reference to sociologic
and customer surveys is added to the project description.




                                               5

A new schedule for the withdrawal ofloanproceeds and a newprocurement planfor the
remaining period of the project have been prepared. The new schedule and a new
Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators are attached to the loan amendment letter, and a
supplemental letter will attach the revisedperformance monitoring indicators.

Analysis

The financial benefitarising from the development ofpropertymarkets inurban areas
will no longer be relevant for the project following restructuring and focus will now be
on the rural areas. The focus inthe 2008-2011 CPS references to landissues is on the
problems inthe rural sector because of the moratoriumon land sales and lack of activity
inrural landmarkets. The overall economic impactwill be less than indicatedinthe PAD
becausethe urban sector will not now be impacted by the project. A complete economic
rate of returnwas not calculated for the project during preparation because the project
was one part o f a larger agenda affecting property rights and because these types of
projects are not suitable for a typical economic rate o f return calculation. However, the
arguments usedshowing that the returnon investmentswill be substantial becauseof
increased investor confidence, increased financial liquidity, reduced transaction costs and
improved efficiency o f land use remain valid. The PAD also refers to the social benefit of
providing secure tenure to vulnerable groups and this benefit also is still applicable.
Indeed, part way throughthe project many o f the benefits are already evident. For
example, the income received by land owners through leasing out their land to local
farms i s already a very valuable safety net and a supplement to pensions for the elderly.

There are no changesto the environmental category or new safeguard policiestriggered
becausethe project is basically downsizing to an activity that is achievable within the
time frame ofthe project. No new activities are included and none ofthe excluded
activities had environmental or safeguard implications.

ExpectedOutcomes

The development objective and project outcomes will be modified slightly to remove
reference to farm restructuring and the unifiedregistrationsystem that was to be
implementedby the SLCC. Incomparison with the results framework approved by the
Board the following applies:




                                              6

Hierarchy o f            Change              Key Performance             Change
Objectives from                              Indicators from PAD
PAD
CAS Goal:                No change           Most agricultural land      No change
Establishment of                             would be privately
Private Property                             owned and recorded ina
Rights                                       secure recording
                                             system. Land owners
                                             feel that their property
                                             rightsare secure.
PDO (summary):           Allocate rural      There are five              No change to
Establish a title        landparcels to      performance indicators      main indicators,
registration system,     individuals,        referred. Four relate to    but the indicator
allocate rural land      establish their     landtitling, security of    relatingto farm
parcels to               property rights     rights and security o f     restructuring is
individuals, establish   and a title         recording systems. The      deletedbecause
their property rights    registration and    fifthstating: "Average      this activity is no
and encourage the        cadastre system     economic efficiency         longer included
restructuring o f        for rural landthat  (total factor o f           within the project.
farms into more          will enable rural   production) o f farms
efficient units.         land marketsto      that have voluntarily
                         function.           restructured are more
                                             efficient than those that
                                             have not.", is deleted.
Output from Each         The output from     There are seven              The indicator
part:                    Parts E andF are    indicators, one for each     from Parts E and
                         deleted.            Part, inthe original         F are deleted.
There are seven                              table.
outputs, one from
each Part, inthe
original table.

Benefitsand Risks

The restructuring proposal takes into account the actual situation concerning the viability
o f completing all the project outcomes. Duringproject preparation the basic legislation
and institutional arrangements for the unified registration system had beenmet, but
implementation o f the legislationhas provento be too difficult for the counterparts. The
restructuring proposal describes those outputs that can realistically be achieved. It retains
the primary benefit ofmeetingthe needto issue landtitles and establish a secure
recording system for the landtitles issued so that rural land markets and land use will
improve, while recognizingthat initial agreements to expand this activity to urban real
property markets and to establish rural advisory services for farms does not have
sufficient government support. Fundsthat would have been usedfor the cancelled
activities have already beencancelled to reduce the government's commitment and other
charges.



                                             7

The bulk o f the remaining funds inthe project are already committed with existing
contracts. The primaryrisks remaining are as follows:

Risk                               Mitigation Measures                    Ratingwith
                                                                          mitigation
                                                                          measures
The government has repeatedly      Complete the issuance o f landtitles   Moderate
extended the moratoriumon          and the rural land registrationsystem
rural landsales and is not         inorder to remove the remaining
committed to lifting the           reasons quoted for not lifting the
moratorium by the current          moratorium.
deadline o f Januarv 1.2009.
The existing contracts for the     These contracts concern the bulk o f   Moderate
productiono f cadastral maps       the remainingproject funds. Specific
throughout the country have        mapping expertise hiredby the task
suffered delays and may not       team i s regularly reviewingand
been completed within the time     monitoring the progress and
frame o f the project.             facilitating completion of the work.




                                             8

