 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14640

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/29/2015

               Country: Ukraine
             Project ID: P035777                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Rural Land Titling &         Project Costs (US$M):                     350.5               86.4
                         Cadastre
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:            L4709                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                      195.1               84.0
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural       Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 06/24/2003
                                                               Closing Date:              06/30/2012         04/30/2013
         Sector(s):       General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (85%); Agricultural extension and research
                          (10%); Central government administration (5%)
         Theme(s):        Rural markets (25% - P); State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (25% - P);
                          Personal and property rights (25% - P); Legal institutions for a market economy (25% - P)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
John R. Heath             Ridley Nelson           Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

ORIGINAL

According to the Loan Agreement (LA), on which IEG's assessment is based,

“The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) privatization of the lands of state and
communal farm enterprises, agencies and organizations through transfer to the employees of these
enterprises, agencies and organizations as well as retirees from among them, designating for each of
them a land parcel (share); (ii) allocating land parcels to owners of land parcels (shares) in kind (on site)
and issuing state land deeds to them; (iii) encouraging the restructuring of farm enterprises into more
efficient units, with due consideration for environmental and social safeguards; and (iv) establishing a
cadastre and title registry system where rights to immovable property can be adequately registered” (LA,
p. 19).

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) offered a different formulation:

“The objective of this project is to establish a national cadastre and title registry system, allocate land
parcels to individuals in rural areas on an equitable basis, establish their property rights by issuing state
deeds for land, and encourage the restructuring of farms into more efficient units, with due consideration
for environmental and social safeguards” (PAD, p. 2).

REVISED
The revised statement of Project Development Objectives (PDO), which was adopted as part of the Level
1 restructuring in November 2008, was to assist the Borrower in: "(i) privatization of the lands of state and
communal farm enterprises, agencies and organizations through transfer to the employees of these
enterprises, agencies and organizations as well as retirees from among them, designating for each of
them a land parcel (share); (ii) allocating land parcels to owners of land parcels (shares) in kind (on site)
and issuing state deeds to them; and (iii) establishing a land cadastre" (2008 Project Paper).


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 11/27/2008

c. Components:

Component 1: Institutional Development and Legal Reform
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 5.0 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 4.8 million)
(a) Assist the State Committee of Ukraine for Land Resources (SCLR) in reorganizing, focusing on land
use regulation, improving zoning regulation and monitoring of zoning compliance.
(b) Prepare the legislation required for improving land use management.

Component 2: Public Awareness
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 2.8 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 1.9 million)
Provide information on land use rights, obligations and legal procedures to all potential recipients of state
deeds for land.

Component 3: Training
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 3.1 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 2.4 million)
(a) Provide short-term training in land management and land survey to those responsible for restructuring
large farms and converting land share certificates to state deeds.
(b) Provide long-term training in land management to the students and faculty of the Agrarian Universities
in Odessa, Lviv, Harkiv and Kiev.

Component 4: Land Survey Works
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 80.0 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 68.2 million)
Privatize collective farms and issue state deeds to individual landowners, conducting surveys of land and
assets to be transferred and identifying title holders.

Component 5: Cadastre System Development
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 185.9 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 2.3 million)
Develop the computerized cadastre and registry needed to register titles and record ownership transfer,
mortgages and property restrictions, upgrading 662 offices nationwide.

Component 6: Farm Restructuring Services
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 17.2 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 0.0 million)
Advise land owners on their legal rights and obligations following farm restructuring.

Component 7: Project Implementation
(Estimated cost at appraisal, US$ 6.9 million; Actual cost at closing, US$ 4.9 million)
Support the Project Implementation Unit and hire representatives for 24 regional offices.



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
Project Cost
At appraisal, the estimated cost of the components listed above totaled US$ 300.9 million, on top of
which US$ 50.0 million was budgeted to cover physical and price contingencies and the front-end fee. At
closing, the actual cost of the components added up to US$ 84.4 million, with a further US$ 2.0 million
spent on the front-end fee.

Financing
At appraisal, IBRD funding was estimated at US$ 195.1 million; actual funding was US$ 84.0 million.

Borrower Contribution
At appraisal, the Borrower was expected to contribute US$ 155.4 million to the project cost; the actual
contribution was US$ 2.3 million. The ICR does not explain what the Borrower was expected to finance
and what it ultimately financed but presumably the large discrepancy is an integral part of the cancellation
of funds for Component 5 (particularly the dropping of support for the State Agency for Land Resources
of Ukraine and the State Land Cadastre Center).

Dates
In May 2012, the closing date was extended from June 2012 to April 2013, to allow sufficient time for
nationwide roll out of the information technology system and data upload.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

ORIGINAL

Rating: Modest

The President of Ukraine’s Program of Economic Reforms 2010-2014 included the goal of efficient
operation of the land market and makes reference to the completion of issuing state deeds and the
electronic land cadastre system. The FY12-16 Country Partnership Strategy (which was current when the
project closed) includes among its country development goals "Ensure efficient operation of land market".
The expected outcome is "Increased efficiency of cadastral registration", which is consistent with the aim
of the project that is being assessed. The CPS notes that agricultural potential is constrained by the lack
of a transparent land market.

However, moving to a single-agency model that would integrate the registry and cadastre lacked support
from the related agencies in Ukraine. Although integration is often recommended by the Bank as 'good
practice,' if the technology for transferring data between the registry and the cadastre is in place, it is not
indispensable and, in this case, the failure to integrate was not likely to compromise the achievement of
project objectives. Also, the farm restructuring envisaged by the original PDO was not relevant: contrary
to the Bank's expectations, farm restructuring in Ukraine did not prompt a shift to small-scale farming
because most of those assigned rights to the small properties that were created chose to rent them out to
larger operators rather than farm the land themselves.

REVISED

Rating: Substantial

Dropping the objectives of integrating registry and cadastre and restructuring farms made the project
more relevant to the political and institutional context of Ukraine.


b. Relevance of Design:
ORIGINAL

Rating: Modest

The components and activities were broadly relevant to the post-Soviet context, attempting as they did to
address the full complement of policy, institutional and legal/regulatory aspects for rural land privatization,
development of a modern land administration system, and provision of farm advisory services. The
education and training components and the legal/regulatory component supported development of an
effective land administration framework. However, the Bank overestimated the ability of the government
to manage the complex activities and underestimated the rivalry between institutions, which would slow
project implementation. Also, there was little government support for farm restructuring (Component 6):
inclusion of this component reduced support for the overall project.

REVISED

Rating: Substantial

The statement of project development objectives was revised to remove reference to integrating the
registry and cadastre, a proposal that faced opposition from groups in the registry concerned that their
power to extract rents would be undermined by a merger of the two agencies.

The words “encourage the restructuring of farm enterprises into more efficient units, with due
consideration for environmental and social safeguards” were deleted from the PDO, in view of the
Borrower's lack of support for this objective. Dropping the related activities (Component 6) eased
implementation without making a substantial difference to the scale of farm enterprise and contingent
employment given that those assigned rights to small parcels were unwilling to become small-scale
farmers (see Section 3a above).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

ORIGINAL

Privatize the lands of state and communal farm enterprises, agencies and organizations (Rating:
Substantial).

Although most of the steps toward privatization had been carried out before the project (ownership of
collectives had been transferred to their members in undivided shares; land share certificates for
undemarcated parcels had been issued), the third stage--issuing state deeds for demarcated
parcels--was critical for finalizing privatization because it gave deeds holders the right to rent out their
land. The project made possible the technical mapping work that is a prerequisite for opening up an
agricultural land market (although there is still a ban on the sale of farm holdings). The ICR cites interview
evidence suggesting that most of the rural population wants the ban to stay in place, fearing that its
removal would create pressures leading to the loss of land rights. Achievement of the privatization
objective was accomplished simultaneously through successful completion of the project activities that
are described under the following objective.

Allocate land parcels and issue state land deeds (Rating: Substantial).

The project helped bring the process of rural land titling to a satisfactory conclusion. There was a slight
shortfall in the number of titles ("individual state acts for rural land parcels") issued under the project: 711,
678, rather than the expected 800,000. But this was due to the substitution of other funding sources, not
to the failure to title. Targets were met for development of the regulatory framework, production of
orthophoto maps and cadastral index maps for the entire country, development of the national cadastre
system, and the registration of titles in that system. Survey results and responses to the publicity
campaigns show that many people became more knowledgeable about their land rights and that the state
deed to a particular property was seen as a more robust form of right than a share of an undivided field.

Restructure farm enterprises into more efficient units (Rating: Negligible).

No progress was made toward this objective for reasons outlined in Section 3 above.

Establish a cadastre and title registry system (Rating: Negligible).

The single-agency model of cadastre and registry was not achieved.

REVISED


Privatize the lands of state and communal farm enterprises, agencies and organizations (Rating:
Substantial).

See above

Allocate land parcels and issue state land deeds (Rating: Substantial).

See above

Establish a land cadastre (Rating: Substantial).

The information technology (IT) installed by the project allows the public to access the cadastre
data for land and data for all registered parcels were loaded into the system. A new law was introduced
requiring cadastre data (held by the cadastral agency, SLCC) to flow into the legal registry database
managed by the Ministry of Justice. Although the country did not adopt the single-agency model that was
envisaged at project preparation, the system that the project helped set up now allows for streamlined
data transfer. The new IT system has reduced the cost of land parcel registration by two-thirds, and has
halved the cost of obtaining a cadastral extract. As a result of project activities, cadastre offices now offer
more efficient services to citizens: business processes have been reengineered, spatial data
exists for the entire country, the cadastre system is uniform throughout the country, and data is
accessible via the SLCC's web portal. The average time for registrations has fallen to 21 minutes (from
application acceptance in the system to issuance of the registration certificate) and requires only one visit
to the cadastre office; previously, several visits were needed and registration took days or weeks to
complete. According to a beneficiary survey sponsored by the project, customers are highly satisfied with
the IT system that makes rapid registration possible. The beneficiaries surveyed made no reference to
the need for clients to pay bribes to expedite registration; this may reflect a reduced incidence of
corruption but the ICR does not discuss this.


5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, no ex ante economic rate of return was estimated; and no targets were set for lowering the
cost of land registration or the time taken to complete the transaction. The ICR therefore reports only ex
post measures of efficiency.

The economic analysis in the ICR assumes that the project facilitated the leasing out of land, which in
principle made it easier for land to be transferred from less-productive to more-productive farmers.
Between 2010 and 2012, the percentage of landowners that obtained money for renting their land
increased from 84 to 95 percent. During the same period, the average annual rent per hectare increased
from US$ 68 to US$ 76. (In 2003, it is estimated that only 13 percent of land share owners received
monetary payments and the average payment was only $22 per hectare.) Although the increase in land
rents was probably driven in part by factors outside the project (economic growth, increased population
density) it is plausible to assume that the benefits from increased rental income are largely a measure of
the incremental return on agricultural land. Expenditures refer to investment costs incurred under the
World Bank loan and the government's contribution, as well as the cadastral agency's recurrent costs.
The estimate of net benefits yields a Net Present value of US$ 33.3 million and an Economic rate of
return of 22 percent.

The reduction in transaction costs is the other efficiency measure deployed by the ICR. The IT system set
up under the project reduced the cost of land parcel registration by two-thirds, and it halved the cost of
obtaining a cadastral extract.The introduction of the new system and procedures during the project, when
fully and consistently implemented, allowed the average time for registrations to fall to 21 minutes (from
application acceptance in the system to issuance of the registration certificate) and required only one visit
to the cadastre office; previously, several visits were needed and registration took days or weeks to
complete". The cost of systematic titling under the project was roughly US$ 16 / parcel, which is in line
with regional norms.

Efficiency is rated substantial.



 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      No

    ICR estimate                   Yes                                      22%                                     100%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project was substantially relevant. Although cadastre-registry integration was not achieved and
small-scale farming was not promoted, the project provided secure title for land holders and contributed
to the development of land markets. The project resulted in important efficiency gains in terms of reduced
transaction costs and improved service delivery.

Under the original objectives the project is rated highly unsatisfactory, because relevance of objectives
and design was modest, two objectives were achieved to a negligible degree, two objectives were
substantially achieved and efficiency was rated substantial. Under the revised objectives the project is
rated satisfactory, because relevance of objectives and design was substantial, all three objectives were
achieved to a substantial degree and efficiency was rated substantial. Because only 24 percent of the
loan had been disbursed when the project objectives were formally revised, applying the weighting
procedure for split ratings, the aggregate outcome is moderately satisfactory.


 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

There is some risk that information, records, the IT system and staff knowledge will not be maintained, a
problem noted towards the end of implementation. Also, project monitoring arrangements did not survive
loan closing and there is no indication of how well these responsibilities are being handled by the land
administration agencies. But the cadastral agency, SLCC, has a clear and stable mandate and appears
to enjoy government support. SLCC has continued to maintain the system and invest in improvements
since the loan closed. The results and performance of the system were widely publicized under the
project and public demand for information on land rights has grown. There is probably a broad
constituency in favor of consolidating the results achieved. There may even be some pressure to extend
the project-sponsored reforms by removing the ban on sales of farmland. However, at present, the
government appears not to support lifting of the ban. It may be a while before the overarching original
goal of promoting rural land markets (see Section 3a above) is realized. The ICR does not discuss the
impact of the recent insurgency but this may well be expected to hamper the operation of land markets in
the contested areas.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

The project team was well qualified and had previous experience of tackling post-Soviet land
administration challenges. But they misread the political economy in Ukraine, underestimating the
opposition to introduction of a single-agency registry and cadastre and overlooking the lack of
government commitment to the objective of creating efficient small-scale farms. Also, the results
framework was poorly designed. The attempt at linkage with the Programmatic Adjustment
Loan--which included a condition requiring introduction of the single-agency model--proved ineffective
(government ignored the condition but the loan was disbursed). In other respects, project design was
too complex. These shortcomings had to be remedied through cancellations and restructuring, which
could have been avoided.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

The project had three Washington-based task team leaders (TTLs) over the life of the project. The
second TTL had been part of the initial design team and provided continuity throughout
implementation. The last TTL spoke Russian, helping to strengthen the relationship between the
project team and the cadastral agency. There were regular supervision missions, supplemented as
needed by video conferences. In the last year before closing, a video conference was organized
weekly, helping to step up the pace of implementation. The team responded rapidly to the need to
revise project objectives, although it ducked the opportunity to revamp the results framework. The
team could have asked more of the government and the land administration agencies (it didn't press
for agreed actions to be taken in a timely way), and the lack of coordination between the team working
on this project and the team working on the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) made it easier for
the government to flout the single-agency condition attached to the PAL.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :          Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :        Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

The Ministry of Justice did not raise objections with the Bank about unification of registry and cadastre
when the project was negotiated. But after the loan became effective it blocked unification. Revision of
the project objectives (Level 1 restructuring) took two years to complete, mainly because the
government dragged its feet. The government is responsible for the many changes in staffing of the
project management unit, which reduced its operating efficiency. Government commitment picked up
towards the end of the project, and it mobilized funds from various sources, helping to ensure that the
project almost met its target for issuing state deeds.


   Government Performance Rating                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The cadastral agency resisted opening its operations to public scrutiny: the ICR (p. 8) refers to the
"the secretive nature of the SLCC’s operations. This ultimately led to the cancellation of funds for
some project activities. The project management unit initially performed poorly on procurement and
financial management, partly because SLCC was obstructive. This led to slow disbursements in the
first half of the project. Performance improved toward the end of implementation.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The results framework would have been stronger if it had spelled out the factors bearing on the creation
of more efficient and transparent land markets and indicated which of those factors the project could be
expected to influence: this would allow for a more rounded treatment of attribution. The PDO indicators
referred to outputs (e.g. number of state acts issued) and beneficiary perceptions, when they should have
addressed more squarely to outcomes. There were no indicators or targets bearing on the cost of
registering land, or the time needed to do so. Baseline data were not collected and targets were not
specified. When the project objectives were formally revised, the opportunity to revamp the results
framework was not seized.

b. M&E Implementation:

The Project Management Unit had an M&E specialist and the Bank team provided support and guidance
on collection and review of data for each indicator. In 2004 and 2005 there were independent surveys on
the impact of land titling and public attitudes to land reform. In 2010, another independent survey
assessed the
status of land reform. In general, the surveys conducted relied too much on beneficiary perceptions, with
no attempt to compare the changes in the behavior and livelihoods of beneficiaries relative to a control
group of non-beneficiaries.


c. M&E Utilization:

Given the limited scope of project monitoring, the information produced was of limited use for refining
land administration strategy. After the loan closed, the cadastral agency made no further use of the
project monitoring system or the data it generated. The services of the project M&E officer were not
retained.
M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This Category F project had one safeguard, requiring an environmental assessment. This assessment
found that dividing holdings into smaller parcels could have adverse effects on the environment but the
reasons for this were not spelled out in the project appraisal document. In any event, the project manual
outlined the steps needed to ensure no damage to the environment resulted from property division. An
environmental safeguards specialist carried out regular review and the safeguard rating was consistently
satisfactory.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Staff in the Project Management Unit initially lacked knowledge of Bank procurement procedures, leading
to delays, particularly in processing large mapping and IT contracts. Performance improved over time.
Financial management was weak, with little cooperation from the cadastral agency and frequent delays in
paying contracts. However, all audits were unqualified.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


The project led to the production of aerial photographs and digital base maps for the entire country.
Although these products were created specifically for cadastral registration they also allowed the
government to quickly obtain comprehensive data about nationwide land use, thus serving multiple
planning needs.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        The Ministry of Justice and the
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    cadastral agency were not transparent
                                                                              in dealing with the Bank and
                                                                              government delayed the much-needed
                                                                              restructuring.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR lists the following lessons:

    Land administration interventions tend to be long and complex, involving a heavy investment in
     preparation; they tend to work best when there is a programmatic approach involving a series of
     investment projects, possibly with supporting policy-based operations.

    High level political support and direction is essential for any project that seeks to introduce
     fundamental reforms (such as land privatization), and from the start project teams need to
     realistically assess the political economy.

    When projects prove to be unworkable it is advisable to restructure as soon as possible.

    Expert consultants are often needed to advise on the procurement of the complex mapping and
     information technology typically applied to land administration; the Bank may not have the
     necessary skills in-house.


14. Assessment Recommended?              Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR presents a clear and detailed account of project achievements and shortcomings. However,
evidence presented in the section on the achievement of project development outcomes was not
organized by objective as it should have been. Also, the ICR presents evidence that the government and
the implementing agency performed poorly up until the final phase of implementation but this is not
reflected in the proposed rating.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
