                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 37348-HO

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-34430)

                                             ON A

                                           CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 47.1 MILLION (US$63.6 MILLION equivalent)

                                           TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS

                                           FOR A

                        FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT




                                     September 22, 2006




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Central America
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 2006)

                             Currency Unit = Honduran Lempiras
                                   HL 1.00 = US$ 0.05
                                  US$ 1.00 = HL 18.89

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1      ­    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CARE      Cooperative for Assistance and Relief Everywhere
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDD       Community-Driven Development
CESAMO    Health Center (with physician and dentist)
CESAR     Rural Health Center
CRS       Catholic Relief Service
ESA       Economía, Sociedad, Ambiente, Ingeniería, Consultancy Firm
FHIS      Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social )
FIDAS     Innovation Fund for Social Assistance (Fondo Innovador de Asistencia
          Social)
HD        Human Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       Internacional Development Association
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IHNFA     Honduran Institute for Child and Family Welfare
INE       National Institute of Statistics (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas)
KfW       German Institute for Reconstruction and Development
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS       Management Information System
NGO       Non-Governmental Organizations
NR        Nuestras Raíces Program
OPCS      Operations Policies and Country Services
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PEC       Community executed projects (Proyectos Ejecutados por la Comunidad)
PEDMs     Strategic Municipal Development Planning (Planificación Estratégica de
          Desarrollo Municipal)
PEMAPS    Strategic Program for Modernization of the Water Sector in Honduras
PI        Poverty Index
PIR       Rural Infrastructure Project, The World Bank
PROGENIAL Program for Gender Innovation in Latin America
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QAE       Quality At Entry
RASHON    Honduras Water and Sanitation Network
RWS       Rural Water and Sanitation

SANAA    Nacional Water and Sanitation Agency (Servicio Autónomo Nacional de
         Acueductos y Alcantarillados)
SANIPLAN German Consulting Agency for Hygiene and Medicine
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIF      Social Investment Fund
UBN      Unmet Basic Needs
USAID    United States Agency for International Development



                         Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                       Country Director      Jane Armitage
                        Sector Manager       Helena Ribe
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Andrea Vermehren

                                         HONDURAS
                   HN FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 19
6. Sustainability                                                                     21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    23
9. Partner Comments                                                                   24
10. Additional Information                                                            27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 39
Annex 8. Ex-Post Evaluation of the Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS) - Third     40
Phase
Annex 9. Pilot Social Assistance Program (FIDAS)                                      47
Annex 10. "Nuestras Raíces" Pilot Program                                             50
Annex 11. Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural Water and Sanitation Services             53
Annex 12. Poverty Ranking by Municipality Category and Sector                         57

Project ID: P064895                                                  Project Name: HN FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT
                                                                     FUND PROJECT
Team Leader: Andrea Vermehren                                        TL Unit: LCSHS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: HN FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-34430
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: HONDURAS                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (25%); General education sector (25%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (20%); Health (15%); Other social services (15%)
                  Theme: Other social protection and risk management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P);
                            Improving labor markets (P); Indigenous peoples (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/15/1999                                     Effective: 01/04/2001
     Appraisal: 02/11/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/14/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 03/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS/FONDO HONDUREÑO DE INVERSIÓN SOCIAL
                                           (FHIS)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:                 Evangeline Javier                              Xavier Coll
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrea Vermehren                               David S. Warren
ICR Primary Author:             Luc Razafimandimby; Andrea
                                Vermehren; Willem Struben


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
    The Fifth Social Investment Fund (SIF V) project development objective was to (a) increase access
    among the poor to small-scale social and economic infrastructure, in accordance with local
    development priorities; (b) develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups; and (c)
    contribute to the prospects for sustainability of such investments. The project built on previous
    government, IDA and other donor support for FHIS investment in social and economic infrastructure
    and community-driven development (CDD) activities (particularly the FHIS IV project Cr-3418-HO
    which closed on June 1, 2001). Thus, it also continued FHIS' contribution to help rebuild communities
    devastated by Hurricane Mitch, and to support the country's nascent decentralization process by
    emphasizing and relying heavily upon the participation of community organizations and local
    governments.

    Assessment of Objective. The project's objective was well-defined at project inception. It addressed the
    prevailing disparities of access to, and utilization and quality of, basic social and economic services,
    and put these in the context of decentralization and local development. Additionally, the project's
    objective reflected the country's increasing need to protect the most disadvantaged and underserved
    groups including street children, women, the elderly and handicapped, and ethnic minorities. The
    project's objective was clearly aligned with the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy which
    focused on: (i) improving the delivery and quality of basic social services; (ii) improving the efficiency
    and targeting of safety net programs; and (iii) protecting vulnerable and disadvantaged groups.
    Similarly, the project responded directly to the Country Assistance Strategy's objectives (CAS): (i)
    improving living conditions and development opportunities among the poor by expanding and more
    efficiently   distributing   priority public   sector  services,  particularly    in  education,    health,
    water/sanitation, and economic infrastructure; and (ii) addressing priority social needs through
    programs for disadvantaged and underserved groups.

    Although not explicitly mentioned in the objective, in practice the project strategically and significantly
    contributed to the country's decentralization and local development process as well as to Honduras'
    first social protection strategy.

3.2 Revised Objective:
  No formal revisions were made to the original objectives

3.3 Original Components:
    3.3 Original Components. The total project cost was estimated at US$176 million, of which the
   equivalent US$60 million was to be funded by IDA under a SDR-credit approved, with the remainder
   financed by the Government, the Inter-american Development Bank (IDB), the German Development
   Bank (KfW), and unidentified bilateral agencies. The project components were as follows:

   Component 1. Subproject Financing (US$112.92 million; IDA US$31.11 million equivalent). This
    component would constitute the core of the project, and continue the provision of financing for a wide
    range of small-scale social and economic infrastructure subprojects, as well as training to enhance
    sustainability. Subproject proposals would be identified by beneficiaries, prioritized through local
    participatory planning processes, and processed according to technical, financial, economic, social, and
    environmental criteria set out in the Operations Manual, complementary guidelines, and the Project
    Implementation Plan.




                                                     - 2 -

Component 2. Pilot and Special Programs (US$43.14 million, IDA US$28.24 million equivalent)
 (a) Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening (US$21.03 million; IDA US$6.89 million
equivalent). This sub-component aimed to establish a set of structured experiments to develop, test,
and draw lessons regarding innovative approaches and methodologies for encouraging and enabling
communities and local governments to work together more effectively, and in better coordination with
stakeholders at the local, regional, and national levels. It would cover three interrelated aspects in
selected municipalities: (i) participatory municipal planning; (ii) preventive maintenance; and (iii) the
gradual transfer of responsibilities for subproject management from FHIS to municipalities and
communities. It would finance training, technical assistance, and investment subprojects in a small
group of municipalities that would pilot the decentralization of subproject management functions .

(b) Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural Water and Sanitation (RWS) Services (US$3.40 million;
IDA US$3.25 million equivalent). This sub-component aimed at providing technical assistance,
training, and supplemental subproject financing to develop and test innovative methodologies and
creative partnerships to improve attention to rural communities' needs for water systems and the
sustainability of such investments, and to draw lessons for improved attention to, and coordination of,
the water sector. Its design would emphasize demand-responsiveness, cost-recovery, and community
control in subproject processing, and would rely significantly on the involvement of local governments,
NGOs, and private service providers.

(c) Social Assistance Innovations Fund - Fondo Innovador para el Desarollo y la Asistencia Social
- FIDAS (US$6.00 million; IDA US$6.00 million equivalent). This sub-component sought to foster
the development of innovative approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups by providing
financing for proposals (submitted by NGOs, community organizations, and the private sector) on the
basis of a competition overseen by a Steering Committee of key stakeholders. It also included resources
for training and technical assistance to improve the capacity of the relevant actors.

(d) Nuestras Raices (US$12.71 million; IDA US$12.10 million equivalent). This sub-component
would improve the living conditions and promote the social capital of indigenous and Afro-Honduran
communities by financing small-scale subprojects based on a workfare mechanism. Subprojects were
identified by the communities, and selected according to eligibility criteria established by FHIS in
collaboration with the indigenous peoples' federations. After completion of each subproject, community
members were encouraged to invest part of their earnings in follow-up subprojects (typically
small-scale infrastructure or the establishment of a small community savings fund). Financial and
institutional strengthening of ethnic federations and training of communities, coordinators, FHIS staff,
and ethnic liaison officers were substantial elements of the program to help communities organize,
administer, manage and monitor small-scale projects, and to improve their ability to preserve their
cultural values and heritage.

Component 3. Project Management (US$19.98 million; IDA US$0.65 million equivalent). This
sub-component would finance FHIS' operating costs, institutional strengthening (including ex-post and
impact evaluations), equipment and vehicles, as well as external auditing.

Assessment of components. All components contributed directly to the accomplishment of the project's
development objective and added up to a comprehensive set of poverty alleviation measures within one
institution - which is rather unique in the Honduran and even Latin American context. Through this
strategically selected set of components and pilot programs, not only did the project help develop
FHIS' strengths of efficiently delivering much needed small-scale infrastructure through local



                                                - 3 -

    authorities and communities, but it also took FHIS beyond its traditional role by developing social
    protection activities for vulnerable groups which then informed the social protection strategy
    formulation process. In addition, the project was designed to strengthen FHIS, the Government's
    principal and most experienced organization for dealing with poverty-targeted interventions, and the
    logical vehicle for achieving the project objective. Project design helped FHIS to evolve from its initial
    focus on infrastructure towards an institution that facilitates local development through knowledge
    sharing and capacity building (e.g. introducing local municipal planning and local/community-based
    subproject management). In addition, it fostered a more inclusive development through its programs for
    disadvantaged groups, making space for them at the local as well as national level.

    Despite the rather comprehensive set of components and pilots, the project was well within FHIS'
    capacity to implement. First, the institution had already acquired experience in building local capacity
    since it started to strengthen community participation in the mid-1990s, and introduced municipal
    investment planning in the late-1990s. Due to the disruptions caused by Hurricane Mitch in 1999,
    however, the local planning processes had been interrupted. Second, several factors strengthened FHIS'
    readiness and capacity to implement the project: (i) FHIS created technical units in charge of each of
    the pilots; (ii) experienced FHIS staff helped prepare the main instruments for the pilot for municipality
    and community strengthening; (iii) the Nuestras Raices pilot built on an existing program and its
    institutional structures (through ethnic federations); and (iv) in all components, the project provided for
    training and technical assistance, not only for FHIS staff, but also for municipalities, communities,
    contractors, and other relevant actors to ensure the necessary capacity at all levels.

3.4 Revised Components:
  There were no revisions of the original components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
    QAE was satisfactory. First, the project objective was relevant in its orientation toward supporting
    local development priorities and social protection, and clearly aligned with those of the CAS and the
    PRSP. Second, project design benefited from many years of experience with FHIS' policies and
    implementation record under four earlier IDA-assisted projects, the availability of a major impact
    evaluation of FHIS' investments, and experience in working with local government and communities.
    Furthermore, close cooperation with IDB and KfW helped establish a well-coordinated sector-wide
    approach, thereby aligning donors' operations within FHIS, simplifying procedures, and enhancing the
    prospects for large-scale impact. A second FHIS impact evaluation was underway when the project
    started. It included a baseline and comparison groups, covering FHIS investments between 1998 and
    2002, which was finalized in 2005. This evaluation provides a solid assessment of FHIS' performance
    at entry (note that due to these extensive impact assessments, no additional baseline survey or third
    impact evaluation was conducted from 2003 forward). Third, poverty targeting and gender issues were
    integrated in the project design and successfully implemented throughout the project. Fouth, innovative
    fiduciary mechanism were developed, e.g. for the implementation of FIDAS through a competitive
    innovation fund, and for the about 200 community executed projects (CDD - Proyectos Ejecutados por
    la Comunidad- PEC) ­ another innovation for the country and for FHIS. Fifth,the effectiveness
    conditions of the Credit addressed main elements of readiness, and risk-mitigation measures were
    adopted to address potential implementation bottlenecks.

    The main risks identified at appraisal were: (i) the upcoming presidential election and the probability of
    changes in senior management, with major implications for changes in staff and management
    philosophy; and (ii) FHIS' management information system (MIS), which experienced some capacity
    constraints following the large amount of subprojects processed during the quick response to Hurricane



                                                      - 4 -

    Mitch. The potential risks were rightly identified upfront which put the Bank team in a good position to
    follow up on these issues during project implementation. However, some of the agreed remedial actions
    were not all equally effective: the change in FHIS top management did indeed contribute to the
    implementation delays of some of the pilots - e.g., the delegation of the subproject cycle to
    municipalities and the FIDAS program, although these were corrected satisfactorily later on.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
    The achievement of the project's development objective is rated satisfactory. The main relevant
    achievements, as well as their ratings, are mostly based on data from the FHIS Management
    Information System (MIS) and findings from a comprehensive set of external evaluations carried out
    during the implementation of the project, including the second FHIS Impact Evaluation from 2005, the
    Nuestras Raices Ex-post Evaluation from 2003, and the FIDAS case study evaluation from 2006 (see
    Annex 7 for a full list of supporting documents). The achievement of the development objective was
    assessed along the following three elements:

    (a) Improve access of the poor and vulnerable to basic social and economic infrastructure services
    in accordance with local development priorities. Satisfactory. This objective relates to three aspects:
    the number and sectoral distribution of new and rehabilitated infrastructure financed under the project;
    the extent to which allocations were poverty focused; and whether investments were in accordance with
    the needs expressed by the beneficiaries.

    First, the project financed the construction and rehabilitation of a total of 2,888 subprojects, of which
    1,446 were rehabilitated schools, almost 700 new schools or an addition, 163 new health centers, 347
    small water/sanitation systems, and 461 latrines and overall, 47 percent of investment financing was
    allocated to the rehabilitation of facilities (reflecting the needs caused by Mitch), and 53 percent to new
    construction of social and economic infrastructure (data from FHIS information system). Almost 2.5
    million people benefited from these FHIS investments. With such contribution, FHIS' investments have
    arguably worked against the declining trends of the national Unmet Basic Needs (UBN) between 1998
    and 2003, subsequent to Hurricane Mitch, as reported in the FHIS Impact Evaluation (see Annex 8).
    According to the evaluation, it is much to the credit of FHIS investments that the UBN almost reached
    its pre-Mitch level again in 2003.

    Second,according to FHIS management information system data, 52.5 percent of FHIS total
    investment (2001-2005) was allocated to rural areas. The distribution of resources to municipalities by
    poverty level was strongly progressive, thus particularly benefiting the population in poor and very
    poor municipalities. As shown in Table 1, per capita investment in the poorest municipalities was
    more than four times higher than in the less poor municipalities. The sectoral allocation was also
    progressive in general as evidenced by data at project completion (see Annex 12). An exception are the
    per capita water/sanitation investments which were lower in the very poor municipalities than in the
    poor ones. This was due to the need for significant water/sanitation investments nationwide in the
    aftermath of Hurricane Mitch, and to the relatively higher investments in marginal urban areas that are
    particularly vulnerable to diseases caused by contaminated water.

    Table 1. Targeting of Project Funding by Level of Municipal Poverty (2001-06)
       Poverty            Population                                 SIF V ­ Total   Investment per
       ranking                                                      investment per   capita (in US$) for
                                                  SIF V Total        capita (in US$) investments between
                                                  investment                         1998 and 2002 3)
                                              (in US$ million) 1)



                                                        - 5 -

ACCEPTABLE            3,490,731                 48.76               13.97         21.32
REGULAR               1,114,749                  27.84                24.98      22.14
DEFICIENT              841,087                  27.18                 32.32      27.89
POOR                   227,385                  13.60                 59.84      41.34
VERY POOR               20,374                   1.24                 61.20      46.45
Various               1,108,737                  3.05                 2.76       n.a
municipalities
2)
Total                 6,803,063                121.71
Source: FHIS MIS.
Note 1: The amounts include IDA, IDB, KfW, and government counterpart funding. They do not include
community contributions, since those were only quantified in the last two years.
Note 2: The term "various municipalities" refers to investment allocated to a group of two or three
municipalities. Lack of intra-sectoral data did not allow FHIS to assess the precise amount assigned to each
municipality.
Note 3: FHIS 3 covers investments between 1998 and 2002.

Third, subprojects were financed in accordance with local development priorities. Investments were
prioritized through a structured participatory municipal planning process (see also 4.2, component 2)
led by local governments and involving communities, sector representatives, and local civil society
organizations. Approximately three quarters of the beneficiaries declared that they were consulted on
the need and relevance of the subprojects, compared to only half of beneficiaries for FHIS investments
implemented before 1998 (1).

The 2005 FHIS impact evaluation concluded that:

·   In terms of targeting, FHIS achieved between 1998 and 2002 important progress in terms of how
    progressive the investments were and in terms of the participation of the community in the selection
    and execution of projects;
·   In terms of impact, FHIS has been an important actor in the national expansion of social
    infrastructure, with works of acceptable quality and function. A positive impact of the program on
    the beneficiary population is found in the areas of health, education, and sanitary conditions;
·   The efforts of FHIS, supported under the project, during the emergency situation caused by
    Hurricane Mitch were efficient, but suffered from the limitations of centralized administration of
    the institution. This experience, however, laid the foundation of FHIS' later engagement and
    leadership in the decentralization of management responsibility (and capacity) to local governments
    and communities.

(b) Develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups. Satisfactory. This part of the
project objective was mainly achieved through the FIDAS and the Nuestras Raices programs.

FIDAS spurred the implementation of over one hundred subprojects, thus extending social assistance
coverage to over 153,000 beneficiaries, including children and youth at risk (68% of beneficiaries), the
disabled (14%), and extreme poor elderly (18%) in 17 of the country's 18 departments. Beyond
subproject implementation, the program encouraged the participation of a great number of service
providers, including churches, community organizations, and beneficiary associations. This
collaboration not only created a new relationship between a public (FHIS) and private (NGOs,
community organizations) entities, but it also allowed for the development of innovative subproject
proposals based on local knowledge. For instance, some of the activities implemented under the
program addressed problems that had not been addressed in the past (e.g., services to improve the



                                                   - 6 -

livelihoods of the disabled and to increase access to healthcare of the elderly). FIDAS was also
innovative in that it sought to increase the scope of activities from pure social assistance to
revenue-generating activities, e.g. for the elderly and for disabled. The FIDAS evaluation notes that its
effects went beyond the subprojects it financed. FIDAS' methodology improved the understanding of
special needs groups among the stakeholders and policy makers in Honduras. The program also
established a methodology for fostering local volunteers and developed and disseminated innovative and
high-quality training material for micro enterprises targeting special groups. Finally, it provided much
needed training for service providers aimed at strengthening their ability to prepare and carry out
subprojects, in a transparent and results oriented way. All these factors contribute to the sustainability
of FIDAS subprojects and the country's capacity to better serve disadvanted groups.

The Nuestras Raices program was highly effective in targeting its resources to extremely poor
communities and households, with 73 percent of the beneficiary households in the minority ethnic
groups belonging to the bottom three income categories (see Annex 10). About 4,168 activities
financed under the program were executed by about 125,000 heads of households, who received in total
a cash transfer of about US$8.5 million. It also continued promoting and reinforcing a "culture of
savings" among community members, with new community banks being established in 56 percent of
the work groups with part of the income earned by community members during the project
implementation. To strengthen capacity at the level of the ethnic groups and to ensure that the project
outcomes and approaches were understood and eventually sustained by local actors, a total of 3,351
group coordinators were trained to organize, administer, manage and monitor small-scale projects; 817
group coordinators were trained in rural banking; 310 FHIS ethnic liaisons were trained in
prioritization, formulation, and sustainability of micro-projects, and 420 ethnic liaisons were trained to
orient and support beneficiary groups on micro-projects of community interest and productive
activities.

Both of the FIDAS and Nuestras Raices programs contributed substantially to the social protection
policy dialogue, and resulted in a considerable strengthening of the country's social assistance activities
targeted to vulnerable groups. FIDAS experience and results are presently used for the national
discussion on social protection policy led by the Presidency. In addition, FIDAS continues to be
supported by a Japanese Social Development Grant solicited by the Bank. Based on the encouraging
results of the Nuestras Raices evaluation and the urgent need to improve the living conditions of ethnic
communities, the Government requested in 2004 a follow up financing for Nuestras Raices of US$ 15
million which seeks to improve and expand the program (Nuestras Raices Project, Cr. 3892-HO).

(c) Contribute to prospects for sustainability of investments. Satisfactory. The FHIS impact
evaluation report states that the works implemented between 1998 and 2002 were generally found to
have a higher percentage of acceptable quality compared with those for earlier years (see Annex 8): 97
percent of education, 93 percent of health, 79 percent of water, and 82 percent of sanitation works
received an "excellent" or "regular" rating by communities. In turn, better quality of subprojects, with
the effort of social mobilization, ensured a sense of local ownership of investments among
communities, and spurred mobilization of community contributions to subproject operation and
maintenance. Such contributions took various forms, including labor, cash, and the provision of
materials by the community or municipality.

Several elements have further contributed to improving the quality of subprojects in later years: First,
FHIS significantly improved supervision through intensive training and working with local supervisors,
as well as the appointment of local supervisors/trainers from communities. Second, social audit
committees of community members were established to ensure consistency between community ideas


                                                  - 7 -

and the technical subproject design. Third, particularly in water/sanitation sub-projects, a strengthened
process for "ex-ante" evaluation of all investments, with different criteria for rural and urban zones and
for types of sub-projects, was implemented to obtain sustainable sub-project designs (in terms of
subsidy levels, costs, and technical solutions). In addition to the ex-ante evaluation method, FHIS also
established a strengthened ex-post evaluation process for all sub-projects to identify required corrective
actions and ensure sustainability and quality of construction through a feedback curve.

Another important contribution to the prospects of sustainability of infrastructure was made through
the decentralization process that FHIS increasingly engaged in since early 2000. Both the
implementation of small scale infrastructure through local governments as well as communities (CDD)
has proven invaluable for the local development processes as well as for the operation and maintenance
of the social services. As shown by the FHIS pilot for municipal strengthening (see 4.2, component 2)
as well as the experience with community implemented subprojects, local actors are much more willing
and capable to maintain services when they were actively involved in their establishment. Another
favorable factor during this period was that Government gradually increased the fiscal transfers to
municipalities from around 2 percent of the national budget (in the early 2000s) to about 5 percent (in
2005). Many local governments have used this substantial increase of their budgets to strengthen their
administrative and technical capacity, and to invest in the operation and maintenance of basic services.

Regarding preventive maintenance of FHIS investments, the situation was generally acceptable for
investments implemented between 1998 and 2002: 80 percent of the schools and health centers were
reported to have regular and good maintenance. The remaining 20 percent of facilities had problems in
particular with electricity and sanitation. These evaluation findings were taken into account in the
design of the preventive maintenance pilot (see also 4.2, component 2). Key lessons were drawn from
the pilot and led to the revision of FHIS' manual for maintenance including lessons in the institutional
arrangements to carry out preventive maintenance, the cost of preventive maintenance and possible
fundraising ideas for communities, etc. This experience has indeed contributed to the prospects for
sustainability of investments.

Sustainability of social assistance investments through FIDAS was enhanced by a careful selection of
proposals which had to include a plan for the subproject's financial, institutional and social
sustainability (see Annex 9). Capacity building provided to service providers also contributed to the
prospects for sustainability of investments under FIDAS. The Nuestras Raices evaluation reports that
the program had important positive and sustainable effects on community organization, women's
participation, and creation of savings groups, but had some weaknesses in the sustainability of works
because only labor was paid for, but neither materials nor technical assistance was provided. This
effected the quality and therefore sustainability of the physical investments (see Annex 10). Finally, an
assessment of the Water and Sanitation Pilot states that FHIS successfully developed a set of best
practice measures that are expected to ensure operational and financial sustainability of the subprojects
(see Annex 11). A formal impact evaluation of FHIS' latest investments in water/sanitation (including
the pilot subprojects) is presently being prepared by FHIS.

On balance, the described measures and approaches implemented by FHIS substantially contributed to
the overall prospects of sustainability of investments - equally through improvements in FHIS'
traditional investments as under the pilot programs which built on FHIS long term experience.

Achievement of Social Objective. Satisfactory.
Human development outcomes. As indicated by the FHIS impact evaluation, based on a comparison
between 1998 and 2004, the beneficiaries of FHIS' subprojects had better human capital development


                                                 - 8 -

outcomes than those who did not benefit from FHIS' investment:

(i) 100 percent of children in communities with a FHIS project attended primary school in 2004 versus
93 percent in control group communities (from a 1998 baseline of 89 percent in both types of
communities);
(ii) the percentage of people seeking assistance from a health center was 6 percent higher in FHIS
communities than in communities not covered by the program (but equally with health services);
(iii) in FHIS communities, 92 percent of households had running water, compared to only 36 percent of
households in control communities.

An ex-ante and ex-post analysis of communities with FHIS subprojects also shows improved social
indicators for beneficiaries:

(i) in education, school assistance of students between 6 and 12 years old increased by 9 percent
between 1998 and 2004. At the same time, the number of children enrolled in the grade corresponding
to their age increased by 19 percent;
(ii) in health, the percentage of people facing a severe health problem who sought assistance from a
health center increased by 14 percent; and the percentage of pregnant women who had made control
visits to a health center increased by 11 percent;
(iii) the percentage of households with running water increased by 4 percent and the percentage of
households that consumed water more safely (in terms of adequate treatment) increased by 11 percent.

The ICR team concluded that the outcomes of later FHIS subprojects (implemented between
2003-2005 after the data collection for the impact evaluation) could be even more favorable due to: (i)
a change in the targeting formula benefiting even more the poorer municipalities and their population;
(ii) the intensification of community involvement through community implementation of subprojects;
and (iii) a stronger focus on interventions aimed at providing economic opportunities to minority ethnic
and vulnerable groups, who belong to the poorest segments of the population.

Gender Focus. Based on the technical assistance that FHIS received through the World Bank's
PROGENIAL project (Program for Gender Innovation in Latin America), FHIS introduced a variety of
measures designed to give men and women equal participation in subproject decision and benefits. For
example, of the two representatives of communities in the municipal meetings for the selection and
prioritization of subprojects, at least one had to be a woman. As a result, 46 percent of the participants
in municipal planning meetings were women. Furthermore, about 56 percent of FIDAS' beneficiaries
were women. In the Nuestras Raices program, men and women participated about equally as leaders of
community groups with regard to the number of days of work, revenue generated by labor-intensive
work, as well as the average loan amount received from community banks. Finally, the project's health
facilities benefited women in particular; according to the FHIS evaluation report, the percentage of
pregnant women visiting health centers increased by 11 percent between 1998 and 2004.

Environmental Objective. This was achieved. FHIS continued to work in close coordination with the
Ministry of Environment, and carried out its operations in accordance with its environmental
guidelines. Its environmental unit was properly staffed, and active in reviewing all project cycle
activities. It did train FHIS inspectors and supervisors, as well as staff of municipal environmental
units, thus having an impact going well beyond the project as such.

Private Sector Development Objective. This was achieved. Construction companies and individual
contractors, consulting firms, and service providers in software and computerized systems all took


                                                  - 9 -

    advantage of FHIS' vast program in infrastructure construction, the provision of training, and
    installation of equipment in municipalities. Service providers of social assistance activities, too
    benefited from training, and were strengthened under the FIDAS program.

4.2 Outputs by components:
    Output by Components. The project's overall output is rated satisfactory. The ratings of the
   components are explained below:

   Component 1. Subproject financing (US$90.64 million, IDA US$34.06 million equivalent). The
   output of this component is rated satisfactory. To allow for a demand-driven approach, there was no
   ex-ante allocation by sector, and therefore no targeted number of beneficiaries and infrastructure
   subprojects. At the start of the project, and as agreed with the Government, FHIS financed a large
   number of subprojects based on the 1998 municipal investment plans, and, in parallel, initiated
   participatory municipal planning in 27 municipalities to test a new methodology for broader
   participatory planning (see below). This allowed for a quick start of the project and, as detailed in
   Table 2, as early as 2001, FHIS had approved subprojects amounting to 36 percent of total investment
   funding. Subsequently, FHIS maintained a reasonable pace of subproject approval with the
   implementation of new longer-term municipal development plans (based on the new round of
   participatory planning in all municipalities).

      Table 2. Number and Amount of Subprojects funded by IDA, IDB, KfW and Government (2001-06)
                                       Gov. Contribution    Total External Financing     Share of Total
                                                               ( IDA, IDB, KfW 3)        Funding
         Year         Number of             Amount                   Amount                     %
                     subprojects 1)    (in US$ million) 2)       (in $US million)
         2001           3,980                 2.83                    41.11                   36.10
         2002            2,809                1.99                     24.32                   21.62
         2003            1,370                2.22                     24.50                   21.95
         2004             653                 0.73                     13.91                   12.03
         2005             541                 0.39                     7.58                    6.55
         2006             303                 0.05                     2.06                    1.73
       Subtotal          9,656                8.23                    113.48                  100.00
    Source: FHIS-July 2006.
    Note 1. The number of subprojects takes into account the total number of investments, including investments
    under the pilots.
    Note 2: Government Contribution is only for investments and excludes FHIS operational costs, a significant
    part of which was also covered by the Government budget.
    Note 3: Given that IDB and KfW also used the poverty map and targeting and that their projects contributed to
    the same development objective, the ICR includes IDB and KfW disbursements between 2001 and 2006.

    Both in terms of number and amount of subprojects, education and social assistance were most
    important, as shown in Table 3.

              Table 3. Subprojects by Sector over the Period 2001-2006 (IDA, IDB, KfW and Government)
     Areas                          Beneficiaries          Number               of         Amount
                                                           sub-projects              (in $US million) (3)
     Social Assistance 1)           278,836                         4,270                   17.14
    Education                       487,031                         3,368                   65.20
    Health                          642,797                          661                    13.69
    Water                           158,406                          378                     8.22
    Informal Sector                 3,922                             28                     0.32

                                                     - 10 -

Other 2)                         913,787                          951                   17.14
Total                            2,484,779                       9,656                 121.71
Source: FHIS ­ July 2006.
Note 1: Social assistance includes Nuestras Raices and FIDAS. The number of beneficiaries of the NR
program is in terms of heads of households.
Note 2: The category "Other" includes among others environment, small economic infrastructure,
multi-sectoral subprojects, and municipal investments.
Note 3: The amounts include government counterpart funding. They do not include community contributions,
since those only got quantified in the last two years.

The investments included 4,270 social assistance subprojects aimed at improving the livelihoods of
minority ethnic groups through Nuestras Raices, and children and youth at risk, the elderly, the
disabled through FIDAS; in education, they included construction, extension, and rehabilitation of
3,368 schools. In terms of financing, education represented the bulk of FHIS' subprojects with 54
percent of total investment funding, followed by social assistance (14 percent), and, to a lesser extent,
health, municipal investment, and water/sanitation investments.

Component 2. Pilot and Special Programs:

(a) Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening (US$8.70 million, IDA US$6.92 million
equivalent). This sub-component is rated satisfactory. Its achievements are measured along three
dimensions which are described below:

(i) Participatory municipal planning.The objective of this sub-component was to improve
identification and prioritization of social infrastructure needs through a systematized, participatory, and
transparent municipal planning process to improve its allocative efficiency. The planning process was
based on an open menu to encourage diversity of investments according to local needs. The planning
process was intended to plan for any investment in the respective municipalities, not only for FHIS
investments. The pilot started in late-2001 in 27 municipalities. The participatory planning was
conducted in a transparent manner with the participation of all relevant actors (communities,
representatives of community assemblies, sector ministries, and mayors), and was endorsed by
community leaders, laying the ground for a legitimate planning mechanism. The pilot also allowed for
strengthening the planning capacity of communities and the working relationship between communities,
municipalities, FHIS, and other entities involved with the training for municipal staff and community
leaders aimed at promoting the use of the guidelines produced by FHIS in collaboration with the
Ministry of Governance and Justice. The methodology used under the pilot was validated in October
2003.

Probably most significantly, the participatory municipal planning methodology developed by FHIS was
then used by the Ministry of Governance and Justice to define a national methodology for 'Strategic
Municipal Development Planning' (Planificación Estratégica de Desarrollo Municipal ­ PEDMs) that
was approved by the Social Cabinet in late and 2003, and is now implemented regularly nationwide.

(ii) Transfer of functions and responsibilities for subproject management to municipalities and
communities. A second goal of the pilot was to test whether efficiency and accountability of
investments improve when FHIS delegates to local governments the responsibility for project design
and implementation. The pilot was to start with a group of 20 capable municipalities and, after the first
two years, an evaluation would determine whether to include a second batch of municipalities to



                                                    - 11 -

continue with the same group, or to discontinue the pilot.

The target of 20 municipalities was exceeded. FHIS developed criteria for the selection of pilot
municipalities which included the technical, managerial and financial capacity of municipalities
to manage investments. Twenty-one municipalities participated in the pilot, including a group of
seven municipalities with weak capacity regrouped as a single entity in a "mancomunidad". The first
phase started only in August 2002 due to the need to train municipal staff and develop appropriate
manuals and guidelines. In addition, subsequent to changes in FHIS' top management, disbursement
related to the first phase of this component was slowed-down until 2003, which further delayed the
implementation of the municipal strengthening pilot. Nevertheless, the outcomes of pilot provided
sufficient evidence that municipally-managed subprojects met the quality standards of centrally
managed subprojects while their costs were similar or below centrally managed subprojects, FHIS
decided to expand this experience more rapidly than originally planned. By the end of the project, FHIS
had decentralized the management of subprojects to 150 of the 298 municipalities in the country,
leaving out those that did not have the administrative and financial capacity to manage funds
appropriately. FHIS also encouraged the creation of several "mancomunidades" which were a
particularly appropriate way for smaller municipalities to join the effort. Overall, the pilot benefited
from the Government's emphasis and support for decentralization and local government, and, in turn, it
provided valuable experience and capacity building to support an organized decentralization process.

In addition to the systematic strengthening of municipal capacity for managing local investments, FHIS
also started working more intensively with communities, introducing a new methodology for
community execution of subprojects (CDD). As a result, over 200 subprojects were implemented
entirely by communities who contracted the technical and organization assistance they needed to
properly comply with FHIS standards and accounting rules. Anecdotal evidence shows that many
communities saved money in implementing subprojects since they provided unskilled and skilled labor
free of charge, as well as materials (sand, stones, etc.) and tools. These savings were often invested in
complementary works (e.g. a fence for a day care center, an outdoor water fountain for a school, etc.)
which made the investments more valuable and sustainable. This experience with community
implemented subprojects was the first of its kind in Honduras and is now being used as an example in
other programs.

The institutional strengthening of FHIS, municipalities and communities played a key role in achieving
the described results. A Municipal Assistance Unit was established in FHIS in 2002, responsible for
implementing the pilot and coordinating technical assistance, equipment and the transfer of funds to
ensure proper capacity of municipalities and communities, to hire technical staff, and to provide
equipment, especially for small municipalities at the start of the pilot. FHIS used the method of a
special account to transfer funds to the decentralized municipalities for which FHIS Financial
Department was responsible. At the municipal level, technical units (2) in charge of the subproject
management cycle were either strengthened or established, and were given the mandate to execute
subprojects in accordance with FHIS guidelines. Community implementation included a strong
component of technical assistance (through local technical experts and community workers contracted
by the community), training (based on newly developed materials), and intensive accompaniment of
FHIS field staff and contracted supervisors.

The pilot and its subsequent expansion also influenced the country's decentralization policy. Important
progress was made during project implementation regarding the division of labor between FHIS and the
Ministry of Governance and Justice which previously had not been well defined. The division of labor



                                                - 12 -

was established in the following way: FHIS' mandate was defined to assist municipalities with the
establishment of systems and procedures for investment management, the Ministry of Governance, in
turn, is in charge of strengthening the financial and administrative capacities of municipalities. While
this was an important clarification of institutional responsibilities at the policy level (supported by the
IDA), the institutions have not yet succeeded in getting management to implement these complementary
mandates in a coordinated way at the local level despite constant encouragement to do so (e.g. through
the joint development of annual operations plans) by the Bank.

(iii) Preventive Maintenance. A third aim was to formalize and strengthen systems for planning,
financing, and implementing preventive maintenance at both municipal and community levels.
Specifically, the pilot sought to improve the maintenance system designed by FHIS for standard works,
and to prepare a plan to expand this system to all investments. The pilot was to include three aspects of
preventive maintenance: technical applications, organizational responsibilities, and financing of
activities. It was planned to start in 2001, and to operate in the 30 municipalities, including those
particparting in the participatory planning pilot. An evaluation was planned from the beginning to
determine the expansion of the tested procedures to the rest of the municipalities.

As planned, the pilot took place over the 2001-2003 period in 30 municipalities. It sought to achieve its
objective through the execution of preventive maintenance focused on health and education
infrastructure built since 1998 in the participating municipalities. NGOs trained by FHIS provided
technical assistance to municipal staff and local organizations to promote the use of maintenance
manuals, including: (i) Manual del Fondo Muncipal de Mantenimiento Preventivo, describing
preventive maintenance budget management, and establishing rules for the contribution by both
municipalities and communities to preventive maintenance costs. The budget for the pilot came from a
transfer from the Ministry of Governance and Justice (3) to FHIS (US$ 4,000) and an estimated
contribution by municipalities and communities of US$ 2,000, the total amount being the
estimates for standard cost for preventive maintenance. An agreement was signed between FHIS
and the respective line ministries to define and agree on the contribution of the latter entities, and (ii)
Manual de Procedimiento de la Prueba Piloto de Mantenemiento Preventivo which defined the roles
of the different relevant actors.

The pilot was completed with the results that municipalities as well as communities were more familiar
with annual maintenance planning and the technical, fianncial and organizational tasks. In particular, it
provided all relevant actors with key insights into how to improve the country's preventive maintenance
system in the following areas: (a) Committee in charge of the execution of maintenance.The existing
community maintenance organizations had proven not to be sufficiently well-organized, sustainable,
and effective in addressing preventive maintenance over the medium-term. Preventive maintenance
could be more sustainable when managed by existing community organizations with a particular
interest in the respective facility, such as parents' associations in education and local beneficiaries
committees in health; and (b) Financing mechanisms.The mechanism to generate budget for preventive
maintenance needs to be strengthened: subprojects in both education and health sectors did not have a
proper mechanism to generate sufficient resources at the community level to cover their estimated
contribution to standard cost for preventive maintenance, and line ministries did not secure budgets for
preventive maintenance in the National Budget. In addition, some municipalities did not use the totality
of funds allocated for preventive maintenance as required by law.

Thus, effective preventive maintenance and its expansion to a larger scale requires more successful
efforts to achieve national consensus with the view to refine institutional rules/arrangements that would



                                                - 13 -

ensure a regular flow of funds, clarify the roles of the entities involved in preventive maintenance, and
improve budget enforcement. A first step was taken with the increase of tranfers to muncipalities under
the new municipal law of 2005 (4). However, commitment of line ministries and municipalities needs to
be enforced, since communities alone could not be expected to secure enough funding for preventive
maintenance. These recommendations were reflected in FHIS' new maintenance manual finalized in
July 2005.

Overall, the impacts of the Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening are probably among the
most important the project has developed for the country. The pilot program strategically coincided
with the time when decentralization and local development were high on the government agenda so that
lessons and newly developed instruments fed into policy making and enhanced institutional
coordination horizontally as well as vertically. Furthermore, the program provided a big push for the
capacity of local governments and communities to manage local planning processes and investments,
which in turn empowered these local organizations and strengthened their collaboration, thus
contributing importantly to the local development process and gains in governance.

b) Pilot for Rural Water and Sanitation (RWS) (US$5.40 million, IDA US$5.15 million equivalent
). This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The objective of the pilot project was to establish
and test an intervention approach and institutional arrangements that would later be applied to
mainstream FHIS water and sanitation investments in rural dispersed areas. Three institutional
arrangements key to supporting the pilot were identified in a consultative process that included FHIS
and key players in the sector: (i) delegation of project cycle to municipalities; (ii) contracting of NGOs
or firms to work in partnership with communities from the beginning to the end of the project cycle;
and (iii) contracting of the communities themselves (CDD) which, in turn, can subcontract service
providers of their choice to support them in the implementation of the subprojects. As a basic policy,
all water/sanitation subprojects were to include provisions for community organization, sanitation, and
training in operation, maintenance, and hygiene.

Training subjects included the promotion of the pilot's objectives and strategies, the presentation of the
Operations Manual, the guidelines detailing each of the three possible institutional arrangements, and
the corresponding financial policy. Funding of the subprojects was similar for all implementation
models: communities contributed 30 percent (including community labor and local building materials),
municipalities 5 percent (in cash or in kind), and FHIS 65 percent of the total cost. Cooperation with
NGOs resulted in additional contributions of at least 15 percent of the total cost. All communities were
able to contribute their agreed shares.

Despite a slow start of the pilot due to necessary preparatory work, the projected outcomes of the pilot
were exceeded. The program financed 156(5)water/sanitation subprojects benefiting more than 55,000
users, compared to the projected 100 subprojects for 30,000 users at appraisal. In addition, FHIS had
150 system designs ready for implementation subject to further financial support. Subprojects under
the pilot used an ex-ante/ ex-post evaluation method which is regarded as "best practice". Due to the
employment of new technologies and decentralized implementation, the cost-effectiveness of
water/sanitation subprojects was improved, from an average per capita investment cost of US$150
under central FHIS implementation, to US$121 per capita cost for gravity systems, US$134 for
electric pumping, US$153 for distance pumping, and US$172 for rain catchments (previously not
implemented by FHIS). In addition to the three decentralized arrangements that were tested, FHIS
implemented 30 water subprojects at the request of municipalities with insufficient management
capacity. Based on the results of the pilot study, and following the new Law of Potable Water and



                                                - 14 -

Sanitation enacted in September 2003, which delegated the responsibility for Rural Water and
Sanitation (RWS) service provision to municipalities, FHIS selected a modified model of delegating the
subproject cycle to municipalities. Under this model, communities manage the full subproject cycle,
and municipalities provide technical assistance and transfer funds to communities. This implementation
model proved to be an efficient and appropriate way to reach poor and dispersed rural communities
with quality, sustainable RWS services. The above experience was documented by FHIS in association
with the national water/sanitation network, and disseminated to all agencies involved in the RWS
sector.

c) Social Assistance Innovations Fund (FIDAS) (US$ 5.35 million, IDA US$5.35 million
equivalent). This pilot is rated satisfactory. It was meant to foster the development of innovative
approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups, by providing financing for proposals
(submitted by NGOs, community organizations, and the private sector) on the basis of a competition
overseen by a Steering Committee of key stakeholders. Selection criteria included the defined target
groups and target themes. Two annual competitive funding cycles were planned, each targeting one or
two specific target groups. FIDAS also included an institutional training component designed to
strengthen the design and execution capacity of the service providers.

As described in more detail in the evaluation report summarized in Annex 9, prior to launching the
program, and at the beginning of each funding cycle, promotion activities were carried out through the
media to provide information about the program to service providers and targeted beneficiaries. Despite
a late start due to the need for intensive training for service providers, and a reduced number of funding
cycles (three instead of five), the promotion of the program resulted in a great number of service
providers competing for the funding, pointing to the transparency and success of the promotion of
FIDAS. A Steering Committee (6) was created to select the subprojects. Innovation under FIDAS
consisted of the participation of community groups as service providers and the involvement of groups
of volunteers. NGOs accounted for most of the subprojects for each target group (7).

The institutional impact of FIDAS is significant. It developed several manuals (8) to help service
providers improve their administrative systems as well as their strategic and operational planning tools
including the establishment of targets and a baseline for monitoring and evaluation. In addition, each
of the subprojects had to develop a sustainability plan with different levels of implementation, including
alternative and complementary actions to continue the promotion of the objectives and operations of the
service providers. Statements from participants at all levels indicate that the outcome of the capacity
building led to the creation of sustainable networks and improved management capacity of service
providers. Furthermore, the conceptual framework introduced by FIDAS changed the line of action of
NGOs and other service providers, and succeeded in creating a better common understanding of
different concepts, methodologies, techniques, and tools.

As reported in the case study evaluation report (see Annex 9), monitoring and supervision of subproject
implementation were particularly challenging. Service providers complied with all of the required
reports by FIDAS' management, but FIDAS did not develop an MIS to allow for systematic
monitoring/supervision. As a result, although the beneficiaries from different special needs and
vulnerable groups praised the positive impact that FIDAS financing had on their lives, in particular
through training and capacity building, it was difficult to measure the declared impact (9).

d) Nuestras Raices (US$11.79 million, IDA US$11.27 million equivalent). The outcome of this pilot
is rated satisfactory. It aimed to improve the living conditions and promote social capital in indigenous



                                                  - 15 -

and Afro-Honduran communities by financing small-scale subprojects (identified by the communities,
and selected according to eligibility criteria established by FHIS and the indigenous peoples'
federations), using paid labor of community members. After completion of each subproject, community
members could invest their earnings in follow-up subprojects (typically small-scale infrastructure or
the establishment of a small community bank). Financial and institutional strengthening of ethnic
federations and training of communities, coordinators, FHIS staff, and ethnic liaisons were to be
substantial elements of the program to help them organize, administer, manage and monitor small-scale
projects, and to improve their ability to preserve their cultural values and heritage

As described in more detail in the Nuestras Raices(NR) ex-post evaluation report summarized in
Annex 10, the program was the fourth phase of the 1994 established NR program. It was initially
planned to be executed within three years, but its execution was accelerated and it finished sooner.
Despite the short duration of the program, all of the planned activities were completed, and the outcome
was generally positive. First, NR/FHIS strengthened the ethnic federations' offices to build their
management capacity in order to allow them to perform their role as leaders and increase their
legitimacy during project implementation. Second, group coordinators and ethnic liaisons were formed
and trained to mobilize communities and to organize, administer, and monitor subprojects. Subprojects
were selected in a participatory way according to eligibility criteria established by the federations of
ethnic groups and FHIS. Community members were fully involved, with 92 percent of the beneficiaries
participating in the selection and ratification of the subprojects, and 76 percent of the beneficiary
community population benefiting or expecting to benefit from the subprojects. Beneficiaries were
provided with tools and with cash equal to 15 days worth of pay per household to execute the selected
subprojects. Third, beneficiaries saved on average six (6) percent of their revenues in community
banks, although this is lower than what was initially planned (50%). A total of 3,668 community banks
were operational, of which 2,127 were established under the program and 1,541 previously established
groups were strengthened. Group coordinators in community banks were trained to ensure rural banks
functioned adequately.

The evaluation report also identified room for improvement in this program. First, training of
community members could have been strengthened in order to improve communities' understanding of
some aspects of the program concept, strengthen their organization and motivation, and deepen the
intended results. Second, follow-up training and quality control could be strengthened to improve
subproject sustainability since financing was only provided for labor, but not for materials, equipment,
and technical assistance. Third, the administration of the community could be strengthened through a
better regulatory and supervisory framework and training of community members responsible for their
management. It should be noted that all of these aspects were addressed in the follow-up, self-standing
Nuestras Raícesproject.

Component 3.           Project Management (US$ 15.60 million, IDA US$0.89 million
equivalent). This component is rated marginally satisfactory. It includes (i) FHIS operating
costs; (ii) institutional strengthening (training, technical assistance, study tours, and workshops to
improve FHIS operations); (iii) equipment and vehicles; and (iv) external auditing.

As evidenced by the creation of the units in charge of the different pilots, the project and the relating
objectives, as well as the funding of the related subproject activities put emphasison the strengthening
of FHIS' capacity. Out of the total project management cost, FHIS operating costs amounted to US$13
million or 9.5 percent of the total project costs, slightly lower than the rate projected at appraisal, and
were in line with the average rate of operating cost for FHIS' total investment (10).      Approximately



                                                 - 16 -

    US$2.6 million financed various items such as equipment, vehicles, technical assistance for monitoring
    and impact evaluation and for municipalities, and other project management related expenditures.

    The project itself was satisfactorily implemented with a nine-month extension of the closing date of the
    Credit. Most of its pilots quite successful and immediately replicated by FHIS and, for example in the
    case of water/sanitation, even beyond the institution. However, financial management and the MIS
    were relatively weak, which affected the performance of the executing agency (see section 5.4).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
    Because the project was expected to be fully community demand-driven, and was basically a line of
    credit, no cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
     Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
    The project' institutional development impact on central and local government agencies, NGOs and
    communities, as well as the private sector, was substantial.

    (a) Decentralization and Local Development. FHIS has had an important influence on the Honduran
    Government and on its relationship with the municipalities. The legitimization of participatory planning
    as a mechanism to empower communities and promote their participation in decision-making processes
    that affect their lives, and to identify and prioritize local investment was a major achievement under the
    project, as it was established nationally through Social Cabinet approval. Equally important was the
    step taken in delegating subproject management (including preparation, implementation and
    maintenance) to municipalities and communities (depending on the complexity of the investment and
    the capacity at the local level) - accompanied by technical assistance from FHIS - which resulted in the
    strengthening of municipalities' and communities' technical capacity. Both approaches resulted in
    stronger collaboration between municipalities and communities, thus fostering the local development
    process. These innovations were initiated by FHIS and they are now firmly anchored at the national
    level. Finally, important processes for social accountability were introduced, as much through the
    participatory municipal planning process as through newly developed procedures and responsibilities of
    communities in the execution of subprojects (e.g. controls of contractors, supervisors, etc.).

    (b) FIDAS. The establishment of the Steering Committee to oversee the transparency and the efficiency
    of subproject selection in social assistance was a key step to improving coordination in social
    assistance programs, and starting a social protection policy dialogue. Currently, the Steering
    Committee is actively participating in the PRSP committee at the national level. Training provided to
    service providers strengthened their capacity to administer and execute subprojects, including
    preparation of proposals for funding, establishment of a baseline, and monitoring and evaluation, and
    therefore improved the prospects for sustaining improved service delivery system.

    (c) Rural Water and Sanitation Sector. The RWS pilot was of crucial importance in promoting
    national reform aimed at strengthening the roles and capacities of municipalities to plan, manage, and
    maintain local infrastructure investments by using participatory and transparent methods. The
    Technical Cooperation Agreement, signed in April 2005 by the main water sector normative agency
    (Servicio Autónomo Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados - SANAA), and FHIS, to adopt and
    promote the institutional models recommended by FHIS at the national level, provides the legal and
    institutional platform to apply the pilot's lessons learned. The resulting "Strategic Program for



                                                       - 17 -

Modernization of the Water Sector" was finalized, approved by the Government, and is now under
implementation. It is the only sector strategy that survived the administrative transition of 2005, which
is testemony to the way all stakeholders were involved in its design and formulation. In addition, the
by-law documents were developed to establish Rural Water Associations, providing the delegation of
the subproject cycle to municipalities an instrument to improve the coverage of rural communities with
quality RWS services. The agreement signed in 2003 by FHIS with the Alliance of Leading NGOs in
Honduras (CARE, Save the Children, Vision Mundial, Plan International, Catholic Relief Services,
and Aldea Global) contributed to promoting the adoption of a community-based strategy and ensuring
the ongoing presence of those NGOs in strengthening technical assistance for operation and
maintenance after the conclusion of the subproject cycle, while greatly improving community
implementation capacity.

(d) FHIS' Institutional Capacity. FHIS' capacity as a vehicle for community empowerment and for
pushing the decentralization agenda was strengthened and enriched by the pilot for institutional
strengthening. The project markedly shifted FHIS' role towards a facilitator for local development
processes and capacity building. In addition, it opened a dialogue in the country on the protection of the
most vulnerable groups which had not received similar appropriate attention before. Thus, FHIS chose
the right direction and the project provided the institutions with the opportunity to develop the strategic
agenda of decentralization and local development, as well as social protection for the most vulnerable.

FHIS arguably operated efficiently through the application of adequate methodologies and processes
for all phases of the subproject management cycle - including resource allocation, subproject
identification, formulation, evaluation, contracting, and supervision. This could have been
institutionally better capitalized if the changes in FHIS senior management, subsequent to the
presidential elections in 2001 and 2005, and followed by changes in middle management and staff and
approaches, did not affect progress in key areas in FHIS functioning. For instance, the MIS could have
been kept up-to-date so that many innovations could be processed through a unified system; the much
needed strengthening of FHIS' Finance/Administration Department was significantly delayed although
it had had an increasingly dominant role, which caused frequent problems as repeatedly pointed out by
Bank supervision missions. FHIS' procurement was carried out satisfactorily, albeit some
administrative weaknesses that appeared over time (organization of files, archiving, etc.) which also
seem to be affected by staff rotation. However, the contracting department managed the progressive
introduction of oversight and technical assistance to municipalities successfully. The need for
substantial training to improve knowledge of procurement procedures of participating municipalities
did initially result in contracting delays, but this was well addressed by FHIS. Corrective action
included the hiring of supervisors who reviewed sub-projects as well as advised municipalities on
procurement processes and procedures, leading to satisfactory administration and quality of the works.

In 2003/04, a national discussion on the future role of FHIS in the country's development was initiated
by the Presidency with participation of the development partners. The question was put forth if FHIS
was still needed in the country, and which role and responsibilities it should have in the future given the
increased fiscal transfers to municipalities, improved health and schooling indicators, and the Ministry
of Governance and Justices' stronger appearance and political responsibility for local governments.
The Bank contributed to this debate with a discussion paper (see Annex 7) confirming FHIS' important
role in the decentralization and local development process, but also outlining the need for FHIS to
change and develop into a second tier financing institution. As a consequence, several Bank investment
operations (Urban Development Project Barrios Ciudad, and Rural Infrastructure Project ­ PIR) were
placed in FHIS for their implementation.




                                                 - 18 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
    Government commitment and counterpart funding. The Government continued to be fully
    committed to the crucial role of FHIS in its poverty alleviation efforts as shown by the generally
    sufficient budgetary support for FHIS (US$21.3 million in funding for both investment and operations,
    representing 15.5 percent of total project funding).

    Changes in FHIS' management and staff. During project implementation, the FHIS' Executive
    Director was twice replaced following presidential elections. This also resulted in major turnovers in
    the other managers and staff and, thus, in a loss of institutional memory, and the persistence of MIS
    and Financial Management problems.

    Deficient coordination with Ministries of Education and Health through Social Cabinet. Despite
    the existence of detailed agreements between FHIS and the ministries, actual cooperation was limited.
    The ministries officially endorsed the design and location of facilities selected by the municipalities and
    communities, but did not always deliver on promised support for maintenance of completed facilities.
    The Social Cabinet did little to remedie these limitations.

    Implementation of decentralization policy. FHIS' focus on municipal and community management
    for subproject implementation and maintenance was greatly facilitated by the new Municipal Law of
    2002, providing the municipal governments with increased resources for investment (co-) financing and
    maintenance.

    Uncertainties about FHIS' role and mandate. FHIS faced various challenges with regard to central
    government's policy toward the institution. First, the Ministry of the Presidency and others embarked
   on a discussion about the future role of FHIS which required FHIS attention and responses, thus
   diverting capacity which was much needed in the field. Second, FHIS was given more and more
   responsibilities for the implementation of different programs. Some of these programs, like the
   "Healthy School" program (Escuelas Saludables), which was previously managed by the Presidency
   but then passed on to FHIS, helped FHIS develop, for example, a more integrated community
   development approach as opposed to isolated subproject interventions. Other programs, however, such
   as the "Manos a la Obra" program, an infrastructure program financed by Congress during the last
    year of President Maduro's administration, was clearly motivated politically and stretched FHIS'
    institutional capacity and moral. Without clear targeting criteria and not following FHIS' regular
    project cycle (including procurement guidelines), this program rather diverted attention and staff from
    FHIS' regular operations thus causing delays. It also brought in a lot of new staff that seemed to be
    selected based on political affiliation rather than professional merit. In addition, it confused
    communities and municipalities about the different "hats" and procedures of FHIS staff. These
    developments rather weakened the institution during the final phase of the previous administration, and
    took away some of its credibility which it worked to hard to gain over years. The new administration
    seems to have a clearer view of the role and mandate of FHIS for the country's development. However,
    it will take time to re-build some of the institutionality that was destroyed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
    Good coordination of FHIS with Ministry of Governance and Justice, and the Honduran Water



                                                      - 19 -

   Authority. FHIS' coordination and cooperation with these agencies was excellent, with all parties
   benefiting from the results of the pilots carried out under the project. The Ministry of Governance and
   Justice elaborated with FHIS the manual for the pilots for institutional strengthening, and provided
   support to municipalities, especially regarding contracting issues. The excellent cooperation between
   FHIS, SANAA, and the NGOs involved in RWS projects, under the umbrella of the Honduras Water
   and Sanitation Network, allowed for agreements between all actors concerned on the most appropriate
   policies and methodologies.

   Management issues. Apart from the general management issues related to frequent staff turnover,
    financial management was relatively weak and uncooperative within the institution, and the MIS should
    have received more attention from senior management interest (see also section 4.5).

5.4 Costs and financing:
    Project cost at appraisal was projected at US$176.0 million, to be funded by US$60.0 million from
    IDA, US$60.0 million from the IDB, US$7.5 million from KfW, US$28.5 million from the
    Government, and US$21.0 million from unidentified bilateral sources. Actual total project cost was
    US$137.5 million equivalent, or 78 percent of the originally planned funding, of which IDA financed
    US$63.6 million equivalent (the US$3.6 million increase can be ascribed to exchange rate
    fluctuations), IDB US$43.8 million, KfW US$8.7 million, and the Government US$21.3 million (11).
    The amount of IDB funding was reduced by the decision to split a new US$ 30 million loan, prepared
    in 2003, between the Ministry of Governance and Justice (US$ 10 million), and FHIS ($20 million) in
    accordance with the consensus reached regarding the division of labor between these two institutions.
    Government funding, too, was slightly less than projected.

    As for the originally projected US$21 million from "unidentified bilateral donors", it should be noted
    that FHIS has always received, and continues to receive, substantial funding from a great number of
    additional sources, including key bilateral agencies (USAID, Spain, Taiwan, and Japan) and
    multilateral agencies (European Union). These contributions are not reflected in the actual project
    funding mentioned above, since they did not fully fit the project objectives and methodologies. Still,
    total funding outside the project amounted to US$106 million(12)giving the project a major impact on
    FHIS' policies and methodologies.

                       Table 4: Actual and Projected Project Financing in US$ million (2001-2006)(13)
                                                    Appraisal                      Actual 1)
    IDA                                               60.00                         63.64
    IDB                                               60.00                         43.85
    KfW                                                7.50                          8.68
    Government                                        28.04                         21.31
    Unidentified bilateral donors                     21.00                            -
    Total                                            176.04                         137.48
   Source: FHIS. Note 1: These amounts do not include the community contributions, since those only got
   quantified during the last two years of project implementation.

   Strengthening of financial management was much needed but was delayed as mentioned previously,
   and FHIS only started to implement an action plan intended to address the identified weaknesses at the
   end of the project. Over the life of the project, FHIS used four different systems to manage financial
   information, with each system containing partial information, creating difficulty in harmonization of
   information (for example, with respect to sub-project implementation, the MIS often had different
   information regarding sub-project expenditures than the accounting system). Additionally, the charts of


                                                      - 20 -

    accounts were not able to capture financial information by project component or sources of financing.
    The rating given for FHIS' financial management performance is thus moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
    Sustainability is likely, and this rating relates to three aspects: (i) the physical sustainability of
    subproject investments, (ii) institutional strengthening at the local level, and (iii) the sustainability of
    FHIS as an organization aiming to increase access of the poor to social and economic infrastructure
    according to local development priorities.

    Regarding subproject sustainability important progress was made at several levels: (i) the participatory
    municipal planning process was strengthened and introduced nationwide to ensure priorization of
    investments in accordance with community needs; (ii) supervision was strengthened, and social auditing
    became common practice; (iii) communities were empowered to identify, select and implement
    subprojects, and there was more intensive involvement of communities in all phases, which proved
    effective in improving the quality of subprojects, and increasing communities' contribution to operation
    and maintenance costs; (iv) a stronger coordination between municipalities and communities was
    encouraged which fomented social cohesion and governance; (v) municipalities and communities were
    trained and equipped with manuals to carry out preventive maintenance; (vi) in education and health,
    key lessons learned from the pilot for preventive maintenance regarding financial contributions at the
    level of communities were reflected in FHIS' manual; and (vii) in water, a financial policy of
    establishing a fee covering at least operation and maintenance costs (including chlorination, payments
    for local operators, tools and spare parts) was adopted at the national level. In addition, it is expected
    that the implementation of recommended practices in water basin protection will have a positive impact
    on improving the continuity and quality of the water source.

    However, communities and municipalities are usually limited to financing and carrying out of
    preventive maintenance. More would need to be done in clarifying and setting institutional rules
    through a "maintenance contract" at the central government level to ensure that adequate funds are
    secured and clear responsibilities are agreed among relevant actors. The effectiveness of the agreements
    with line ministries needs to be addressed if curative maintenance is to be improved.

    Another aspect contributing to the sustainability of the impacts of subprojects on health and education
    relates to improved staffing (doctors and teachers) and related ratios. In facilities constructed between
    1998 and 2002, staffing of health centers and teacher/student, teacher/classroom ratios improved
    considerably compared to earlier periods. Additionally, a comparison between FHIS- and non-FHIS
    communities shows that the former group has higher/better percentages for these indicators (see Annex
    8).

    In terms of the sustainability of the project's institutional building efforts, the outcome of the transfer
    of implementation responsibilities to municipalities proved successful in improving FHIS' investment
    efficiency. Still, to roll out the delegation of the project cycle to the remaining 50 percent of
    municipalities will be a challenge since their capacities are even weaker than those municipalities that
    have been included so far. New mechanisms must be developed to address these weaknesses, including
    the promotion of mancomunidades. In the area of social assistance, the establishment of the Steering
    Committee, and the participation as well as the strengthening of a wide range of service providers
    under the FIDAS program, provided opportunities to enlarge the range of interventions and strengthen
    the coordination among actors. Several lessons were drawn from that experience to improve the



                                                     - 21 -

    prospects for better targeting, inclusiveness, and coordination of social assistance activities. As
    reported in the evaluation report of FIDAS, the service providers' capacity was strengthened. The
    Nuestras Raices program has shifted to a more ambitious approach, which aims to establish a more
    inclusive mechanism, culminating in ethnic community development plans which would prepare ethnic
    communities to better participate in the municipal development planning process; this is pursued under
    the follow-up project mentioned above.

    FHIS' sustainability as an institution is also likely. FHIS is receiving significant funding from both the
    Government and donor agencies, and will continue to be a key player in the provision of small-scale
    infrastructure and local development. The pace at which decentralization could be achieved depends on
    several factors, most of which are systemic, and/or out of the control of FHIS. Whether FHIS will also
    continue to finance social assistance programs, or merely serve as an incubator for innovative
    programs a la FOSIS in Chile remains to be seen.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
    FHIS' future role in the country's poverty alleviation efforts is expected to focus increasingly on
    decentralized operations, empowering local governments as well as communities in carrying out their
    local investment needs. The line ministries continue to show considerable capacity constraints in
    efficiently implementing small scale investments, and FHIS' experience in building the capacity of
    municipalities, communities, and NGOs is well recognized. It is also recognized by donors which
    continue to charge FHIS with the processing of projects dealing with social infrastructure and
    local/regional development processes. With several initiatives being prepared (including the
    establishment of a fund to provide loans to municipalities for key investments and the establishment of
    a national database of contractors and consultants to support municipalities and communities in their
    subproject cycle management), the decentralization process including FHIS' key role in it, is expected
    to move forward gradually as part of the general agenda of the Government.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
    Satisfactory. The project was well-designed, and appraisal covered all relevant organizational and
    social issues. The Bank's team included all necessary expertise. Risks were properly identified but
    some of the actions agreed at appraisal to deal with them did not fully work since they were beyond the
    Bank's and FHIS influence (e.g. FHIS management changes after elections, see section 3.5). However,
    it should be noted that, by initiating pilots and by providing substantial resources to FHIS, IDA
    continued much needed support to finance crucial investment and institutional development, both of
    which contributed to critically important orientation changes. These in turn, helped advance key
    development aspects, which sustained efforts aimed at increasing the access of the poor to social and
    economic infrastructure, and at strengthening local participation.

7.2 Supervision:
    Satisfactory. Supervision was adequate, and again provided for the necessary expertise. To provide for
    close and immediate contact with FHIS during the early years of the project, IDA appointed a
    coordinator in its Tegucigalpa office to monitor and facilitate project processing. Supervision missions
    provided guidance and technical assistance in strategic areas such as the decentralization process,
    participatory planning, and community execution of subprojects, as well as on operational aspects,
    with much success in accompanying the pilot programs, but much less success in reforming and
    improving key administrative areas. There was exemplary collaboration among donors, particularly
    KfW, IDB and World Bank, who regularly carried out joint missions, provided consistent advice and



                                                     - 22 -

    harmonized fiduciary requirements as far as possible.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
    Based on the above inputs, this is rated Satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
    Satisfactory. FHIS' management and staff were very much involved in, and dedicated to, preparing a
    project with activities and pilots designed primarily to improve FHIS impacts on the country's much
    needed basic social services. Lessons from previous experience and evaluation results, were
    incorporated into project design to strengthen FHIS' processes and methodologies, and to push the
    limits and evolve FHIS into an incubator for innovations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
    Marginally Satisfactory. For some of the expected outcomes of the project, an effective collaboration
    between FHIS and relevant line ministries was required. Overall, the quality and effectiveness of this
    planned collaboration is mixed. The Ministries of Education and Health did not contribute to necessary
    preventive and curative maintenance although their active participation was key in ensuring regular
    flows of funds for preventive maintenace. On the positive side, however, the Ministry of Governance
    and Justice endorsed, and contributed to, the decentralization efforts initiated by FHIS, and the Water
    Authority, too, worked closely with FHIS technical staff in agreeing upon the most appropriate rural
    water and sanitation models.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
    Marginally Satisfactory. While strategically strong, FHIS' implementing capacity was affected by the
    frequent changes in managers and staff, with further implications for financial management and the
    information system over the lifetime of the project (see section 5.4). However, as mentioned above,
    FHIS' contracting management was quite satisfactory. In addition, FHIS showed the necessary
    capacity to process a substantial investment program, as well as the completion and follow-up of four
    crucially-important pilot programs which laid the ground for major progress in decentralization, social
    protection, and the country's water/sanitation sector.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
     Based on the above inputs, this is rated marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    a) Limited, although increasing, municipal processing capacity. Major studies on municipal
    capacity and pilots covering an increasing number of the most capable municipalities provided
    substantial information on the type of mechanisms to be used to delegate responsibility to the municipal
    level. However, it is also evident that such delegation can only be gradual, since it should be
    implemented in parallel with substantial and ongoing capacity building efforts both in investment
    management and general municipal administration.

    b) Importance of community participation. Community participation in all phases of the project
    cycle in a leading position as social auditors, managers, and responsible for operation and maintenance
    is essential, not only because of the need to ensure consistency of subprojects with community
    priorities, but also because subproject execution by the final beneficiaries themselves leads to more
    commitment, lower costs and thus sustainability.




                                                    - 23 -

    c) Community execution of subprojects is key to empowerment. Local development needs to
    balance the interests of local governments and communities. Community execution of investments,
    when financed through and supervised by local governments, is an excellent vehicle to strengthen local
    collaboration, local economic development, and last but not least governance and transparency at the
    local level which is crucial for a democracy. Community execution of project could also be a vehicle
    for stronger gender equality and solidarity with other vulnerable groups.

    d) Importance of pilots and lessons learned. Because of the complexity of so many critically
    important local development issues, a substantial initial investment in pilot efforts can provide
    considerable pay-offs. Social funds can be vehicles for innovation and a risk-taking approach, which
    can provide useful insights for the larger government policy.

    e) Maintenance of infrastructure. To be successful, maintenance needs a clear institutional
    arrangement and an established financing mechanism involving several entities, ranging from line
    ministries to municipalities and communities. Preventive maintenance is absolutely necessary but not
    sufficient. Ideally, maintenance would be addressed within a broader national policy, and be part of a
    general budgetary allocation. In some cases, lack of resources at different levels hampers effective
    maintenance arrangements to be operational, emphasizing the crucial importance of establishing
    alternative mechanisms to handle the operation and maintenance of completed facilities.

    f) Importance of donors' alliance. The parallel financing of the FHIS program by several donors
    (mainly KfW and IDB) who collaborate intensively and work together on policy and operational issues,
    has been highly beneficial to the implementing agency (FHIS) as well as to the implementation of each
    project. In particular, the water/sanitation pilot project benefitted from the alliance with KfW, resulting
    in intensive technical collaboration, speeding up its implementation, and scaling up positive experience.

    g) Importance of close cooperation with NGOs. NGOs' experience with community development is
    of crucial importance, and NGO management should be considered where beneficial. For example, the
    relationship and cross-fertilization with NGOs through the Honduras Water and Sanitation Network
    enriched the pilot RWS strategy, and became a channel to quickly disseminate results, as well as to
    mainstream new investments. Similarly, NGOs' involvement in FIDAS' program helped reach a
    considerable number of beneficiaries and achieve better coordination of social assistance activities.

    h) Importance of political process. The likelihood of the political process - for example its
    implications for staff turnover at the central and local levels and on management philosophy ­
    impacting adversely on project implementation is often high. To the extent this can be foreseen, this
    needs to be taken into account, and sustained dialogue is needed to avoid disruption in project
    implementation, as it is often difficult to expect mitigation measures of such risks to be effective.

    i) Importance of capacity building. Training is a key component of any project involving
    communities. To ensure high quality of project proposals and sufficient understanding of the project
    objectives, and thereby increasing the likelihood of achieving the projected outcomes, training needs to
    benefit both community leaders and community members.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
    This section summarizes the key points of the Government of Honduras' report. The report is more
    than 10 pages and per OPCS's instruction, was not incorporated in the ICR.



                                                      - 24 -

Execution of FHIS sub-projects

Experience: The credit from the Bank allowed FHIS to include new elements into their execution of the
program, including projects implemented by communities (CDD). An operational manual for the
projects executed by the communities, PEC (Proyectos Ejecutados por la Comunidad), was also
developed.

Lessons learned: it was shown that the inclusion of beneficiaries in the execution of their projects was
feasible, safe and cost efficient. With training and support, communities are able to take on project
administration responsibilities, obtaining very good results.

Impact: The quality of public works improved and experience was gained in decentralized project
execution. This was achieved with the involvement of beneficiaries and municipalities.

Achievements: Projects were executed in time with high quality and at a lower cost than budgeted
thanks to the efforts of the beneficiaries. Due to the decentralized project cycle, local administrative
and technical capacities increased.

Execution of Special Programs

Pilot Program forLocal Institutional Strengthening: This program includes a range of initiatives
designed to develop, test and learn from innovative ways of motivating and facilitating communities
and governments to work together. Lessons learned from this program were, among others, that the
participation of the local government is vital for the sustainability of the process, and that their
participation also helped in: targeting the poorest sectors; obtaining transparency; and identifying
concrete problems. Further, the application of community execution to the decentralization program
allowed for the participation of municipalities with a low capacity to administer the decentralized
process. The report also found that there is a need to implement incentives for municipalities that
executed their maintenance plans in order to strengthen the population's confidence in their own
capacities, as well as the good faith of their authorities. There are few municipalities that do not
comply with their share of the maintenance responsibilities. Key achievements and impacts of the pilot
program are: (i) strengthened processes of decentralization and local self-management; (ii) communities
and municipalities were empowered; (iii) a democratic and fair distribution of funds; (iv) improved
quality and efficiency of projects; and (iv) an overall better working relationship between the program
and the recipient municipalities and communities.

Programa Piloto para el Fortalecimiento de Servicios de Agua Rural y Saneamiento: The program
began in 2003, with the objective of increasing the access of the poor to small-scale water and
sanitation infrastructure. The program was implemented in communities with between 50 and 500
inhabitants and where the incidence of poverty was above 55 percent. The program was one of the first
projects to implement communal execution of projects and thus helped institutionalize this approach.
The project worked with, and created links to other agencies and organizations involved in water and
sanitation (SANAA, NGOs and others). In order to ensure access to the water and sanitation systems,
land holding rights and other legal aspects of the physical installations were established. A system to
measure the quality of the water was also installed in all communities to ensure national standards were
upheld. The achievements of the program were: (i) the development of a methodology for the inclusion
and institutional coordination with communities in order to build cost-efficient and sustainable water
and sanitation solutions; (ii) the provision of technical assistance, training, and financing of the


                                                - 25 -

    sub-projects, using traditional and alternative technology and with the direct participation of local
    actors and NGOs.

    Fondo Innovador de Desarrollo y Asistencia Social (FIDAS): This program component provides
    incentives for the development of innovative ideas to attend to special needs groups or vulnerable
    groups. It began in 2001 and ended in March 2006. Despite the successes and accomplishments of the
    program, it was not possible to create a dialogue that prioritizes greater investments in social inclusion
    in the country. Some key lessons learned from the program were that: (i) the need for a rights-based
    approach when aiming at developing opportunities for all; (ii) to achieve attitudinal changes in both
    individuals and businesses, a project should not last less than one year - preferably 18 months or more;
    (iii) not only the major NGOs, but also local churches and community associations can be efficient in
    reaching vulnerable groups; and (iv) despite lacking experience and often with lower educational levels,
    these smaller actors showed great initiative and capacity to execute projects and manage funds. The
    program also contributed to strengthening social networks.

    Nuestras Raices: The program focuses on improving the living standards of the indigenous and black
    population in Honduras, through the implementation of community basic infrastructure projects. Local
    labor is used intensively in the projects. This is accompanied by incentives to save the money earned
    from this labor or to invest it in new productive activities. To assist with the latter, training and
    technical assistance was provided; 4,168 micro-projects have been executed, benefiting 125,040 heads
    of households, 42 percent of which were women. Capacity building has been provided for over 3,000
    community leaders, over 400 ethnic liaisons, 310 FHIS liaisons and 50 leaders of ethnic federations.
    Throughout, efforts were made to include a gender equality perspective and to install solidarity with
    particularly vulnerable groups.

    Target population

    The target population that the program attempts to reach is:
    ·    The population in the poorest communities and urban and rural disadvantaged groups
    ·    Communities that currently do not have access to water and sanitation and who live in the poorest
    municipalities
    ·    Children and youth at risk
    ·    Disabled persons living in extreme poverty
    ·    Elderly living in extreme poverty
    ·    Ethnic groups

    FHIS uses a `Poverty Index' to steer resources to the poorest municipalities. In addition, FHIS uses a
    `project menu' which includes the projects that tend to benefit the poor in particular.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The German Development Bank (KfW) made the following comments regarding this ICR:

Thank you very much for sharing with us the Implementation Completion Report of the Fifth Honduras
Social Investment Fund Project supported through the FHIS. We agree with the whole document.
Additionally, we would like to highlight the following themes in the report:

1. The cooperation between World Bank and KfW has been an important factor for the success of both


                                                    - 26 -

programs.

2. FHIS has had an important influence on the Honduran Government and on its relationship with the
municipalities. This influence can be seen especially in the following themes: participative planning, project
cycle's technical mechanism, municipal mechanisms for maintenance of projects and promotion of
community participation on the decisions that affect them. These key issues were initialised by the
programs financed through FHIS and they are now standard at a national level.

10. Additional Information

Notes
(1) Source: Evaluación ex-post del Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social (FHIS 3) ­ October 2005 - ESA
Consultores. It should also be noted that although information about the targeting at the level of households is not
available, the results from the second impact evaluation for the 1998-2002 period show a more progressive
allocation than in earlier years (before 1998) with the index of progressivity increasing from 0.21 to 0.23.
(2) Each unit consisted of at least an engineer and an administrative/MIS operator.
(3) The amount equals five percent of the transfer from the Central Government (Municipal Law of 2000).
(4) In the new municipal law of 2005, the maintenance share in the transfer to municipalities is 15 percent.
(5) The 156 water and sanitation subprojects under the pilot are part of the total number of 378 subprojects in
water and sanitation completed over the life of the project, including subprojects financed under the municipal
investment plans.
(6) The Steering Committee included representatives from FHIS, the Honduran Institute for Child and Family
Welfare (IHNFA), and networks of NGOs involved in social assistance.
(7) For the disabled and elderly, associations of beneficiaries accounted for the second highest share of
subprojects, while churches were the second most important actor in dealing with children at risk.
(8) Manual de Normas y Procedimientos, Plan de Implementación del Programa, Manual de Ejecutor y Guía del
Supervisor, Estructura Organizativa del Programa y Plan de Adquisiciones.
(9) Beneficiary surveys and case studies, suggest that the program: (i) provided education opportunities; (ii)
reduced risks for children and youth; and (iii) created room for better livelihoods for the handicapped and the
elderly living in extreme poverty.
(10) The project operating cost was estimated at 11 percent of the project's total cost at appraisal. Between 2001
and 2005, FHIS' total operating costs fluctuated between a high of 17.0 percent in 2002 (during the first year of
the incoming government) and 7.2 percent in 2005, with a satisfactory average rate of 11 percent.
(11) These amounts include the SIF V Credit, as well as amounts disbursed by IDB and KfW during the
2001-2006 project implementation period.
(12) Source: FHIS MIS.
(13) About US$3.4 million in contributions from the beneficiaries is not included, since this type of contribution
was not quantified by FHIS until two years ago.
(14) Linking Community Empowerment, Decentralized Governance, and Public Service Provision through a
Local Development Framework, SP Discussion Paper No. 0535. World Bank, 2005.




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Increase in rates of access and utilization Rates of access to social and economic  1/ - Rates of access to social and economic
of social and economic infrastructure.         infrastructure:                         infrastructure:

                                               Schools: 40%                            Schools: 40%
                                               Water:40%                               Water:40%
                                               Health: 90%                             Health: 90%

                                                                                       - 53% of subprojects are new infrastructure;

                                                                                       - Number of project beneficiaries: 2.4 million;

                                                                                       - Latest estimates of ex ante and ex post
                                                                                       analysis in FHIS' communities show strong
                                                                                       benefits to the beneficiaries (between 1998
                                                                                       and 2004):

                                                                                       (i) in education, school assistance of
                                                                                       students between 6 and 12 years old
                                                                                       increased by 9 percent between 1998 and
                                                                                       2004. Number of children enrolled in the
                                                                                       grade corresponding to their age increased
                                                                                       by 19 percent;

                                                                                       (ii) in health, percentage of people facing a
                                                                                       severe health problem and seeking
                                                                                       assistance from a health center increased by
                                                                                       14 percent; percentage of pregnant women
                                                                                       making control visits to a health center
                                                                                       increased by 11 percent;

                                                                                       (iii) the percentage of households with
                                                                                       running water increased by 4 percent and the
                                                                                       percentage of households that consumed
                                                                                       water more safely (in terms of adequate
                                                                                       treatment) increased by 11 percent.
2. Increased access among the                  n.a                                     2/ - 153, 000 beneficiaries among the elderly,
disadvantaged / vulnerable to appropriate                                              children and youth-at-risk, the disabled, in 17
social assistance programs.                                                            of the 18 departments of Honduras through
                                                                                       FIDAS;

                                                                                       - FIDAS subprojects selected through a
                                                                                       transparent screening processed by a
                                                                                       steering committee with networks of NGOs.

                                                                                       - 56 percent of FIDAS' beneficiaries were
                                                                                       women;

                                                                                       - 125,040 heads of households in the
                                                                                       minority ethnic groups among the poorest
                                                                                       communities direct beneficiaries of a cash
                                                                                       transfer program of approximately US$8
                                                                                       million under Nuestras Raices;

                                                                                       - 42% of beneficiaries of the NR program
                                                                                       were women;
3. Evidence that investments are targeted to n.a                                       3/ - Per capita investment higher in the
the poor.                                                                              poorest municipalities (see Key performance
                                                                                       n.6; Table of Output Indicator below);
                                                                                       - Sectoral allocation in education, health,
                                                                                       social assitance progressive highest in the
                                                                                       poorest municipalities (annex 12). NB: Per
                                                                                       capita water/sanitation investments lower in




                                                                - 28 -

                                                                                  very poor municipalities than in poor ones,
                                                                                  due to the need for significant
                                                                                  water/sanitation investments in the aftermath
                                                                                  of Hurrican Mitch, especially in larger cities
                                                                                  particularly vulnerable to diseases caused by
                                                                                  contaminated water.
                                                                                  - Targeting at the household level not
                                                                                  available yet at the end of the project.
4. Evidence that investments reflect the      n.a                                 4/ - Intensive and transparent bottom-up
priorities of the targeted communities and                                        participatory planning adopted to select
beneficiaries.                                                                    municipal investments.
5. Evidence that subprojects are in operation n.a                                 5/ - Subprojects in operation due to better
and maintained for a reasonable number of                                         supervision, systematic social auditing. All
years, depending on subproject type.                                              subprojects included training on maintenance
                                                                                  for communities.


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Amount and number of subprojects;          7,000 subprojects, amount n.a       1/ Amount of subprojects: US$121,7 million;
breakdown by type of subproject; evidence of                                      number of subprojects: 9,656
quality of subprojects.
                                                                                  Education: US$65,2 million; 3,368
                                                                                  subprojects.
                                                                                  Social Assistance: US$17.1 million; 4,270
                                                                                  subprojects.
                                                                                  Health: US$13.7 million; 661 subprojects.
                                                                                  Water and Sanitation: US$ 8.2 million; 378
                                                                                  subprojetcs.
                                                                                  Other categories: US$17.4 million; 979
                                                                                  subprojects.

                                                                                   - Projects of good quality as detailed in the
                                                                                  2005 impact evaluation report: works
                                                                                  implemented between 1998 and 2002 have
                                                                                  higher percentage of acceptable quality
                                                                                  compared with those for earlier years: 97
                                                                                  percent of education, 93 percent of health, 79
                                                                                  percent of water, and 82 percent of sanitation
                                                                                  rated "excellent" or "regular" ratings by
                                                                                  communities.


2. (a) All municipalities carrying out        n.a                                 2/ (a) Participatory planning used an
participatory local planning exercises by                                         intensive and a transparent bottom up
project end; evidence of quality of such                                          approach. All municipalities are using this
exercises;                                                                        methodology to identify and select priority
                                                                                  projects.
(b) 20 municipalities managing subproject
cycle;                                                                            (b) Far exceeded. At the end of 2005, 150
                                                                                  municipalities, that is 50% of all existing
                                                                                  municipalities, managed the subproject cycle.

(c) 30 municipalities with a coherent and                                         (c) 30 municipalities participated in the pilot
working subproject maintenance plan.                                              for maintenance;
                                                                                  Municipalities' staffs trained to use FHIS'
                                                                                  manual for maintenance and prepare
                                                                                  maintenance annual plan;
                                                                                  Communities trained during project
                                                                                  implementation on maintenance practice.


3. (a) 100 sustainable RWS systems,           n.a                                 3/ (a) Far excedeed. 56 sustainable RWS
benefiting 30,000 users, prepared and                                             benefiting approximately 55,816 users and
executed at cost levels close to national avg                                     executed at per capita cost levels close to
for comparable systems;                                                           $150 for water and sanitation systems.

(b) Operational Manual, instruments, and                                          (b) Operational Manual, instruments, and




                                                               - 29 -

plan for scaling-up prepared in collaboration                   plan for scaling-up prepared in collaboration
with Grupo Collaborativo.                                       with Grupo Collaborativo done.


4. Numbers / shares of beneficiaries           n.a              4/ 153,000 beneficiaries were reached:
reached by FIDAS. Evidence of srengthened                       - 68% among children and youth
capacity among smaller NGOs and other                           - 18% among the elderly
community organizations. Note: Additional                       - 14% among the disabled
indicators, baseline data, and specific targets
would be best for each funded subproject.                       - Capacity to establish baseline data and
                                                                specific targets and manage project cycle
                                                                management of the 103 service providers
                                                                strengthened through training and technical
                                                                assistance.
5. Number of community works projects,         n.a              5/ - 4,168 community works projects;
consistent with beneficiaries priorities,                        - 92% of beneficiaries participated in the
implemented and supported, as required, by                      selection and ratification of community
technical assistance; evidence of                               projects;
strengthened organizational capacity at the                     - 76 percent of the beneficiary community
various levels of program intervention.                         population benefiting or expecting to benefit
                                                                from the subprojects;
                                                                - 3,351 group coordinators trained to
                                                                organize, administer, manage, and monitor
                                                                small-scale projects;
                                                                - 817 group coordinators trained in rural
                                                                banking;
                                                                - 310 FHIS' ethnic liaison officers trained on
                                                                prioritization, formulation and sustainability of
                                                                micro-projects in ethnic communities in
                                                                Honduras;
                                                                - 420 ethnic liaison officers enabled to orient
                                                                beneficiaries groups on micro-projects of
                                                                community interest and productive activities;
                                                                - 10 Representing Federations of 9 ethnic
                                                                towns financially strengthened;
                                                                -50 Ethnic Federation Representatives, able
                                                                to orient and motivate ethnic, communities in
                                                                its own development management.


6. Key Performance Indicators, including                        6/ - FHIS total operating expenses as a
FHIS operating expenses as a percentage of                      percentage of total expenses: 11% in line
total expenses and evidence of application of                   with estimates at appraisal.
FHIS's targeting criteria (amount invested by
poverty category of municipality; amount                        Poverty level         Per capita
invested rural vs. urban).                                                            Amount invested
                                                                                          US$

                                                                Acceptable                13.97
                                                                Regular                   24.98
                                                                Deficient                 32.32
                                                                Poor                      59.84
                                                                Very Poor                 61.20
                                                                Various                     2.76

                                                                Amount invested in rural vs urban: 52.5% vs
                                                                47.5% of total investment funding


7. Description and analysis of lessons         n.a              7/ See section 8 for lessons learned
learned.

1End of project




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1. Subproject Financing                                    112.92           90.64            80.27
2. (a) Local Institutional Strengthening                    21.03             8.70           41.37
   (b) Strengthening Rural Water & Sanitation Services       3.40             5.40          158.82
   (c) Social Assistance Innovations Fund                    6.00             5.35           89.16
   (d) "Our Roots" (Nuestras Raices)                        12.71           11.79            92.76
3. Project Management                                       19.98           15.60            78.08

Total Baseline Cost                                        176.04          137.48
                           Total Project Costs             176.04          137.48
                   Total Financing Required                176.04          137.48




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00           4.60        36.91          77.12        118.63
                                    (0.00)         (4.28)      (34.33)         (0.00)       (38.61)
2. Goods                             0.00           0.00         0.35          0.00          0.35
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.35)          (0.00)       (0.35)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00        21.04          16.50        37.54
3A. CONS.A.1, B.1B, B.2B            (0.00)         (0.00)      (21.04)         (0.00)       (21.04)
3B. CONS. 3B                         0.00           0.00         0.00          19.51        19.51
1                                   (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3C. CONS.B4                          0.00           0.00         0.00                        0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3D. CONS OTHER PARTS                 0.00           0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                             0.00           4.60        58.30         113.13        176.03
                                    (0.00)         (4.28)      (55.72)         (0.00)       (60.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB          NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                             0.00          7.17        43.14          53.48        103.79
                                    (0.00)         (6.02)     (42.59)         (0.00)       (48.61)
2. Goods                             0.35          0.00         0.66           0.00         1.01
                                    (0.14)         (0.00)      (0.44)         (0.00)       (0.58)
3. Services                          0.00          0.00        10.40           0.00        10.40
3A. CONS.A.1, B.1B, B.2B            (0.00)         (0.00)      (6.52)         (0.00)       (6.52)

                                                - 31 -

3B. CONS. 3B                             0.00               0.00                6.40             7.65          14.05
1                                       (0.00)             (0.00)              (4.86)           (0.00)         (4.86)
3C. CONS.B4                              0.00               0.00                2.00             1.60           3.60
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)              (1.82)           (0.00)         (1.82)
3D. CONS OTHER PARTS                     0.00               0.00                2.13             2.50           4.63
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)              (1.25)           (0.00)         (1.25)
   Total                                 0.35               7.17               64.73             65.23         137.48
                                        (0.14)             (6.02)             (57.48)           (0.00)         (63.64)
Note: Numbers have been rounded up.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                Project Financing by Components(Actual/Latest Estimates) 1)
                          Bank          Bank       Percent age  Govnt and        Govnt       Percentage
                        Financing     Financing    of Appraisal co-financers'    co-fianncer of
                       at Appraisal     Actual         (%)      contribution     s' actual   appraisal
                      (in million US$ (in million               at appraisal     contributio (%)
                        equivalent)      US$                    (in million US$) n (in
                                      equivalent)                                millions
                                                                                  US$)
    Subproject            31.11         34.06         109.48          81.81          56.58     69.16
    financing
    Local                  6.89          6.92         100.44          14.11          1.78      12.62
    Institutional
    Strengthening
    Strengthening          3.25          5.15         158.46          0.15           0..25     166.67
    Rural Water &
    Sanitation
    Services
    Social Assistance      6.00          5.35         89.17           0.00           0.00        -
    Innovation Fund
    NUESTRAS              12.10         11.27         93.14           0.60           0.52      86.67
    RAICES
    Project                0.65          0.89         136.92          19.33          14.71     76.10
    Management
    Total Project         60.00         63.64         106.07         116.00          73.84     63.66
    Costs
    Total Financing       60.00         63.64         106.07         116.00          73.84     63.66
    Required
    Source: Project Appraisal Document; FHIS.
     1) The Project Appraisal Document does not show a breakdown of the Government's contribution and donors'
co-financing by component at appraisal.




                                                        - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

  Appraisal reports and ICRs for social investment fund (SIF) projects rarely provide cost-benefit
  analyses, because the demand-driven nature of those projects makes this difficult, if not impossible.
  The PAD for the SIF V project is no exception.

  No cost-benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal, and the Ex-Post Evaluation of FHIS 3, covering
  subprojects implemented over the 1998-2002 period (the report is dated March 29, 2005), did not
  provide such analysis either. However, as far as FHIS as a delivery mechanism is concerned, the report
  provided detailed information on its satisfactory poverty targeting, beneficiary participation, and
  beneficiary satisfaction. It also provided detailed information on the comparative education, health, and
  sanitation benefits of FHIS investments (see Annex 8). Although these data and conclusions only
  covered the initial years of the SIF V project period, they certainly apply to later years too, since the
  FHIS process continued to improve. In addition, at the subproject level, FHIS used satisfactory
  technical and economic assessment criteria, in accordance with the agreed Operations Manual, leading
  to major improvements in the operations and maintenance arrangements, and thus to more likely
  sustainability of the completed works.

  It also should be noted that the Impact Evaluation of the Honduran Social Investment Fund, covering
  subprojects for the 1994-1997 period, and completed by a local consulting firm in early-1999, did
  confirm that, at the macro-level, FHIS had been instrumental in attracting additional foreign resources
  (crowding in). It also stated that the likelihood that a FHIS investment would cause community
  members to switch from private to public services (crowding out) was slim (see also Memorandum and
  Recommendation of the President on the Supplementary Credit for the SIF 4 Project, dated July 14,
  1998). Although the report for the 1998-2002 period did not pursue this, all indications are that these
  conclusions still stand.




                                                   - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/12/1999                1    TTL(1)
              05/17/1999                1    TTL(1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/02/2000                1    TTL


 Supervision
              06/30/2001               13    TTL (1); INFRASTR/W&S            S               S
                                             (1); M&E (1); SF
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN'L
                                             MANAGEMENT (1);
                                             SOCIAL ASSISTANCE (1);
                                             MUNICIPAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             WATER & SANITATION
                                             (2); MICROFINANCE (1);
                                             MIS (1)
              05/17/2002               12    TTL (1); INFRASTR /              S               S
                                             WTR&SNT (1); IMPL
                                             COORDINATOR (SFS) (1); SF
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1); MUNICIPAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLE (1);
                                             SOCIAL ASSTNC PROGRAMS
                                             (1); WATER AND
                                             SANITATION (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT (1)
              04/04/2003                3    TEAM LEADER (1); SIF             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (2)


              12/22/2003                6    TTL (1); CCT SPECIALIST (1);     S               S
                                             WATER/SANITATION (1); FM
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANT CDD (1); SP
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/18/2004                3    TTL (1); CDD SPECIALIST (1);     S               S
                                             FMS (1)
              08/29/2005                2    TTL(1); OPERATIONS               S               S
                                             SPECIALIST(1)



                                              - 34 -

      02/14/2006           3 TTL(1); ECONOMIST(1);          S    S
                             CONSULTANT(1)
      Other Supervision
      Missions:
      02/12/2001           2 W&S SPECIALIST (1);            S    S
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      04/06/2001           2 M&E SPECIALIST (1);            S    S
                             INDIGENOUS PEOPLES (1)
      04/03/2002           1 SOCIAL POLICIES                S    S
                             SPECIALIST (1)
      07/13/2002           7 TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);       S    S
                             CONSULTANT (1); M&E
                             CONSULTANT (1); SP
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                             (1); DECENTRALIZATION (1)
      08/05/2002           3 SOCIAL POLICIES                S    S
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             CONSULTANT (1);
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      11/06/2002           5 TTL (1); SP SPECIALIST (1);    S    S
                             M&E CONSULTANT (1); M&E
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      12/09/2002           6 TTL (1); SR. SOCIAL            S    S
                             PROTECTION SPECIALIST
                             (1); OPERATIONS
                             SPECIALIST(1); SOCIAL
                             FUNDS (1); INDIGENOUS
                             PEOPLES (1);
                             DECENTRALIZATION (1)
      03/07/2003           1 SOCIAL ASSISTANCE              S    S
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      08/07/2003           1 SOCIAL ASSISTANCE              S    S
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      08/19/2004           3 TTL (1); FINANCIAL             S    S
                             MANAGEMENT (1); CDD
                             CONSULTANT (1)
      11/16/2004           2 TTL (1); CDD CONSULTANT
                             (1)
      12/15/2004           3 TTL (1); W&S SPECIALIST (1);   S    S
      (Mid-Term              CDD CONSULTANT (1)
      Review)

ICR
      04/17/2006           5 TTL(1); PROCUREMENT            S    S
                             SPECIALIST (1);
                             PROCUREMENT
                             ASSISTANT(1); FM(1);
                             CONSULTANT(1)




                             - 35 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           N/A.                           N/A.
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    54                          233
  Supervision                            116                           661
  ICR                                      12                           43
  Total                                  182                           937




                                            - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



  Divina Alvarenga, "Sistematización de FIDAS: Una Experiencia de Inclusión Social de
  Grupos Vulnerables", March 28, 2006. ESA Consultores, "Evaluación del Programa Nuestras
  Raíces Etapa IV", (José Rafael del Cid, Ian Walker, Fidel Ordoñez, Fredy Velasquez, José
  Angel Lara), January 2003.

  ESA Consultores, "Evaluación de la Fase I del Programa de Reducción de la Probreza y
  Desarrollo Local" (Marco Moncada, José Rafael del Cid, Max Velásquez), October 2003.

  ESA Consultores," Evaluation Ex-post del Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social (FHIS 3)",
  (José Rafael del Cid, Ian Walker, Fidel Ordoñez, Fredy Velásquez, José Angel Lara), Febrero
  2005.

  FHIS, "Implementation Summary Activity for the Fifth Social Investment Fund Credit to the
  Republic of Honduras" from 2001 to 2006.

  SANIPLAN, "Programa Piloto para el Abastecimiento de Agua Potable y Saneamiento en el
  Marco del Programa FHIS-KfW 5" (Hugo Cobo), August 2004.

  World Bank, "Honduras Local Development Paper" (Jennifer Sara, Jennifer Fitzgerald, Mila
  Freire and Jonas Frank), December 2004.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fourth Social Investment Project", Project Appraisal Document,
  No 17778-HO, June 19, 1998.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fifth Social Investment Fund Credit", Project Appraisal Document,
  No: 21355-HO, November 20, 2000.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fifth Social Investment Project" , Memorandum and
  Recomendation of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors on a proposed Fifth
  Social Investment Credit to the Republic of Honduras, Document No - November 27, 2000.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fifth Social Investment Fund Project", Development Credit
  Agreement, Credit Number C3443, January 29, 2001.

  World Bank, "Honduras - Fourth Social Investment Fund Project", Implementation
  Completion Report, No: 25481, December 17, 2003.

  World Bank, "Linking Community Empowerment, Decentralized Governance, and Public
  Service Provision through a Local Development Framework" (Louis Helling; Rodrigo
  Serrano; David Warren), SP Discussion Paper, N0: 0535, September 2005 .




                                            - 39 -

Additional Annex 8. Ex-Post Evaluation of the Honduras Social Investment Fund (FHIS) -
Third Phase

1.       INTRODUCTION

FHIS passed through four different stages since its launch in 1990. Initially viewed as a compensatory
social program to mitigate the effects of structural adjustment, it changed in 1994 to focus on reducing
poverty by building social infrastructure and social capital. During the FHIS 2 period (1994-98), targeting
of program resources to the poor improved noticeably, while the FHIS 3 period (1998-2002) focused on
strengthening the commitment and participation of municipalities and communities.

This annex gives a summary of the report of March 29, 2005 on the ex-post evaluation of the FHIS 3
period, produced by a local consulting firm on the basis of a household survey, a project study, a
qualitative study, and complementary data. It focuses on examining if program investments: (i) reflected the
priorities of beneficiaries and communities; (ii) targeted the poorest; (iii) had the expected quality; (iv)
facilitated the target population's access and rate of use of services and infrastructure; and (v) facilitated
ownership of the project by the community through training or the diffusion of information.



2.       MAIN FINDINGS

Targeting ­ At the level of municipalities

During FHIS 2, resources were targeted to departments based on a combination of (i) a Poverty Index (PI),
which components included key poverty indicators such as access to basic services and malnutrition; and
(ii) the size of the population. In addition, the results of these two components were corrected to favor the
poorest departments.     Then, distribution within each department was again done using the PI and
population size. The targeting was slightly changed during FHIS 3 due to changes in the way the PI was
computed and how the population numbers were quantified. A minimum was also introduced to ensure that
densely populated municipalities would be able to complete projects, as well as to give priority to two
departments with particularly challenging conditions.

A first approach to measuring the efficiency of these targeting mechanisms was achieved by ranking
municipalities according to their PI, and looking at the per capita investment by quintile. This analysis
shows that between 1998 and 2002, the average per capita investment was 297 lempiras. However, per
capita investment in the poorest quintile (e.g., the poorest 20 percent of municipalities) was 464 lempiras,
while it was only 260 lempiras in the richest 20 percent of municipalities receiving FHIS investments.




                                                     - 40 -

       Table 1. Municipal distribution of FHIS resources, by quintiles of municipalities based on the PI FHIS

                                                                                                                                                      Share of
                          Per capita                                                                                                                  quintile
       Approximated       Investment                    Informal            Social        Water&                                                       in total
        quintiles/1             L         TOTAL           Sector         Assistance       sanitation    Education       Environment         Health       pop.


        1 (poorest)           464           31.8%             29.1%            34.7%          19.4%          30.7%               8.9%        44.3%      20.4%
             2                329           21.9%             15.6%            12.7%          22.6%          22.5%              18.6%        24.3%      19.8%
             3                272           20.1%             46.2%            14.4%          30.0%          20.4%              27.0%        16.6%      21.9%
             4                168           12.9%              8.6%            13.5%          12.2%          13.8%               7.5%         7.5%      22.8%
       5 (least poor)         260           13.4%              0.5%            24.6%          15.7%          12.6%              38.1%         7.2%      15.2%
            Total             297           100%               100%             100%           100%           100%              100%         100%       100%

            Progressivity Index /2          0.26           0.31              0.09            0.10           0.21            -0.16            0.39
        % of investments per sector:        100%               0.2%             7.2%           3.8%          75.7%               1.6%        11.4%
       Notas.1/ Due to the relative size of some municipalities - like the Distrito Central and San Pedro Sula- it was impossible to construct quintiles
       that have exactly 20% of the population in each. The share of each quintile presented above is presented in the last column of the table above.
       2/ This index takes on a value between -1 and +1. A value of 0 indicates a neutral distributional impact. The higher the index, the more
       progressive is the distribution of resources (that is, the larger is the share of the resources that benefit the poorest quintiles). In extremis, if all
       resources were given to the poorest quintile, the index takes on the value of +1; and if all resources go to the least poor quintile the value is -1.




In addition, an index measures how progressive each type of intervention was. The index is 0 if it had no
distributional effect, +1 if the entire investment benefited the poorest quintile, and -1 if the entire investment
accrued to the least poor quintile. The overall index for FHIS is 0.26, indicating that the program was
indeed progressive. This represented an improvement from FHIS 2, which obtained an index of 0.12 using
the same methodology. However, the index varied according to type of intervention. The most progressive
types of investment were those in health (0.39) and the informal sector (0.31); 41 percent of resources
invested in health went to the population of the poorest 20 percent of municipalities. In contrast,
environmental investments had a negative index score (-0.16), which indicated that these investments were
in fact regressive. Less than 2 percent of total resources were, however, used on environmental projects.
Educational investments, accounting for 76 percent of resources, were progressive (with an index of 0.21).

Targeting ­ At the level of households

While the above took a geographic approach to targeting (i.e., at the municipal level), the evaluation also
looked at targeting at the household level. Table 2 shows the participation of each decile of the population
in FHIS, disaggregated by type of intervention. As expected, there was a strong concentration of
beneficiaries in the poorest deciles, while few households in the least poor deciles benefited from the
investments.




                                                                           - 41 -

    Table 2. Distribution of FHIS resources 1998-2002, household level ­ based on potential beneficiaries
                                                                                                                                         Progre
                                                                                                                             Weight      ssivity
           Deciles:       1        2        3        4        5          6         7        8        9    10     Total         /1         Index

                                     Weighted participation of the deciles in FHIS investments

    Water               15.0      17.1     4.9      7.0     11.5       17.9      19.8      1.1      4.1   1.5     100.0       3.1%        0.19

    Education            9.3      17.8    13.6      6.9     20.6        9.4       8.7      6.6      4.2   2.9     100.0       64.5%       0.19

    Roads               20.1      12.3     6.6     11.5     15.2       13.3       9.1      5.0      4.9   2.0     100.0       18.6%       0.23

    Pisos seg           16.9      12.6    12.2     10.8     23.5        9.8       7.2      4.3      2.3   0.4     100.0       1.6%        0.28

    Latrines            32.5      19.1    15.5      9.8      7.1        5.9       3.5      4.0      2.0   0.6     100.0       6.7%        0.48

    Health              24.2      23.7    14.3      7.8     10.1        7.0       2.1      6.3      2.4   2.1     100.0       5.5%        0.41

    Total               14.0      17.1    12.2      8.1     17.9       10.0       8.4      5.9      4.0   2.5     100.0       100%        0.23
    Sources: Household survey of the per capita income of FHIS beneficiaries, MIS of the FHIS for information on investments in each
    project and sub-sector; and data from INE to define the national distributional deciles of the population.
    Note: 1/ The weight used in this table is based on the participation in each sub-project of the sample used for the household survey.
    Because of this it differs from the % of resources by sector listed in the final row of table 1 above which reports the global distribution
    of
    all FHIS investments evaluated in this study, except reconstruction




This table also shows a progressivity index, which was also calculated for each type of investment, similar
to the one used in the geographic analysis. For all investments, FHIS 3 had a progressivity index of 0.23,
which, when compared to that of FHIS 2 (0.21), showed a slight improvement in the targeting of
investments towards the poorest households. Overall, 31 percent of project investments benefited the
poorest 20 percent of the population while 69 percent benefited the poorest half. The richest 10 percent
benefited from only 6 percent of the FHIS 3 investments. The most progressive investments were those in
latrines and health, while investments in water and education were the least progressive. For health
projects, 48 percent of investments benefited the poorest 20 percent, while for education 27 percent of
investments benefited the poorest 20 percent.

The relatively neutral distribution of investments in water and education suggests that projects were
implemented in places where the population was not always among the poorest. One possible hypothesis is
that local decision makers gave priority to larger communities, postponing projects in more isolated and
smaller communities. Projects would also be more expensive in the latter. Consequently, the evaluation
report recommends looking into local decision-making processes for water and education projects. A
significant portion (20 percent) of beneficiaries of education projects was in the fifth decile. It should be
noted that the education authorities already had decided that the dispersion of primary schools was
surpassing what is efficient, and that future investments should rationalize and focus on creating
educational centers, where the student body could reach a level that assures efficient teaching. Given this
context, the report recommends that it might be worth looking into other interventions (roads) that could
help connect poorer, more disperse communities to these centers. The report also expresses a concern
about the fact that the beneficiaries of floor improvement projects were concentrated in the middle of the
income distribution. It considered that this was probably because most beneficiaries of these types of
projects lived in semi-urban or peri-urban communities, while the majority of households in the poorest
deciles were located in rural areas. The report recommends promoting floor improvement projects in rural
areas.

Changes in the "Unmet Basic Needs" Index




                                                                      - 42 -

The evaluation of FHIS 3 also looked at the evolution of an indicator of Unmet Basic Needs (UBN). The
index is based on access to water, sewerage and primary schooling, ability for subsistence, and housing and
living conditions.

The FHIS 2 evaluation showed a sustained tendency for the percentage of households without any UBN to
rise - more strongly so in urban areas. During the FHIS 3 period, the rate of increase in the percentage of
households with all basic needs met not only fell, but turned negative (-8 percent). Of course, Hurricane
Mitch had an important effect, and the rate of change turned negative in 1999, the year after the hurricane
hit. Still, this negative trend continued in the following years. A look at the trend for rural and urban areas
separately shows that the negative trend mostly affected rural areas. When comparing 1997 with 2002, we
see that the number of households that had no UBN fell by 3 percent in urban areas and by 21 percent in
rural areas. Overall, this shows that the country had not yet recovered from the damage of Hurricane Mitch
by 2002.

Expansion of Social Infrastructure Coverage

While the above section showed how Hurricane Mitch made the efforts of FHIS 3 `invisible', this section
provides more pertinent evidence of the impact of FHIS 3 on social infrastructure coverage. FHIS 3
consisted in reality of two sub-periods: the first one related to the national reconstruction after the hurricane
and the second during which resources were being invested again as initially intended ­ to increase the
coverage of social infrastructure.

Primary Schools: Both primary schools and available classrooms increased over the 1998-2002 period.
The number of schools increased by 20 percent (compared to an increase of 11 percent during the 1994-98
period) and the number of classrooms increased by 30 percent (compared to 15 percent during1994-98). It
is important to note, however, that estimates of educational facilities in 1998 are not entirely reliable. The
number of teachers grew at a slower pace ­ 3 percent over the 1998-2002 period. These trends resulted in
higher teacher-student ratios (up by 12 percent, whereas the ratios fell by 16 percent during FHIS 2), but
lower student-classroom ratios (down by 12 percent). The achievements of FHIS 3 were even more
impressive when taking into account the damage done to educational facilities by Hurricane Mitch in 1998
and the resources dedicated to the reconstruction.

Rural Health Centers: From 1998 to 2002, FHIS built 128 CESAR and 35 CESAMO health centers. This
represents 81 percent of all new CESAR centers and 97 percent of all new CESAMO centers built during
this period.

Potable Water: Hurricane Mitch had a particularly negative effect on rural water systems, as shown by the
increase in households which did not have access to potable water, which increased from 8 percent in 1997
to 20 percent in 2002. During the period 1998-2002, 125,132 households were given access to potable
water, and FHIS contributed to about 40 percent of this increase. FHIS 3 was particularly important in
urban areas, where it financed 63 out of 103 water projects. The water projects included both the
construction of new systems and the rehabilitation of old systems. In terms of connecting new households,
FHIS was responsible for 11 percent of new connections in rural areas and 100 percent of new connections
in urban areas.

Latrines and sanitation: The impact of Mitch was less noticeable in this sector, as the number of
households with unmet needs increased by only 2 percent (from 17 percent to 19 percent) over the
1997-2000 period. Again, the impact of FHIS was stronger in urban areas than rural ones, where the
program SANAA-USAID was heavily involved. The number of households benefiting from FHIS 3


                                                      - 43 -

projects is shown in Table 4.


  Table4.Beneficiariesof FHIS3SewerageProjects:1999-2002
                                                                      Total Estimateof
                                     Total     Total    Total   Total all   households
                                     1999      2000     2001    2002  years connected

  Newseweragesystems          Rural                          900   0     900       180
  constructed                 Urban    18,070     7,430    2,300   0  27,800     6,950

                              Total    18,070     7,430    3,200   0  28,700     7,130

                              Rural                          600   0     600        40
  Rehabilitation/expansionof
  accesstosewerage            Urban    14,520    13,400    2,434   0  30,354     2,530

                              Total    14,520    13,400    3,034   0  30,954     2,570

                              Rural        0         0     1,500   0   1,500       220
  Bothtypesofprojects         Urban    32,590    20,830    4,734   0  58,154     9,480

                              Total    32,590    20,830    6,234   0  59,654     9,700

  Source:SIG-FHIS



During the FHIS 3 period, 71 percent of the population felt they were consulted during the participatory
process consisting in selecting the projects of community interest versus 50 percent during the FHIS 2
phase. As a result, not only did the access to infrastructure increase but it also responded to the needs
expressed by the population

Quality Dimensions of Interventions and Facilities

The quality of works from FHIS 3 was compared with that found for FHIS 2, and facilities built under the
former were generally found to have a higher percentage of acceptable quality. Education and potable
water facilities built under FHIS 3 scored high in terms of the quality of construction. The percentage of
works that had an acceptable quality increased for health centers and latrines, and only in a few cases
(health centers) was found to be poor. In terms of maintenance, the situation was generally acceptable;
however, one-fifth of schools and health centers reported deficient maintenance, in particular in terms of
electricity and sanitation. Supervision of projects is an area in which the FHIS has been struggling. A
comparison of project managers' opinions of the quality of supervision during FHIS 3 with those reported
for FHIS 2 suggests that the quality of supervision in health and education projects had improved, while it
needed to be improved for water and sanitation. Under FHIS 2, the majority of projects reported having
deficient supervision, while under FHIS 3, 41 percent reported having received good supervision.

FHIS was instrumental both in the reconstruction and in the building of new schools. According to FHIS'
MIS, the program contributed to the improvement of about one-fourth of classrooms between 2001 and
2002. Health centers were also built, in addition to the reconstruction of damaged ones ­ an effort in which
FHIS was practically the sole contributor. In terms of water, indicators show coverage regressed to levels
of the 1980s; however, with only 4 percent of its total investments, FHIS contributed to nearly half of
connections and installations built ­ principally in urban areas. The damage caused by hurricane Mitch
needs to be taken into account to give a just evaluation of the impact of FHIS 3. The above information
shows that the number of schools recovered and slightly improved during the 1998-2002 period.




                                                       - 44 -

FHIS and Indicators of Social Development

Social development means positive outcomes in terms of education, health, and sanitation that came about
as a result of social infrastructure improvements. The hypothesis tested was that FHIS contributed to
improving the social development indicators related to the areas in which it intervened.

Comparison of "ex-ante" and "ex-post"

The comparison of the situation in communities with FHIS projects before and after project implication
confirms the hypothesis that FHIS positively affects indicators of social development.

Education: The hypotheses tested were that (i) FHIS' intervention in the primary school of a community
will result in an increase in school attendance of children ages 6-12; and (ii) the age-to-grade percentage
improves (i.e., the percentage of children enrolled in the grade corresponding to their age increases).
Evidence showed that school assistance increased by 9 percent by 2004, while the children enrolled in the
grade corresponding to their age increased by 19 percent.

Health: With respect to health, the hypotheses tested were: (i) the construction or improvement of the health
center results in an increase in the rate of use of health services; and (ii) as part of this increase in rate of
use, health services will reach a particularly important group ­ pregnant women. Also in this case, evidence
showed that the percentage of people facing a severe health problem who sought assistance from a health
center increased by 14 percent, while the percentage of pregnant women who had made control visits to a
health center increased by 11 percent. Staffing of health centers built by FHIS during the 1998-2002 period
improved considerably compared to the earlier periods: all health centers built between 1998 and 2002 in
the sample survey had at least one doctor, in most cases with nurses, while this was not the case before
1998.

Water: When evaluating the impact of projects in the area of water, two hypotheses were tested: (i) the
project improves coverage and quality of water services; and (ii) an increase in the percentage of
households that uses some form of cleaning the water (by boiling, filtering or other). Again, this was the
case. The percentage of households with running water increased by 4 percent. However, this resulted in
fewer households resorting to risky water sources, as well as savings for households that no longer do so.
The quality/reliability of the services also improved. The percentage of households that consumed water
more safely (in terms of treating it) also increased by 11 percent.

Sanitation: For latrines and sewerage, the hypotheses tested were that the coverage, quality, and use of
services would increase, and that the percentage of people who had suffered from diarrhea the month before
the survey was reduced. Again, this was the case. For instance, the percentage of households reporting
problems with the functioning of latrines fell from 92 percent to 65 percent. Evidence of a reduction in the
incidence of diarrhea proved more complicated to interpret, both because of the relationship with access to
water and because the incidence was already low at the beginning of the period (1998).

Comparisons of communities "with and without program"

This analysis is based on the comparison of communities that received FHIS projects and communities that
did not, and further strengthens the above described hypotheses.

Education: The hypothesis is that communities with FHIS show better coverage and results for primary
education. While 100 percent of children in communities with a FHIS project attended primary school in


                                                     - 45 -

2004, the number for communities that did not was 93 percent. During FHIS 2, the same comparison
showed that 89 percent of children in both types of communities attended school. This indicates that while
school attendance was increasing in general, it was increasing faster in FHIS communities. In other words,
the findings suggest that FHIS increased the probability that a child attends school. In terms of improved
age-to-grade, a smaller percentage of children in FHIS communities attend a grade different than the one
corresponding to their age (41 percent compared to 49 percent). This indicates reduced repetition and a
higher ability to keep children in school. Due to the increase in the number of classrooms, indicators in
FHIS-communities improved compared to the national averages in terms of teacher/student,
teachers/classrooms, and student/classrooms. An important problem in the education sector continues to be
the lack of didactic materials and scholastic furniture. The FHIS impact evaluation showed, however, that
the lack is much lower in FHIS than in non-FHIS communities: (30% vs 46% for the didactic materials,
and 20% vs 46% for the furniture).

Health: Again, the hypothesis tested is that FHIS increases the use of health services, and that this is true in
particular among pregnant women. The study shows that the percentage of people facing serious health
problems, and that seeks assistance from a health center, was 6 percent higher in FHIS communities than in
communities not covered by the program. The percentage of pregnant women attending health centers was
high in both control and treatment communities, but slightly higher in FHIS communities. Also, local health
clinics attracted more of the women attending health visits throughout their pregnancy than local health
centers in communities without FHIS (73 percent compared to 63 percent). Additionally, the comparison
between FHIS- and non-FHIS health facilities shows that, in general, FHIS communities are better off in
terms of staffing (adequacy of staffing is the main problem in 23% of the health centers in FHIS
communities vs 40% in non-FHIS communities), quality of the facilities (17% in FHIS communities vs
33% in non-FHIS communities), availability of potable water, etc.

Water: In FHIS communities, 92 percent of households had running water, compared to only 36 percent of
households in control communities. Of the 8 percent without access to water in communities with FHIS,
only 28 percent reported this being due to lack of service offered. The cost of water is, however, higher
among the treatment group (more than twice as high), which is related to differences in the alternative water
sources the two groups resort to. Findings are not clear on the quality of the water. Households in the
treatment group tended to consume more untreated water then households in the control group, but the
reasons for this are uncertain. Given the problems of testing the hypothesis that FHIS' water projects
reduce the incidence of diarrhea (low incidence of diarrhea and no apparent effect of FHIS), a regression
analysis for this was not carried out.

3.      CONCLUSIONS

The main conclusions of the evaluation are: (i) n terms of targeting, FHIS 3 achieved important progress
in terms of how progressive the investments were and in terms of the participation of the community in the
selection and execution of projects; (ii) n terms of impact, FHIS 3 has been an important actor in the
national expansion of social infrastructure, with works of acceptable quality and function. A positive
impact of the program on the beneficiary population is found in the areas of health, education, and sanitary
conditions; (iii) the magnitude of the impact of Hurricane Mitch has hindered a more efficient intervention.




                                                     - 46 -

Additional Annex 9. Pilot Social Assistance Program (FIDAS)

This annex summarizes the findings from an evaluation of the pilot FIDAS program, carried out by a local
consultant in 2005/06. FIDAS is a program that aims at reaching special needs groups and vulnerable
groups, managed by the Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social (FHIS).

1. Scope and Methodology of the Evaluation


The evaluation reviewed the program and its operation during the period 2001-2005 and applied an ex-post
evaluation of 18 out of a total of 102 projects funded. The methodology applied was that of case studies.
The ability to conduct any kind of rigid evaluation exercise was constrained by limited program
documentation and the absence of an efficient monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system. It was thus
difficult to make relevant comparisons. However, the systematic collection and registration of information
carried out for the study helped answer some of the important questions regarding the efficiency and
outcomes of FIDAS.

2. FIDAS Projects and Executing Agencies


FIDAS intervened at the national, departmental, municipal and community levels through 4 different types
of executing agencies: NGOs, community organizations, associations of beneficiaries, and churches. The
most common agencies were NGOs, followed by associations of beneficiaries and community organizations
(see fig. 1). Churches executed only 5 percent of FIDAS' projects.

In terms of the target groups, NGOs also accounted for the majority of projects for each group (see fig. 2).
For the disabled and elderly, associations of beneficiaries accounted for the second higher share of projects,
while churches were the second most important actor in dealing with children at risk.


               Fig.1 Types of executing agencies, by level of participation
                                (% of projects executed)



                                                             NGOs
       15.1%         4.9%


                                                             Associations of beneficiaries


 16.0%
                                             64.0%           Communitarian
                                                             organizations

                                                             Churches




                                                        - 47 -

                               Fig. 2 Executing Agencies by Groups Attended
                                    (share of projects within each group)


      100%

      80%
                                                                              Churches
      60%                                                                     Communitarian organizations

      40%                                                                     Associations of beneficiaries

                                                                              NGOs
      20%

        0%
                   Disabled           Children at risk          Elderly




3. Innovative Solutions for the Inclusion of Special Needs Groups


The report highlights how FIDAS contributed to institutional strengthening via capacity building and
training. According to representatives of the executing agencies, the requirements of FIDAS helped them
create administrative systems that were much better than the ones they had used earlier. Also, the
introduction of a gender perspective helped the agencies advance in terms of their conceptual and
methodological thinking. One of the achievements of the program was to create an institutional platform
conducive to new and innovative approaches such as: (i) the `discovery' of the inclusion/exclusion
paradigm, which improves the understanding of special needs groups; (ii) a methodology for fostering local
volunteers that includes a system of capacity building; (iii) inovative and high-quality training material for
micro-enterprises, especially targeting special needs groups; (iv) a system of capacity building that includes
modules on self-esteem, obligations and rights, gender issues, technical training, and rehabilitation; (v) a
methodology for articulating community organization in education, focusing on the contribution of parents
to their children's school achievement, ­ especially for children with special needs.

The beneficiaries from different special needs and vulnerable groups also noted the positive impact FIDAS
had on their lives, in particular through training and capacity building. Opinions voiced by beneficiaries in
individual interviews and focus groups showed that these capacity building exercises had led to better
self-esteem. With respect to gender, the interviews also revealed a change within families as children,
husbands and partners showed more respect for women. Extensive training in the area of personal
improvement (e.g., self-esteem, personal achievement, and leadership) was provided to help participants
discover their potential. However, only limited resources were put into vocational or technical training to
increase employability. The few that did were for instance those carried out by NGOs that later offered
micro credit.

4. The Sustainability of the FIDAS Strategy and Projects


The report reviews two different `kinds' of sustainability. First, sustainability in terms of the
institutionalization and continued diffusion of the FIDAS concept, i.e., to specifically target vulnerable and
special needs groups, which depends on the ability to finance projects aimed at these groups. Second,
sustainability of the individual projects financed under FIDAS; 95 percent of the executing agencies
maintained that they will face problems of sustainability due to lack of resources, but that they would seek



                                                       - 48 -

ways and strategic alliances to continue their operations. During FIDAS' capacity building, the executing
agencies were introduced to strategic and operational planning tools and administrative systems. Each of
the projects had developed a sustainability plan with different levels of implementation, which included
alternative and complementary actions to continue the promotion of the objectives and operations of the
associations.

5. Can the Experience of FIDAS Be Replicated?


The report concludes that the FIDAS model could be applied elsewhere due to its innovative approach,
methodology, and positive outcome ­ above all in terms of institutional strengthening. However, it would
need a more systematized collection and presentation of information regarding the tools and methodologies
developed by the program. The report suggests creating an `Information, Communication and Education'
component within FIDAS, responsible for gathering this information and making it public.

6. Summary and Lessons Learned

The main strengths of the program were its conceptual framework and the positive outcomes of capacity
building. The conceptual framework introduced by FIDAS changed the line of action of NGOs and other
groups. While the concepts of special needs groups and social inclusion/exclusion were not new, FIDAS
managed to operationalize the different `loose threads', i.e., the different concepts, methodologies,
techniques, and tools. Furthermore, the program brought together diverse institutions working towards the
same objectives, and increased their ability to create opportunities for their target populations. The way in
which projects were selected and executed assured the continued development of skills in the executing
agencies and personnel/volunteers. The process began with a call for applications made public through a
massive communication campaign. Associations that responded immediately entered into the learning
process as short-listed candidates received assistance in preparing their project proposals. Later in the
process, capacity building continued with the need to write implementation and final reports and to provide
diagnostics of the projects' target populations. More importantly, the professionals and volunteers of the
executing agencies were taught how to work with and adopt new concepts and tools, applying these to
provide opportunities to people formerly excluded. Statements from participants at all levels indicate that
the outcome of this capacity building goes beyond the benefit of each individual or any specific project. The
report finds that it resulted in a `collective' transformation which leads to the creation of social capital.
Furthermore, working with local teams increased the effectiveness and the sustainability of interventions, as
local people felt they had a stake in the projects.

The main weaknesses of FIDAS were its lack of supervision, monitoring and evaluation (M&E); as well as
the limited number of projects that provided technical training and labor insertion programs. Implementing
a more rigid M&E system and stepping up efforts in terms of labor market programs are key challenges for
the program's future. Executing agencies also met with a series of difficulties or limitations, mostly
because of external factors. These included: (i) delays in receiving project funds from the Government; (ii)
the national and international bureaucracy involved in the disbursement of funds; (iii) short-term financing,
which led to difficulties in consolidation initiatives; (iv) lack of sufficient time to plan, evaluate, and
consolidate the most innovative proposals or changes (including the follow-up of projects aimed at labor
market insertion and the creation of micro-enterprises); and (v) lack of documentation on the projects by
the executive agencies.




                                                     - 49 -

Additional Annex 10. "Nuestras Raíces" Pilot Program

This annex provides a summary of the report Evaluación del Programa "Nuestras Raíces" ETAPA ­ IV,
which was carried out by a local consultant over the period June 2001 to May 2002.

1. INTRODUCTION

The pilot program promoted the productive, social, and cultural capital of the indigenous and black
population groups in Honduras. During the fourth stage, the program approved a total of 4,168
micro-projects proposed by the communities, benefiting about 125,040 families, of which half were Lenca,
18 percent were Misquitos, 17 percent Garífunas, 5 percent Tolupanes; the remaining 9 percent was
divided between the Chortis, Nahhuas, English-speaking blacks, Pech, and Tawahkas.

The program was implemented as follows:
·        A work group from the community was in charge of the project, and the daily wages of members of
         the group were financed by the program. Each project had an average cost of 27,000 lempiras, and
         the entire amount went to pay the labor force employed for the project.
·        The ethnic federations played an important role. Supervision groups were made up of one
         individual assigned by FHIS (FHIS liaison) and another assigned by the Ethnic Federations (ethnic
         liaison). The Supervision groups were hired for two months, and each group supervised 10 micro
         projects. The ethnic liaison was hired for another month to help establish sustainability measures.
·        Training was provided to group coordinators, FHIS liaisons, ethnic liaisons, and the ethnic
federations.

The expected outcomes of the program were: (i) benefits to the communities from investments in
small-scale infrastructure, selected in accordance with the communities' priorities; (ii) the creation and
strengthening of rural credit and savings associations; and (iii) improved social capital in the communities.

2. EVALUATION RESULTS

Targeting the poorest communities and households: The program effectively targeted the poorest
households and communities. This was tested in the report by using income and unmet basic needs (UBN)
indicators. Good targeting was to be expected as the program focused on indigenous communities ­
characterized by their isolation, lack of institutional support, and historically high levels of extreme
poverty. The evaluation found that 73 percent of the beneficiary population of the program was in the three
lowest deciles of the income distribution, while only about 50 percent of Honduras' rural population was.
In terms of poverty definitions based on UBN, while 41 percent of the Honduran population is considered
poor (i.e., has at least one UBN), the percentage increases to 58 percent for the rural population and 68
percent for the beneficiaries of the program. When separating findings by ethnic groups, the report shows
that targeting was most efficient for the Lencas and Misquitos, and least efficient among the Garífunas.

Financing projects prioritized by the communities themselves: The report mentions that the projects do
indeed correspond to the needs expressed by the communities. Indicators show that the majority of
households participated in the selection of projects. In 92 percent of the projects, the community or the
communal authorities were the principal protagonists in the project selection. The qualitative study did
however indicate that in some cases the ethnic federations were the most active agents in the identification
and selection of projects, while communal assemblies were limited to ratifying these. Further, the number
of households directly benefiting from the projects, i.e., who worked and received daily wages for their



                                                     - 50 -

labor on the projects, was high (about 82 percent of households in beneficiary communities). The average
number of days worked per community was 22, while average income varied between 985 lempiras for the
Garífunas and 2,886 for the Misquitos. Misquitos and English-speaking blacks received double the daily
pay of others due to the high cost of living that characterizes the areas where they live. The qualitative
study showed that some community members suggested that the entire labor force in the communities
should have been involved. There were also some problems identified in the formation of work groups,
including: problems of notification, conflicts with other work or agricultural schedules, absent husbands
who needed to be consulted for their wives to participate, lack of identification papers, and, to a lesser
degree, favoritism of group coordinators towards certain households. Still, 76 percent of the population in
beneficiary communities benefited or hoped to benefit from the physical infrastructure installations. In
addition, the direct benefit of the wages received during the project phase was important. The majority of
this additional income was used for subsistence, but 6 percent ­ 106 lempiras on average per households ­
was saved.

Generating effective mechanisms for strengthening social capital in the communities and providing
appropriate training: The communities' trust in participating organizations increased, benefiting not only
FHIS but also NGOs, ethnic federations and others. However, the demand for projects to reinforce the
ethnic identity of the communities was low and there was no evidence of communities engaging actively in
negotiating new projects. The communities expected program resources to be renewed to continue
executing mini-projects. The majority of the project coordinators received training, which they qualified as
`excellent'. Once trained, the coordinators held assemblies in their communities to explain projects and the
functioning of the Cajas Rurales (savings associations).

Establish and reinforce savings associations that will function as effective mechanisms for the promotion
of a `culture of saving': With the income earned by community members during the project
implementation, Cajas Rurales were set up in 56 percent of the work groups. Adding to this, in 22 percent
of the groups a savings association was already in place. In 69 percent of the cases, the savings services
were open to the entire community, while in 19 percent access was extended to nearby communities. The
resources used to establish new savings associations came primarily from income earned from work in
micro-projects.    The administration of the Cajas Rurales was affected by the lack of documentation and
the absence of a regulatory framework. While a review of the operations of the Cajas Rurales showed that
there were areas of improvement, people thought differently: 50 percent of the people interviewed qualified
them as excellent.

Gender equality in the implementation of the program: In general, the participation of men and women in
the micro-project was equal in terms of the selection of projects, number of days worked, and wages
earned. People also perceived that women had been given the same opportunity to participate in the projects
as men. Women also participated heavily in the leadership positions of the work groups (60 percent), and
were over-represented in the leadership of the Cajas Rurales. Still, some problems were identified in a
more detailed analysis of the savings and credit functions. Most alarming among these was the fact that
only 10 percent of female members of Cajas Rurales reported having received credit, compared to 32
percent of the men.

3. CONCLUSIONS

The program proposed several diverse objectives in terms of impact and some were difficult to achieve
through the two central components of the program: the financing of micro-projects and training. The
program operated in essence as a cash-transfer program, targeting indigenous communities in which
benefits are delivered through the financing of labor-intensive infrastructure projects. The program was


                                                    - 51 -

well targeted and implemented, according to its design. But the evaluation report also points to room for
improvement.

The strengths of the program were in its capacity to: (i) target populations in extreme poverty; (ii)
coordinate with federal indigenous associations, which contributed to legitimizing these and developing
their ability to administer development projects; (iii) identify micro-projects in accordance with the priority
of the communities; (iv) organize and mobilize communities in the execution of projects, while
strengthening gender equality and solidarity with other vulnerable groups; (v) execute the construction of
basic infrastructure and communication links that satisfied the needs of the communities; (vi) rganize
Cajas Rurales and/or other productive initiatives.

Rooms for improvement were: (i) limited resources for the labor costs, which diminished the probability of
communities selecting more durable projects; (ii) insufficient training, which affected in particular the
communal organization for maintenance purposes and the operation and management of the Cajas Rurales,
as well as community members' understanding of their functioning; (iii) the model of combining
micro-projects with Cajas Rurales created confusion among the populations, as they interpreted the
sustainability of the savings associations as a function of the continuance and renewal of micro-projects.




                                                     - 52 -

Additional Annex 11. Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural Water and Sanitation Services

Description

The subcomponent was expected to provide technical assistance, training, and supplemental subproject
financing to develop and test innovative methodologies and creative partnerships aimed at improving
attention to rural communities' needs for water systems and the sustainability of such investments, and at
drawing lessons for improved attention to, and sectoral coordination in, the water sector. It aimed at
demand-responsiveness, cost recovery, and community control in the subproject cycle, relying significantly
on the involvement of local governments, NGOs, and private service providers. To achieve this, it was to:
(i) finance the needs expressed by communities through the 1998 municipal plans, and ensure quality of
subprojects by applying ex-ante and ex-post evaluation with different criteria for urban and rural projects;
and (ii) support a pilot in dispersed rural areas, using different methodologies and options for institutional
arrangements and a demand-driven approach, in association with the sector coordination body (Grupo
Colaborativo). A consultative process between FHIS and key players in the sector decided upon three types
of possible institutional arrangements: (a) delegation of the subproject cycle to municipalities; (b)
contracting of NGOs or firms to work in partnership with communities from the beginning to the end of the
subproject cycle; and (c) contracting of the communities themselves, which, in turn, could subcontract
service providers of their choice to execute the subprojects. The implementation of the program consisted of
three phases: (i) capacity building; (ii) implementation of a first group of subprojects; and (iii)
implementation of a second group of subprojects.

Implementation Results

 The subcomponent needed two years to prepare the instruments involved in the first part of the project,
including the development of effective approaches and institutional arrangements for sustainable and cost
effective solutions in the rural water and sanitation sector for disperse communities.           To support
implementation, FHIS also obtained a Euro 9.0 million grant from KfW, of which Euro 1.6 million was
allocated for full-time consulting support. This support helped to accelerate implementation, and to exceed
the outcomes projected at appraisal, including:

        a)   constructing 156 sustainable RWS systems, compared to 100 projected at appraisal, benefiting
             55,816 users, 86 percent      more than the 30,000 initially projected. Furthermore, at the
             completion of the project, FHIS had 150 system designs ready for implementation subject to
             further financial support. Per capita costs of implemented technology options were for: gravity
             systems $121, electric pumping $134, distance pumping $154, rain catchments $172, latrines
             $47, and household reservoirs (pilas) $5, which were close to national averages for comparable
             systems (other projects funded by FHIS use a per capita cost of $150 for water and sanitation
             systems), and
         b) applying tools for quality control at each step of the subproject cycle. These tools included a
             new Operations Manual and guidelines detailing each of the three institutional arrangements,
             as well as the corresponding financial policy. The adoption of ex-ante and ex-post evaluation
             tools increased the efficiency of selecting feasible subprojects (from 242 subprojects submitted
             to FHIS, only 180 passed the ex-ante evaluation on qualification for financing). The ex-post
             evaluation was applied for each system before the end of the quality guaranty included in the
             construction contracts.

Of the three institutional arrangements, the implementation of 36 subprojects was delegated to



                                                     - 53 -

municipalities; 32 subprojects were managed by NGOs or firms to work in partnership with communities
from the beginning to the end of the project cycle; and 58 subprojects were managed by the communities
directly. In addition, 30 subprojects were implemented by FHIS at the request of municipalities with no
institutional management capacity. Participating communities were selected on the basis of: i) the 1998
PISMs priorities, ii) lists submitted by NGOs, and c) FHIS' list of outstanding requests.

Based on the results of the pilot study and following the new Law of Potable Water and Sanitation enacted
in September 2003, which delegates the responsibility for water and sanitation service provision to
municipalities, FHIS adopted the model of delegating the subproject cycle to municipalities. Under this
model, communities manage the full subproject cycle, and municipalities provide technical assistance and
transfer funds to communities (community-implemented projects ­ PEC in Spanish). This implementation
model proved to be the most efficient and appropriate to reach poor, dispersed rural communities with
quality, sustainable water and sanitation services, aided by the high level of community empowerment and14


ownership sense, financial contribution, and commitment to operation and maintenance. However, the PEC
strategy can only be used for subprojects with a cost of less that $50,000, since subprojects with costs
higher than $50,000 have to go through a bidding process.

As a basic policy, all water subprojects were to include provisions for sanitation, plus training in operation
and maintenance and hygiene promotion. Thus, 71 subprojects adopted conventional technologies for water
supply, including gravity feed systems and deep wells; 71 subprojects included non-conventional
technologies, such as rain water catchments, and long distance pumping with handpumps. In addition, 11
subprojects supported the provision of small house water reservoirs (pilas), and 3 subprojects financed
only latrines. Options in sanitation were ventilated improved latrines and water flush latrines.

From June 2003 to August 2004, 37 training activities were organized for the major stakeholders, including
FHIS staff, NGO representatives, mayors, RASHON members, social and technical water sector
professionals, and local masons. Training subjects included the promotion of the pilot subcomponent
objectives and strategies, as well as the presentation of the Operations Manual and ex-ante and ex-post
evaluation tools. Social and technological issues were a core component of training activities.

Funding of the subprojects was similar for all implementation models: communities contributed 30 percent
(including community labor and local building materials), municipalities 5 percent (mostly building
materials), and FHIS 65 percent of the total costs. Cooperation with NGOs resulted in additional
contributions of at least 15 percent of the total cost. These arrangements strengthened FHIS financial
capacity to increase water and sanitation coverage, as well as community participation. All communities
were able to contribute their agreed shares.

FHIS was and is an active member of the Honduras Water and Sanitation Network ­ RASHON (formerly
Grupo Colaborativo). The experience with PEC projects was discussed and documented by FHIS in
association RASHON, and disseminated to all agencies involved in the water sector in March 2004.
Therefore, most members of RASHON are now aware of the benefits of each of the models tested under
this pilot.

Cross-fertilization of FHIS with other sector agencies was a regular practice, and FHIS staff joined a field
trip of sector institutions to Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, where relevant projects were visited. As a result,
innovative experiences with low-cost technology were brought to Honduras, and adopted as standard
options.




                                                     - 54 -

Impact on Sustainability

The institutionalized use of the ex-ante and ex-post instruments allowed FHIS to adopt the full PEC
strategy, thus improving community participation, empowerment and ownership, as well as the quality of
the water and sanitation infrastructure, all key elements for achieving sustainability.

The financial policy of establishing a fee that covers at least operation and maintenance costs, including
chlorination, payments to technicians, tools and spare parts, improved the chance to achieve sustainability.

The responsibility of managing the service by Water User Associations, which are democratically elected
and trained with emphasis on the inclusion of women in relevant positions, strengthened the social auditing
capacity and local capabilities for a sustained service operation and enabled a quick response during
emergencies.

Although it is still too early to assess the impact of training the Water Users Associations in basin
protection, including water catchments, it is expected that the implementation of the recommended practices
will have a positive impact on improving the continuity and quality of the water source.

The promotion of hygiene and health practices, added to the policy to support sanitation with water,
increased the chances for achieving sustainability and impact of the water and sanitation services. The
intermediate evaluation of the project in June 2004 reported that 77 percent of household heads expressed a
willingness to replace latrines at their own expense, indicating that the pilot subcomponent was effective in
promoting the importance of sanitation.

Institutional Impact

The Bank's Social Funds Team of Social Protection (HD) confirmed that not only did the pilot
subcomponent results promot the change of FHIS' systems, but it also changed the national reforms aimed
at strengthening the roles and capacities of municipalities to plan, manage, and maintain local
infrastructure investments by using participatory and transparent methods.20

The agreement signed in 2003 by FHIS with the Alliance of leading NGOs in Honduras (CARE, Save the
Children, Vision Mundial, Plan International, CRS, and Aldea Global) added value to the intervention
models by promoting the adoption of the PEC strategy and ensuring the continued presence of the NGOs in
the strengthening of technical assistance in the field for operation and maintenance after the project cycle
has concluded.

The Technical Cooperation Agreement signed in April 2005 by SANAA, the main water sector normative
agency, and FHIS, to adopt and promote the institutional models recommended by FHIS at the national
level, provides the legal and institutional platform to apply the pilot subcomponent's lessons learned.

The Strategic Program for Modernization of the Water Sector in Honduras (PEMAPS) and the by-law
documents to establish Rural Water Associations were finalized, approved, and are now under
implementation.

The Rural Infrastructure Project launched in February 2006, implemented by FHIS and funded by IDA,
includes water and sanitation subprojects built on the experience of the SIF V Project, scaling up the work
with municipalities and lessons learned in innovative technologies for dispersed rural households, cost



                                                      - 55 -

recovery, and community contracting of subprojects.

Lessons Learned

Poor rural dispersed communities have the will, and are able, to significantly share costs for water and
sanitation services, if they have the chance to participate in the full process of subproject implementation in
leading positions such as social auditors, managers, and representatives responsible for operation and
maintenance.

The relationship and cross-fertilization with public water sector institutions and NGOs, through RASHON,
enriched the pilot subcomponent strategy, and became a channel to quickly disseminate the pilot results in
the sector, as well as, the scaling up of new investments.

The adoption of the ex-ante and ex-post evaluation tools significantly contributed to improve the
implementation of water services and quality of infrastructure, including the revision and reduction of the
per capita cost of the technical options proposed.

The financing of the subproject in close cooperation with KfW made it possible to share comparative
advantages, increase the number of communities participating in the pilot, and speed up the implementation
and scaling up of the pilot findings.

The concept paper for evaluating and documenting a pilot project or component needs to be prepared early
in the project, including the pilot design and the physical, economic, and social indicators to be studied. The
Operations Manual should include not only the description of models to be implemented, but also scientific
methodologies to evaluate the performance of each model. Since FHIS is strongly focused on the
implementation of subprojects, it would have been advisable to contract, at the start, the services of an
external consultant or firm trained in monitoring and evaluation to process the information generated by the
project and to document the implementation and results of the pilot.




                                                     - 56 -

Additional Annex 12. Poverty Ranking by Municipality Category and Sector

This Table shows the breakdown of sectoral and per capita investments by municipal category
relative to their poverty level and using the amount actually disbursed.

Poverty Ranking                 Sector             Population  Amount Disbursed Per capita
                                                                   (US$)        Investment
                                                                                relative to
                                                                                 amount
                                                                                disbursed
                                                                                  (US$)
   Acceptable      Water and Sanitation             3,490,731      2,097,052.37        0.60
 (Poverty index
  less than 25)
                  Support to the informal sector                     180,669.02        0.05
                  Social Assistance                                8,111,871.75        2.32
                  Goods and Consultancy work                         139,430.46        0.04
                  Education                                       27,321,030.01        7.83
                  Environment                                         99,112.82        0.03
                  Multisectoral                                       57,086.93        0.02
                  Municipal                                        4,543,916.71        1.30
                  Others                                             376,986.73        0.11
                  Health                                           5,837,279.09        1.67
SubTotal                                                          48,764,435.88       13.97
Regular (Poverty   Water and Sanitation             1,114,749      2,690,018.56        2.41
 index between
     25 y 35)
                  Support to the informal sector                      58,109.07        0.05
                  Social Assistance                                2,769,550.29        2.48
                  Goods and Consultancy work                               0.00        0.00
                  Education                                       14,650,148.63       13.14
                  Multisectoral                                       95,722.45        0.83
                  Municipal                                        2,627,451.20        2.36
                  Others                                              2,037,825        2.21
                  Health                                           2,917,739.31        2.62
SubTotal                                                          27,846,564.51       24.98
    Deficient      Water and Sanitation             841,087        2,298,890.88        2.73
 (Poverty Index
between 35 and
       45)
                  Support to the informal sector                      36,664.59        0.04
                  Social Assistance                                5,167,602.59        6.14
                  Education                                       15,270,440.90       18.55
                  Multisectoral                                       39,608.09        0.05
                  Municipal                                          764,038.80        0.90
                  Others                                             455,224.61        0.54
                  Health                                           3,321,593.98        3.94
SubTotal                                                          27,188,066.44       32.32
 Poor (Poverty     Water and Sanitation             227,385        1,005,704.07        4.42
 Index between
   45 and 55)
                  Support to the informal sector                       44557.03        0.19
                  Social Assistance                                  703,841.33        3.09
                  Education                                        5,579,525.26       24.54
                  Multisectoral                                      710,797.33        3.12
                  Municipal                                           1,182,540        5.20
                  Others                                           2,992,758.40       13.16
                  Health                                           1,387,819.94        6.10
SubTotal                                                          13,607,543.80       59.84
 Extremely Poor    Water and Sanitation              20,374           29,111.78        1.43




                                                      - 57 -

(Poverty Index
   above 55)
                Social Assistance                             231,996.99     11.39
                Education                                     800,722.50     39.30
                Multisectoral                                   2,008.13     0.10
                Municipal                                      18,238.73     0.90
                Others                                         39,289.46     1.93
                Health                                        125,566.76     6.16
SubTotal                                                    1,246,934.34     61.20
   Various       Water and Sanitation         1,108,737       107,522.80     0.10
 Municipalities
                Social Assistance                             425,137.05     0.38
                Goods and consultancy work                    150,027.32     0.14
                Education                                   1,598,292.19     1.44
                Municipal                                     102,657.92     0.09
                Others                                  673,490.83           0.61

SubTotal                                                    3,057,128.11     2.76
Grand Total                                                121,710,673.47




                                                - 58 -

- 59 -

