Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21355-HO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 47.1 MILLION (US$60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
November 20, 2000
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CU!,aENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 31, 2000)
Currency Unit = Honduran Lempira (HNL)
1 L = US$0.07
US$1.00 = L 14.87
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMHON                      Association of Honduran Municipalities
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
DGATM                      Directorate General of Technical Assistance (Direcci6n General de Asesoria Tdcnica a los Municipios)
DMA                        Environment Unit (Direcci6n de Medio Ambiente)
FHIS                       Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureho de Inversi6n Sociat)
FIDAS                       Social Assistance Innovations Fund
FM                          Financial Management
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GIS                        Geographical Information System
GNP                        Gross National Product
GOH                         Government of Honduras
IBRD                       Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                        Intemational Competitive Bidding
IDA                         Intemational Development Association
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
IHNFA                      Honduran Institute for Child and Family Welfare
ILO                        Intemational Labor Organization
IPRSP                      Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
KfW                        German Credit Institute for Reconstruction (Kreditanstalt if  Wiederaujbau)
LACI                       Loan Administration Change Initiative
M&E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS                        Management Information System
MOE                        Ministry of Education
MOH                        Ministry of Health
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
PAHO                        Pan American Health Organization
PIP                         Project Implementation Plan
PISM                        Mfunicipal Social Investment Plan (Plan de Inversi6n Social Municipal)
PRAF                       Family Assistance Program (Programa de Asistencia Familiar)
PROHECO                    Honduran Project for Community Education (Proyecto Hondurefio de Educaci6n Comunitaria)
PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
RWS                         Rural Water and Sanitation
SANAA                      National Water Authority (Servicio Aut6nomo Nacional de Acueductosy Alcantarillados)
SERNA                      Secretariat of Natural of Natural Resources and the Environment
SIDA                       Swedish Intemational Development Agency
SIF/SF                     Social Investinent Fund
SOE                         Statement of Expenditure
UNICEF                     United Nations International Children and Education Fund
WB                         World Bank
Vice President:         David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:             Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:            Ana-Maria Arriagada
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   David Warren



HONDURAS
FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                     2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         16
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                        18
3. Technical                                                                        19
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   25
2. Critical risks                                                                   26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  -28



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           28
2. Other                                                                             28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        38
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          39
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   43
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  54
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 56
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           57
Annex 11: Nuestras Raices IV - Social and Institutional Analysis                        59
Annex 12: Water Supply and Sanitation                                                   70
Annex 13: Local Institutional Strengthening                                             83
MAP(S)
Location of Ethnic Groups
FH[S Poverty Map



HONDURAS
FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSHS
Date: November 20, 2000                           Team Leader: David Seth Warren
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo     Sector Manager/Director: Xavier E. Coll
Project ID: P064895                               Sector(s): SF - Social Funds
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    PXQ Credit    [ Grant      [I Guarantee      [] Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): SDR47.1 million/US$60 million equivalent
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0 - 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Sourceo,                                                     n <  7. Loca 7W  ,Foreign
GOVERNMENT                                                    26.13            1.92         28.05
IDA                                                           47.33           12.67         60.00
INTER-AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                               48.00           12.00         60.00
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                 5.60            1.40          7.00
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                              16.80           4.20         21.00
Total:                                                        143.86          32.19        176.05
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
Responsible agency: FONDO HONDURENO DE INVERSI6N SOCIAL (FHIS)
Fondo Hondurenlo de Inversi6n Social (FHIS)
Address: Edificio IPM, Colonia Alto de Toncontin (frente a la Iglesia Amor Viviente),Tegucigalpa, Honduras
Contact Person: Lic. Mois6s Starkman Pinel, Minister
Tel: (504) 233-1730               Fax: (504) 234-5255                Email: mstarkman@fhis.hn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
001     2002   >  2003?i j.  -2004 ,    2.i 0
Annual    5.00       15.00      15.00 L    15.00     10.00
Cumulative    5.00      20.00      35.00      50.00      60.00
Project Implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
CS PAn F... R*" .d U_Kz 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project would continue IDA's support for the successful FHIS program, aiming to increase
access among the poor to small-scale social and economic infrastructure, in accordance with local
development priorities; to develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged groups; and to contribute
to the prospects for sustainability of such investments, It would substantially aim to achieve what the
earlier Fourth Social Investment Fund project (Cr. 3118-HO), which was signed in August and became
effective in November 1998, was expected to have achieved, but could not because its resources (and those
of a Supplemental Credit approved in December 1999) were utilized in their entirety to help with
Honduras's reconstruction efforts following the devastating damage caused by Hurricane Mitch in
November 1998.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
*   increased rates of access to and utilization of social and economic infrastructure;
*   increased access for the disadvantaged / vulnerable to appropriate social assistance programs;
e   evidence that investments are targeted to the poor;
-   evidence that investments reflect the priorities of the targeted commnunities and beneficiaries; and
-   evidence that subprojects are in operation and maintained for a reasonable number of years, depending
on subproject type.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R99-182/1           Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/14/99
The proposed project would support the CAS objectives of alleviating and reducing poverty and
contributing to social development. Specifically, it would continue to: (i) help communities devastated by
Hurricane Mitch to rebuild; (ii) expand and more efficiently distribute priority public sector services,
particularly in health, education, water and sanitation, and economic infrastructure, thereby contributing to
improved access to basic social services and productive opportunities; (iii) address priority social needs
through special programs for disadvantaged and under-served groups, including street children, women, the
elderly and handicapped, and ethnic minorities; and (iv) support decentralization by emphasizing and
relying significantly upon the participation of community organizations and local governments, thereby
ensuring that investments represent local priorities and that prospects for sustainability are maximized.
The proposed project also embraces the strategic approach described in the CAS, by fostering:
participation of local communities; inclusiveness, especially with respect to women and indigenous /
Afro-Honduran peoples; and innovation and pilot activities in order to draw lessons, demonstrate
successful approaches, and ultimately contribute to the development of broader reforms.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Poverty in Honduras. Honduras is the third poorest country in the Latin American and Caribbean Region,
with a GNP per capita of US$730 (1998). Over half of Honduran households live in poverty, almost one
third in extreme poverty. The majority of the poor, including of the extreme poor, live in rural areas.
Although Honduras achieved impressive irnprovements in health indicators (including increased life
expectancy and high immunization rates), particularly over the last decade, many social indicators remain
low. Adult illiteracy stands at 27 percent (21 percent for females), infant mortality at 35 per 1,000 live
births, and matemal mortality rate at 221 per 100,000 births. Although three-quarters of the population
-2 -



has access to water and sanitation systems, these percentages are lower in rural areas, and poor functioning
of systems often limits the benefits of increased access.
Impact of Hurricane Mitch. Honduras was devastated by the major damages caused by Hurricane Mitch
in November 1998. The hurricane had a particularly devastating effect on low-income and disadvantaged
communities, and the poverty level is estimated to have increased by an average of 4% in the entire country
as a result of the hurricane. Within Central America, Honduras bore the brunt of Hurricane Mitch, which
was considered to be the worst natural disaster to have affected the country in modem times. No part of
the country escaped; about 4.8 million people were affected (three out of four Hondurans), out of which
about 285,000 had to be placed in temporary shelters, including about 85,000 children under five. The
hurricane damaged or destroyed about 60 percent of the road network, water systems in all major urban
centers, and over 1,500 rural water systems. Losses to public and private infrastructure were estimated at
over $3.5 billion (or over 70 percent of 1997 GDP). Human suffering and damages to the infrastructure
network were further compounded by heavy rains in late 1999.
Government Strategy, and the role of the Honduran Social Investment Fund. The Government's
approach to poverty alleviation focuses on: (i) improving the delivery and quality of basic social services;
(ii) improving efficiency and targeting of safety net programs; (iii) protecting vulnerable and disadvantaged
groups; and (iv) stimulating rural development to raise incomes and employment. An overarching focus of
these efforts is on helping communities devastated by Hurricane Mitch and subsequent rains to rebuild. In
the social sectors, the Government's strategy focuses on expanding and improving the quality of primary
services in health, nutrition, education, water and sanitation and on targeting the poor. Public social
expenditures prior to the hurricane amounted to 9 percent of GDP, and were channeled to programs
designed to expand health care and education facilities and to improve the efficiency and quality of health
and education services. This policy still stands although the major investments needed for hurricane
damage repair have changed the allocation of resources during the past two years.
A key instrunent to support the Government's efforts has been the Honduran Social Investment Fund
(FHIS), first established in 1990 to fund small-scale investments targeted at the poor. Throughout the
1990s, FHIS has become the principal-and frequently the only-Government agency for financing
small-scale civil works in the social sectors. FHIS's comparative advantages include its abilities to operate
efficiently, to target the poor, to mobilize needed extemal financing, to produce allocative efficiencies by
empowering communities to allocate resources cross-sectorally, to enhance sustainability through
participation and training, and to mobilize local resources for investmnents and maintenance. Since its
inception FHIS has funded over 15,000 small-scale social and economic infrastructure subprojects, valued
at about US$300 million, in poor communities throughout Honduras and in accordance with local
demands. A major impact assessment carried out in 1998-99, and which forms part of the Bank's
six-country evaluation of social funds (Social Funds 2000), confmned that FHIS has been doing well in
terms of targeting, responsiveness to community priorities, contributions to overall changes in social
infrastructure, and sustainability of investments; the assessment also indicates that FHIS is having
significant positive impacts at the household level (see Annex 4 for a summary of the results of the impact
evaluation). IDA, in cooperation with other donors (mainly IDB and KfW), has supported FIRS through
four credits, including the ongoing Fourth Social Investment Fund (SI IV) Project (Cr. 3118-HO of
August 27, 1998), for which an emergency supplemental credit was approved in 1999 to assist with
reconstruction in the wake of Hurricane Mitch and subsequent rains.
The objectives of the SIF IV project, which was seen as an integral part of IDA's Country Assistance
Strategy for alleviating poverty and contributing to social development in Honduras, were: to increase
access among the poor to small-scale social and economic infrastructure in accordance with local
-3 -



development priorities; to develop social assistance prograns for disadvantaged groups; and to contribute
to the prospects for sustainability of such investments. The SIF IV project was designed to build upon the
successful experience under the SIF I, II, and III projects by adjusting FHIS's methodologies and by
providing technical assistance to support an increased role for communities and local governments in the
planning, management, and sustainability of local development projects. Indeed, throughout 1998, as part
of the preparation of the SIF IV project, FHIS supported communities in conducting participatory needs
assessments to identify priority social and economic infrastructure projects to be financed by FHIS. This
work culminated in September 1998 with FHIS's promotion of a national "participatory planning" effort,
which for the first time in Honduras brought communities and local leaders together in nearly every
municipality to identify and prioritize projects in the context of Municipal Social Investment Plans (PISMs,
from the Spanish acronym). Although the implementation experience demonstrated room for further
improvement to the methodologies used for the participatory planning exercise, there was widespread
agreement that this effort marked an important step toward increased local participation. These PISMs
were to form the basis for projects that FIRS would fmnance during the 1998-2001 period. Also as part of
preparation for the SIF IV project, FiHS developed guidelines to test an even more decentralized model of
project cycle management in a number of "pilot" municipalities, and initiated activities under special/pilot
programs to attend to the needs of indigenous communities, and to further strengthen
demand-responsiveness and sectoral coordination in the rural water and the social assistance sectors.
When Hurricane Mitch struck in October 1998, FHIS suspended its special and pilot activities, and
diverted the resources it had allocated to finance PISM projects to assist communities in the reconstruction
effort. FHIS's on-the-ground approach and close ties with local actors enabled it to assume the leading role
in responding to comnmunities' urgent needs for assistance in restoring access to basic infrastructure: water
and sanitation systems, roads, schools, and health centers. With resources provided under the SIF IV
project, FHIS was the main agency supporting clean-up, rehabilitation, and reconstruction efforts in rural
areas, in response to the priorities identified by the local communities and municipalities themselves.
Within the first 100 days following the hurricane, FHlS executed over 2,100 subprojects (worth about
US$40 million). IDA resources were particularly vital for these efforts, as Credit 3118-HO was the only
major source of financing available for the first three months of the emergency period. In 1999, FHIS
re-initiated its support for special programs targeted at vulnerable groups and for communities of
indigenous and ethnic minorities, although on a limited basis. By the end of 1999, nearly all of the original
SIF IV resources were fully committed, and so to assist with the ongoing reconstruction effort, IDA
approved a supplemental credit in the amount of US$22.5 million in December 1999. Resources under the
supplemental credit are now virtually fully committed, and the most urgent of the community-level
reconstruction needs now appear to have been met. At the same time, expectations remain high in
communities throughout Honduras that FHIS will return to finance the projects that had been identified
through the 1998 local participatory planning processes. In this context, the Government has requested
IDA assistance to enable it to turn its attention once again to the financing of locally-identified needs for
social and economic infrastructure, and to allow FHIS to further develop and implement its special / pilot
activities.
Needs for Infrastructure. Notwithstanding progress in improving social indicators in recent decades,
further investment is required to improve the coverage and quality of basic social and economic
infrastructure. Results of a 1998 analysis of infrastructure needs in the education, health, water and
sanitation sectors showed that the investment required merely to maintain or modestly expand current
coverage rates in these sectors (i.e., in the face of a population growing at 2-3 percent annually) were about
US$45 million annually, even before the damage caused by Mitch. Continued disparities in term of access,
utilization, and quality of social services and social and economic infrastructure between poor and
less-poor communities, and between rural and urban areas, make it essential to ensure that scarce resources
-4 -



for such investments are distributed equitably, that they respond to the highest priority demands, and that
completed subprojects are operational for as long as possible.
Other issues that inhibit improvements in living conditions and development opportunities among the poor
include:
(a) inadequate attention to social assistance programs. Although FHIS has played a central role in the
Government's social safety net program, including through support for, e.g., health and hygiene training,
nutrition, early childhood education, and attention to special, disadvantaged groups, these activities have
suffered from a lack of direction, as well as weak technical capacity in FHIS to evaluate and oversee them.
(b) issues in the water supply and sanitation sector. Weak institutional arrangements have contributed to
insufficient services in the sector. The Government of Honduras is in the process of implementing reforms
which include the transfer of major urban systems from the National Water and Sanitation Authority
(SANAA) to municipalities, and the Ministry of Health's withdrawal from project execution in order to
focus on a normative role. (This reform is slated for support under the Potable Water and Sanitation
Investment Program being prepared for IDB financing.) FHIS has been a significant investor in the water
supply and sanitation sector, and these reforms, which assign an important role to municipalities and
communities, are likely to result in an increased role for FHIS in helping to address existing gaps in
coverage in rural areas and in poor urban areas. To fulfill this role and to improve the quality and
sustainability of its investments, FHIIS will need to intensify and strengthen its efforts and methodologies in
this sector, including by adopting more effective demand-driven implementation arrangements, working
more closely with communities and other local partners, and increasing the emphasis on cost recovery,
based on successful experiences in Honduras and elsewhere.
(c) marginalization and special needs among indigenous and ethnic minority communities. Approximately
12% of the Honduran population is made up of autochthonous peoples. These groups have been the
principal beneficiaries of FHIS's Nuestras Raices program, one of few Government programs designed
specifically to reach indigenous communities. Nonetheless, poverty among indigenous communities
remains severe. Except for the Lencas, all of the eight groups (Chorti, Tawahka, Pech, Garifuna, Miskito,
Nahua, Tolupa.n and Creoles) live in municipalities marked by FHIS's poverty map as extreme poor. The
indicators of health are the worst in the country, mostly due to their remote location. Although efforts are
being made by the Ministry of Education to improve access of indigenous to the conmnunity-based basic
education program, PROHECO, schooling continues to be lower for indigenous than for non-indigenous
groups. A needs assessment carried out in August 2000 identified lack of access to markets, and to
financial resources to initiate productive activities, as a significant barrier to development among
indigenous communities. Also, notwithstanding the progress FHIS has made in requiring local
participatory planning in the identification and prioritization of social investments, many autochthonous
conununity members feel marginalized from the Social Municipal Planning process in municipalities with
large non-indigenous populations.
Decentralization and Local Development. In the last decade Honduras has taken important steps in terms
of strengthening the role that local governments and communities play in improving local living conditions.
These steps include promoting and establishing: (i) a legal and institutional framework favorable to
decentralization; (ii) a constitutional mandate to transfer 5% of the national budget to municipalities; and
(iii) a network of public and private, local and international actors supporting local institutional
strengthening efforts. There is a recognition of the potential for local governments to play a more effective
role in opening spaces at the local level for participation and inclusion, to manage the implementation of
local investments, and to help ensure that such investments are sustained. At the same time, institutional,
- 5 -



managerial, and economic constraints hamper the potential contributions that local actors are able to make
to reduce poverty. Notwithstanding participatory experiences such as the one leading to the 1998 PISMs,
inefficient and often non-transparent local planning practices are common. Due to budgetary constraints,
central government transfers to municipalities have averaged only 1.9% instead of 5%. The need for a
concerted effort to strengthen the role of local governments has proved greater than the capacities of the
chief Government agency charged with the task (Direcci6n General de Asesoria y Asistencia Tecnica a los
Municipios-DGAATM).
Despite these weaknesses and constraints, however, there is consensus in Honduras that a strategy to
combat poverty must include an effort to strengthen the roles of local actors, with an ongoing debate about
exactly how much power and responsibilities local actors should and will be able to command. In this
context, the GOH has expressed a willingness to experiment with a gradual increase in the responsibilities
of local actors, and has assigned FHIS, which is recognized as a key link with local governments and
communities, with developing such an experiment.
FHIS in the Context of the Poverty Reduction Strategy. The Government submitted an Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) to the Bank in March 2000; this was discussed by the Executive
Directors in July. The staff appraisal contained in the Joint Staff Assessment indicated that the document
met the conditions for an Interim PRSP under existing guidelines. The authorities are now embarked on a
process of consultation with Civil Society that in addition to the contacts in the capital, Tegucigalpa,
include about 12 regional meetings. The draft PRSP is based both on creating the environment for fast and
sustained economic growth, and on providing better access to production factors, including human capital,
health, markets, and information, for the poor population. In addition to those measures aimed at poverty
reduction, the draft PRSP also includes short-run measures aimed at mitigating the effects of poverty for
the most vulnerable groups. FHIS is considered a crucial actor in the context of addressing and meeting
medium and long run targets of the Government's strategy. In particular, FHIS is expected to play a key
role in expanding the provision of basic social services and targeting resources to poor and excluded
groups, and in promoting the processes of decentralization and deconcentration with community
participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In essence, this project would be a continuation of IDA's successful programs of support to FHIS under
previous Credits, and, more specifically, would aim to achieve what the SIF IV project (Cr. 3118-HO) had
aimed to achieve before its resources were fully used for emergency works. The project builds on the
successful experience of nearly ten years worth of support through FHIS, to provide financing for
small-scale social and economic infrastructure and social assistance subprojects identified by poor
communities and/or their representatives. At the same time, the project employs FHIS's capacities for
flexibility and innovation to support several special and pilot programs designed to provide early impact for
poor communities and at the same time to provide lessons regarding the effectiveness of new approaches
and policies. It would continue to place increased emphasis on improving the efficiency and equity of
resource allocation, subproject sustainability, and local government/governance.
The project would continue to assist the Government to improve access to and quality of social and
economic infrastructure and social assistance programs for the disadvantaged by financing
improvements/expansion of small-scale basic infrastructure, and investment inputs for social assistance
programs. FHIS' abilities (i) to operate efficiently (operating costs were about 11 percent during 1998, the
last full year of normal--i.e., pre-Mitch-operations) and on a massive scale and (ii) to mobilize and channel
the required external funds required for the social sector investments, have led line ministries to use FHIS
- 6 -



as an executing arm for their investment expenditures, and would make FHIS an appropriate instrument for
the proposed project.
FHIS's ability to decentralize decision-making and foster community participation enhances the prospects
for efficient and equitable resource allocation. This would be furthered under the Pilot Program for
Local Institutional Strengthening component of the proposed project. Through allocation of more money to
poorer municipalities and proactive promotion efforts in poorer communities, FHIS has and will continue
to promote equity in public spending. The proposed project would further increase local participation in
planning and other stages of the subproject cycle, thereby increasing the likelihood that subprojects
financed truly reflect local priorities; this would in turn enhance allocation efficiency and utilization of
social sector investments. Furthermore, participation in planning and implementation could lead to more
creative utilization/mobilization of potential resources from both local governments and communities.
A major emphasis of the operation is to explore ways of further improving the sustainability of
subprojects. Beyond consolidating FHIS'past efforts to improve the quality of finished subprojects, to
provide appropriate training to user groups, and to require adequate cornmitments and contributions from
beneficiaries and other stakeholders, the project would aim to lay the groundwork for a shift in emphasis
from central government to local agents as the locus of subproject maintenance. The project would not
eliminate the mechanisms of coordination with line ministries that were established under previous
operations, and which help to ensure that the line ministries are committed to staffing and stocking
completed social infrastructure; in fact, FHIS aims to improve coordination, particularly in the design and
supervision of subprojects, where previous assessments have found room for improvement. However, the
role of local agents appears to be critical, since the sector ministries that are nominally responsible for
operations and maintenance of social infrastructure have little or no budgets available for routine and
preventive maintenance expenditures, let alone for rehabilitation. In particular, the project would
emphasize the role of local governments; for although commnunities are often capable of carrying out minor
maintenance activities (such as cleaning or painting), they often lack financial resources and/or technical
expertise for larger repairs. Moreover, extemal supervision is necessary to ensure appropriate maintenance
by communities. According to a study conducted as part of the Institutional Strengthening component of
the SIF III project and revisited during preparation of the proposed project, in many cases, municipalities
have already been finding ways to pay for routine maintenance expenditures and even operating costs, such
as staff salaries, using resource transfers and other local revenues. The proposed project would further
explore the potential for capitalizing on municipal involvement in maintenance, and would develop and test
practical mechanisms for encouraging and enabling municipalities to increase their institutional, technical,
and financial capacities to ensure better sustainability of FHIS-financed investments. In the water and
sanitation sector, where issues of subproject sustainability have been tenacious, the project would focus
particular attention on improving ex-ante assessments of technical, financial, and social factors affecting
sustainability.
To improve attention to the social assistance sector, to provide improved guidance regarding the
evaluation and oversight of FHIS' social assistance subprojects, to increase the transparency and efficiency
with which priority programs are identified, and to foster the development of innovative approaches and
programs for addressing the unique needs of target groups, the project would establish a pilot Social
Assistance Innovations Fund (Spanish acronym, FIDAS). This Fund would offer financing, on a
competitive basis, to innovative proposals from NGOs, community groups, private agencies, etc., to
address the priority needs of vulnerable groups--as identified by intended beneficiaries and NGOs
themselves in consultations held during project preparation. The Fund is also expected to contribute to
sectoral coordination through the creation of the FIDAS Steering Committee to help FHIS oversee the fund,
and advise on priorities for financing, operational policies, and technical aspects of social assistance. This
-7 -



Steering Committee, which was formed and became active during project preparation, is comprised of
representatives of FHIS, the Honduran Institute for Child and Family Welfare (IHNFA) and umbrella
NGOs involved in Social Assistance. Technical assistance and training is also foreseen to improve the
capacities of NGOs and other actors in the sector to provide more effective responses to disadvantaged
groups' needs.
The project would also aim to improve access to, and quality and sustainability of water and sanitation
services, particularly in rural and dispersed areas. To assure quality of all investments in water supply and
sanitation, the project will use a strengthened process for ex-ante evaluation of all sub-projects, with
differentiated criteria for rural and urban zones and for different types of sub-projects. This instrument
will permit filtering of subproject designs that are of acceptable quality (in term of potential sustainability,
subsidy levels, costs, and technical solutions). The project will also use an instrument for ex-post
evaluation of all subprojects to identify required corrective actions and to hold contracting parties
accountable. In dispersed zones, the project will support a pilot program that will test several options of
institutional arrangements and a demand-driven approach. These will be tested in association with the
sector coordination body (Collaborative Group for Water and Sanitation, which includes FHIS, Ministry of
Health, SANAA, and other agencies active in the sector) with the aim of preparing a strategy to roll out the
approach in close coordination with major sector actors.
To contribute to improved living conditions and development among autochthonous peoples, the
project would further develop the Nuestras Raices (Our Roots) progran. This fourth phase of the program
would expand FHIS's special window of financing for indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities to
provide funding for a wider variety of small community works subprojects identified by the communities
themselves, and would provide technical assistance to the community members to help them organize and
pool resources (including those earned by working on the community projects) more effectively to support
longer-term investment and development activities. The program would also provide technical assistance to
strengthen the institutional and financial capacities of the communities and the federations that represent
them to organize, administer, manage, and monitor the development of micro-projects which contribute to
improved living conditions and increased abilities to preserve cultural values and heritage. The program
will also seek to support development of autochthonous peoples in coordination with local and national
governments and international organizations.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project's basic structure is essentially the same as that of the SIF IV project, resources of which were
diverted to finance community-level reconstruction following Hurricane Mitch. The operations guidelines
and instruments for the four special / pilot programs have been analyzed and developed in more detail since
the SIF IV project, and these four programs have been regrouped into a single component (with four
subcomponents) to enable more effective monitoring of these activities. Specific monitoring and evaluation
activities are foreseen within each component and subcomponent in order to focus on drawing lessons from
experience. Some activities have also been re-costed.
The project components are as follows:
I .    Subproject Financing. This component would constitute the core of the program and would
continue IDA's provision of financing for a wide range of small-scale social and economic infrastructure
- 8 -



subprojects, as well as training to enhance sustainability. Subproject proposals would be identified by
beneficiaries, prioritized through local participatory planning processes, and processed according to
technical, financial, economic, social, and environmental criteria set out in the Operations Manual,
complementary guidelines, and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). For the first two years of the
program, it is expected that the 1998 PISMs would be the basis for subprojects to be financed. (Most
municipalities have confirmed that those plans remain valid, although a number have asked for, and have
received--or would under the project--technical assistance (TA) to update their plans.)
2.    Pilot and Special Programs.
(a)    Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening. This component would constitute a set of
structured experiments designed to develop, test, and draw lessons regarding innovative approaches and
methodologies for encouraging and enabling communities and local governments to work together more
effectively, and in better coordination with stakeholders at the local, regional, and national levels. The
component would cover three interrelated aspects: (i) participatory local planning; (ii) preventive
maintenance; and (iii) transfer of some functions and responsibilities for subproject processing from FHIS
to municipalities and communities. The subcomponent would finance training, technical assistance, and
investment subprojects in a small group of "Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot Municipalities" (see
Annex 13).
(b)    Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural Water & Sanitation Services. This component would provide
TA, training, and supplemental subproject financing to develop and test innovative methodologies and
creative partnerships aimed at improving attention to rural communities' needs for water systems and the
sustainability of such investments, and at drawing lessons for improved attention to, and sectoral
coordination in, the water sector. The subcomponent's design would emphasize demand-responsiveness,
cost-recovery, and community control in the subproject process, and would rely significantly on the
involvement of local governments, NGOs, and private service providers (see Annex 12).
(c)    Social Assistance Innovations Fund. This subcomponent would foster the development of
innovative approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups, by providing financing for proposals
(submitted by NGOs, community organizations, the private sector, etc.) on the basis of a competition
overseen by a Steering Committee of key stakeholders. The subcomponent would also include resources
for training and TA to improve the capacities of actors in the sector.
(d)    Nuestras Raices (Our Roots). Nuestras Raices seeks to improve the living conditions and promote
social capital in indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities by financing small-scale subprojects
(identified by the communities and selected according to eligibility criteria established by FHIS and the
indigenous peoples' federations) using paid labor of community members. After completion of the
subproject, community members may invest the wages earned in a follow-up subproject, which is typically
a small-scale infrastructure project or the establishment of a small community bank. Such conununity
banks finance agricultural and commercial income-generating activities initiated and identified by the
participating members of the community banks themselves. Institutional strengthening of ethnic
federations, capacity building of communities, coordinators, FHIS, and ethnic liaisons are substantial
elements of the program (see Annex 11).
3.    Project Management. This would include FHIS operating costs, institutional strengthening,
equipment and vehicles, and extemal auditing.
-9-



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ dsb{,
1. Subproject Financing              Social Funds &     112.92        64.1      31.11       51.8
Social Assistance
2a. Pilot Program for Local          Institutional       21.03        11.9       6.89       11.5
Institutional Strengthening          Development
2b. Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural  Rural Water         3.40        1.9       3.25        5.4
Water & Sanitation Services          Supply &
Sanitation
2c. Social Assistance Innovations    Social Funds &        6.00        3.4       6.00       10.0
Fund                                 Social Assistance
2d. Nuestras Raices ("Our Roots")    Social Funds &       12.71        7.2      12.10       20.2
Social Assistance
3. Project Management                Social Funds &       19.98       11.3       0.65        1.1
Social Assistance
Total Project Costs                     176.04      100.0      60.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                      176.04      100.0      60.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The existing policy and institutional framework does not inhibit project viability and sustainability.
Confirmation was received from the Government regarding the congruence of the Project's basic objectives
and strategy with national plans for poverty alleviation, social sector and local/municipal development.
While the project does not purport to lead directly to any specific policy or institutional reforms, it does airn
to generate lessons, particularly under the Pilot and Special Programs component, which could serve to
inform future policy, legal, and institutional reforms. For example, under the Pilot Program for Local
Institutional Strengthening, it is possible that the project will identify possible needs for reforrns to enhance
the framework of coordination, support and follow-up among actors involved in local development, and to
help local governments assume greater administrative, technical and financial responsibility for local
investments on a sustained basis. The Social Assistance Innovations Fund and the Pilot Program to
Strengthen Rural Water Systems are also expected to contribute to informing / refining policies and
regulations in respective sectors, laying the groundwork for future refonns. Additionally, under these latter
components, steering committees have been established to provide additional technical guidance for each
subprogram, to advise on the revision/improvement/development of operational procedures for management
of the funds, and to create a locus for possible improvements in stakeholder coordination in these sectors.
- 10 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. The project would contribute to efficiency, transparency, and equity in social expenditures and
public investment, through allocation and subproject eligibility criteria that favor the poor, decentralization
of decision making, promotion of participatory planning, and coordination between local and central level
actors. Financing of priority social and economic infrastructure would contribute to improvements in (i)
access to and quality of social services (water supply, sanitation, health care, education); and (ii) improved
economic development opportunities for beneficiaries. The Social Assistance Innovations Fund would
provide special support for disadvantaged groups, while its steering committee and competitive approach
would improve the ability of FElS to target the highest priority programs and at the same time enhance
coordination with other sectoral agencies and NGOs. The Rural Water and Sanitation pilot would improve
prospects for addressing needs for water and sanitation services among rural communities, contribute to
sustainability of such investments, and enhance coordination in the sector. Efforts to ensure that
investments are priorities of local communities would help guarantee that there is a sense of local
ownership of investments. This, combined with efforts to improve ex-ante appraisal of economic, financial,
technical, and social viability, to train local agents and end-users in operations and maintenance, to
coordinate with sectoral agencies, and to provide incentives and (in some cases) help secure supplemental
financing for maintenance, would enhance the prospects of sustainability of subprojects, which means that
benefit streams would be longer-lasting. Increased participation in planning and implementation, sought
under the Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening, could lead to leveraging of FHIS funds to
generate more creative utilization/mobilization of potential resources from local governments, communities,
and others. Strengthening of local government capacities to plan, contract/manage, and sustain
development investments, and to engage a wide array of stakeholders in participatory processes could
improve the foundation for more democratic and sustainable local development in the future.
Target Population. The project's strategy is to enable local agents to make decisions regarding which
communities should receive attention. Within this context, targeting of the poorest communities and
disadvantaged groups (urban and rural, and including indigenous communities) would be fostered through:
(i) ex-ante resource allocation criteria that are based on a recently revised and agreed formula,
incorporating population and poverty indicators that assign greater amounts of funding per capita to the
poorest municipalities (this map would be updated following the results of the 2001 census); (ii)
self-targeting by type of project; (iii) promotion and assistance to strengthen participatory local planning
and to provide local agents with the best available information on apparent local needs for small-scale
social and economic infrastructure needs; and (iv) establishment of a Social Assistance steering committee,
and coordination with the Collaborative Group for Water and Sanitation to provide guidance to help ensure
that the neediest groups and communities are reached.
- 11 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Implementation and Coordinaton. FHIS would be responsible for overall project
implementation and coordination. In general, subprojects would be identified and sponsored by
communities, NGOs, and/or local government representatives, executed by qualified private contractors or
NGOs, and supervised by FHIS. Under the Local Institutional Strengthening and Rural Water and
Sanitation Pilots, certain municipalities, communities, and/or other local agents would assume increased
responsibilities for all or parts of the subproject cycle, with supervision for such involvement provided by
FHIS in coordination with sector agencies, NGOs, and others. Detailed criteria and procedures set out in
FHIS's Operational Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP, would govern all aspects of project
management, including ex-ante allocation of funds, criteria for access to funds, evaluation and processing
of subprojects proposals, contracting, execution, and supervision of subprojects, and implementation of the
pilot programs. Revisions to the guidelines that complement the Operations Manual and a draft PIP were
reviewed during project preparation and found generally acceptable; a final revision of these documents
would be provided as a condition of effectiveness. The final revisions would incorporate the results of
technical assistance being carried out in the context of project preparation, and would include the detailed
implementation plans for Pilot and Special programs; improved evaluation criteria (including ex-ante
appraisal and ex-post evaluation instruments) for water and sanitation subprojects; improvements in
procurement policies and procedures; and aspects pertaining to environmental management. The
Operations Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP could be modified as necessary during project
preparation and implementation, subject to agreement with IDA. Also, to ensure that its activities are
consistent with the policies and development strategies of line agencies and other relevant stakeholders,
FIHS has established and would update framework agreements with the Ministries of Education; Health;
Culture, Arts and Sports; the Environment (SERNA); the Honduran Institute for Child and Family Welfare
(IHNFA); and the Association of Honduran Municipalities (AMHON). Implementation and
inter-institutional coordination under past IDA credits have both been satisfactory, although the project
would aim to further improve coordination in design and supervision of subprojects, which has been
identified as an issue in past evaluations.
Project Oversight. FHIS' enabling law pernits it to operate relatively free from political interference, and
exempts the institution from normal govermnent budgeting, procurement, and disbursement regulations.
Oversight is provided by a Board of Directors, chaired by the President of the Republic and including top
government and congressional officials and representatives of the private sector, cooperatives, and NGOs.
The Executive Director has the rank of Minister and is a member of the Cabinet.
Project financial management and auditing. A project financial management (FM) assessment was
carried out by IDA's Regional Financial Management Unit (LCOAA). The FM system--which is currently
in place for the FHIS IV Project--meets IDA FM requirements as explained in Annex 6.
Before credit effectiveness, an independent audit firm acceptable to IDA is expected to be engaged to carry
out the covenanted yearly audit, in accordance with terms of reference approved by IDA. The external
auditors will perform interim visits on a quarterly basis. As in the past, the quarterly and annual auditor's
opinion would include the results of an "operations audit", including a financial review of subprojects and a
physical inspection of a sample of subprojects. FHIS would also prepare annual progress reports each
April, and annual planning reports each October. FHIS has adapted its financial management systems in
line with IDA's Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), and conversion to LACI-style
disbursements was introduced in early 1999.
Monitoring and Evaluation. In recent years, great strides have been made in improving monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) in social funds in general, and in FHIS in particular. Significant attention to M&E
activities is foreseen under the proposed project:
- 12 -



* Operational Performance and Program Outputs. As part of the institutional strengthening program
financed under the SIF Im project, FHIS developed a sophisticated management information system
(MIS) with about 50 key performance indicators that allow each administrative unit, and managers and
most staff within units, to set productivity targets and monitor compliance. Principal technical staff
meet regularly to discuss these indicators and to recommend actions in response to any problems
identified. As part of project preparation, FHIS has been fine-tuning this system, as well as
incorporating additional quality-oriented indicators. Improvements would be reviewed as part of the
revised Operations Manual Guidelines and PIP to be submitted prior to effectiveness.
*   Subprojects. Under the program, impact evaluation practices will be updated and mainstreamed to
track FIlS's success in achieving the desired outcomes and impacts outlined in the logical framework.
The first extemal impact evaluation of FHIS (and one of the first for a Bank-financed social fund) was
conducted in 1998-99 to assess targeting, community participation, subproject quality, sustainability,
household impacts, and impact on national coverage rates of basic social services (see Annex 4 for a
summary of key results). The evaluation methodology compared results from households and projects
benefiting from FHIS projects to a control group of pipeline projects that had yet to receive FHIS
funding. The use of pipeline projects as a control group allows for both "with and without"
comparisons using treatment and control groups as well as "before and after" comparisons using
baseline and follow-up data. The evaluation also included the application of a beneficiary assessment
to a subsample of FHIS-financed subprojects, providing depth to the impact analysis results by lending
voice to community-based focus groups and key informants. Financing is provided under the project to
mainstream these methodologies, with a full evaluation to be conducted by the end of the project
implementation period. (The external evaluation will continue to harmonize its data collection efforts
with the existing system of household surveys using the established poverty measures in Honduras in
order to evaluate the project's success in poverty targeting.) In addition, FHIS's updating of the MIS
(mentioned in the previous paragraph) will include adjustments to ensure the collection of information
as part of the subproject appraisal process, which will be used as (i) baseline data serving as an input
to the external impact evaluation; and (ii) data for enhancing the economic analysis of subprojects.
*  Environmental Aspects. External random monitoring of FHIS's environmental screening mechanisms
would be included as part of M&E activities, as would periodic beneficiary assessments.
*  Pilot and Special Programs. The drawing of lessons to inform future practices and policies is a key
goal under all of the special / pilot programs. As such, each of those components includes provisions
for conducting external analyses of quantitative and qualitative aspects of the respective programs, at
mid-term and at program completion; and distinct methodologies have been or are being developed to
reflect the specific objectives and results foreseen under each component.
FHIS's planning unit would be responsible for overseeing M&E activities. The project would also be
subject to regular supervision by IDA staff, including participation in annual project implementation
reviews.
Co-financing. As has been the case under the earlier FHIS projects, FHIS is expected to mobilize
significant amounts of external co-financing during the project implementation period. The project was
developed in close collaboration with KFW and IDB, and these agencies also intend to support the
proposed program. Nonetheless, since all external financing expected under the project would be parallel
rather than joint, no adverse effects on implementation would result if any external co-financing amounts
were to be different from the expected amounts.
- 13 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The core design of the proposed project is based on the well-tried and successful models of IDA's earlier
programs of support for FHIS under the four projects (Cr. 2212-HO, Cr. 2401-HO, Cr. 2766-HO, and Cr.
3118-HO). As in the past, the Credit Agreement and other project documentation would allow for
flexibility so that lessons yet to be leamed could be applied to make improvements in FHIS operations
during implementation.
Since its establishment, FHIS has remained unparalleled in Honduras as an efficient, large-scale, delivery
mechanism for small-scale social and economic investment and social service projects. This was also
confirmed by FHIS's rapid and substantial response after the serious damage caused by Hurricane Mitch.
Of course, alternatively, the sector investments could be channeled through line ministries, but part of the
public sector modernization concept is that line ministries should concentrate their efforts on their core
tasks of developing policies, norns, and regulations, with other public and private institutions delivering
services. In this context, Government has already established FHIS as the principal, and in some cases the
only, government instrument for financing small-scale projects in the social sectors, and it is unlikely that
line ministries could quickly or easily reabsorb the functions currently carried out by FHIS. The
Government recently reconfirmed FHIS's role as a key actor in the context of the Interim PRSP.
Furthermore, overall costs would likely be higher under the stand-alone projects that would be required by
individual ministries to carry out sectoral investment programs, since FHIS's low operating costs are in
large part a consequence of specialization and economies of scale. FHIS's multi-sectoral program also
generates allocative efficiencies, since it empowers communities to allocate scarce resources across sectors,
thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities.
More importantly, the proposed project fits in with, and takes concrete steps toward, a vision that places
local actors, rather than central ones, at the center of the development process. It is at the local level that
allocative decisions get made, so the project aims to strengthen local participatory planning processes, to
ensure that development investments represent the collective priorities of all local stakeholders (not just
those with the most resources). It is at the local level that subproject maintenance becomes a concem (with
municipalities already assuming responsibilities that used to be in the purview of line ministries), and so the
project aims, on a pilot basis, to strengthen local institutional, technical, and financial management
capacities to ensure better sustainability of FHIS-financed investments. And it is at the local level that
FHIS and the project team see the future of small-scale investment project management, so the project aims
to provide some lessons regarding strengthening local capacities to manage the project cycle. In short,
FHIS has taken over from the line ministries as the entity to finance small-scale local projects in the social
sectors, and this project is designed to help the country look toward the next focal point of institutional
strengthening and development partnership: local governance institutions--municipalities and community
organizations.
In sum, since small-scale social investment needs are still great in Honduras, and since there is no other
institution today that appears better suited than FHIS, in theory or in practice, to support such investments,
the project would continue to support FHIS's role in this area. But with a longer-term strategy for
development that emphasizes a multiplicity of actors and an increased role for local governance institutions,
the project would also take advantage of FHIS's capacity to be flexible and to incubate innovations, and
would place great emphasis on piloting the strengthening of institutions and practices to help reduce
poverty and improve living conditions among the poor and disadvantaged.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supwvision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
,_ .1         .               .{(Bank-finmncod proJects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progras (IP)   Objective (DO)
Need to reform public sector to  Public Sector Modernization       S            S
improve public management and to    SAC (Cr. 28160-3, US$101.50
enhance efficiency, transparency and   million).
accountability. Could involve aspects
related to role of FHIS.
Poor municipal capacity to assess  Environmental Development       S            S
environmental issues; and to prepare   Project (Cr. 2693-HO);
and implement programs in response to US$10.8 million)
such issues.
Poor quality of basic education and    Basic Education Project    S             S
weak institutional capacity in Ministry (Cr. 2694-HO, US$30 million)
of Education.
Poor access, efficiency and quality of  Nutrition and Health Project  S         S
primary health care              (Cr. 2452-HO, US$25 million;
and Supplemental Cr.
24521-HO, US$10.4 million)
Lack of access to priority social and   Social Investment Fund IV  S            S
economic infrastructure and social    (Cr. 3118-HO, US$45 million;
assistance programs.             and Supplemental Cr.
31181-HO; US$22.5 million)
Limited governmental capacity to  Biodiversity in Priority Areas  S             S
manage protected areas, and to define  Project (GEF TF 28367,
land tenure for indigenous groups.  US$7.0 million)
Limited institutional capacity to  Rural Land Management           S            S
manage forest resources; limited access Project (Cr. 2940-HO,
of poor upland famers to improved  US$34.0 million)
technology; and an outdated system of
titling land and confirming land claims.
Need to ensure sustainable development Interactive Environmental  HS            HS
and support ethnic diversity through   Learning and Science
scientific, environmental, and cultural  Promotion Project (Cr.
education.                       3250-HO, US$8.3 million)
Other development agencies
Lack of access to priority social and   IDB - Program FHIS III;
economic infrastructure and social  Family Assistance Program
assistance programs.             (PRAF);
KfW - Program FHIS IV
Need for improved water and sanitation Potable Water & Sanitation
services.                         Investment Project
- 15-



Need for improved access to basic   Basic Services in the Health
health services.                    Sector
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design reflects lessons learned from international experience with social funds (SFs), as well as
from IDA's experience with FHIS under Cr. 2212-HO, 2401-HO, 2766-HO, and 3118-HO (Supervision
reports, Performance Audit Report for Credits 2212-HO and 2401-HO, and Implementation Completion
Reports for Credits 2401-HO and 2766-HO), as well as the 1998 FHIS Impact Assessment study. Among
the most pertinent of these lessons are the following:
Limited Objectives and Consistency with National Development Strategies. FHIS, like all SFs, needs to
maintain clear and limited objectives. Efficiency of operational policies and procedures, as well as overall
program effectiveness, depend upon clear understanding of FHIS's role in an overall development strategy
framework. When objectives are unclear, or when SFs become responsible for numerous (and sometimes
conflicting) development goals, efficiency and effectiveness can become compromised. It is particularly
important for governments to clarify SFs' roles in the context of national policies for social development,
poverty alleviation, and local/municipal development. Furthermore, it is important to remember that SFs
are designed to finance and oversee implementation of subprojects and not to make policies; while SIF
managers and staff may bring important perspectives to inform policy discussions on the above-mentioned
topics, participation and coordination of all actors relevant to such discussions including from the public,
private, and NGO sectors) should be assured. Thus the project design recognizes that "Subproject
Financing" will remain the core activity of the project.
Potentialsfor Innovation and Laying Groundworkfor Future Reform. Notwithstanding the fact that
the project focuses on subproject financing as FHIS's "core business", it also responds to the recognition
that SFs can serve effectively as incubators for innovation, and can demonstrate through practice the
potentials for and directions of strategic reform in key sectors affecting the poor. In this respect, the
project's Pilot and Special Programs component would focus attention on drawing lessons, even as they
realize imnmediate impacts, in four areas viewed as critical to address poverty in Honduras over the longer
tenn.
Key Institutional Characteristics. The project would place due emphasis on the institutional
characteristics that are considered most critical for the success of SFs: (i) operational efficiency; (ii)
transparency and accountability, which are bolstered by clear resource allocation criteria and operational
guidelines, reliable independent audits and evaluations, an effective management information system, and
vigilant supervision by external financing agencies; (iii) clear and simple procurement and disbursement
procedures (this applies to both FHIS's and IDA's procedures); (iv) competitive salaries and freedom from
nonral government personnel restrictions, in order to permit recruitment/retention of a highly qualified
staff; (v) proper targeting mechanisms; (vi) integration of the environmental viewpoint into operations; and
(vii) close attention to monitoring and evaluation activities, including beneficiary assessments.
- 16 -



Sustainability. Subproject sustainability requires a participatory process that seeks open consultation with
communities on their needs and prionties and an involvement of communities throughout the project cycle
to secure their comnitment to subproject operation and maintenance. FHIS resources also need to be
allocated for training. However, comimunity support alone cannot assure subproject sustainability. To be
fully successful, subproject sustainability requires the coordinated support of both the central and local
governments, NGOs, and FHIS, with clearly defined roles and responsibilities for each.
Role of Local Government Local (municipal) govermnents can play an important role in ensuring
participatory pnority-setting, and in contributing financial resources for subprojects. This can in turn lead
to more efficient and equitable distnbution of resources within municipalities, and can imnprove prospects
for subproject sustainability. FHIS has demonstrated that it is possible to strengthen local govermnents'
capacities to carry out these functions, which was further confirmed during and following the hurricane
emergency. However, greater coordination with other actors involved in local/municipal development will
be required in order to achieve more widespread and sustained strengthening of municipal capacities.
Evolving Nature of SFs. The notion that SFs are temporary needs to be reevaluated in general, and in
Honduras in particular. FHIS's creation ten years ago as a temporary agency was based on assumptions
that the economic adjustment program was of a limited duration, and that the line ministries would be
strengthened to prepare and implement programs and projects targeted to the poor, so that there would be
no long term need for FHIS. However, chronic poverty continues to be pervasive, and constraints on
government expenditures and economic activity that could adversely affect the poor are likely to persist for
some time. Moreover, FHIS's role in efficiently financing small social infrastructure on a massive scale
throughout poor areas of the country remains relevant; this was clearly proven after Hurricane Mitch. It is
not clear that this function would be better executed by traditional line ministries, whose capacities in this
area are still limited. FIHlS has also shown that it can play an important role as a catalyst to strengthen
local governments and their abilities to foment participatory processes for identifying, implementing, and
sustaining priority investments. Also, FHIS has piloted a number of new initiatives that later achieve
sustainability on their own (e.g., Honduras's Family Assistance Program, PRAF). Thus, the comparative
advantages of FHIS are likely to remain relevant for quite some time.
Preparednessfor Contingency Responsibilities during Disasters. The effective roles played by several
regional SFs following Hurricane Mitch underscored the fact that SFs can be effective instruments to help
govermments respond to natural disasters. To be better prepared for such situations in the future, FHIS has
drafted and is currently finalizing a "Contingency Manual" to describe temporary procedures that could be
employed in the case of national states of emergency. Additionally, FHIS and the Disaster Management
project teams (in Honduras and in IDA) have established mechanisms of coordination with the aim of
improving disaster preparedness at the community / municipal level.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*   Solid experience and regular govemment support (including timely counterpart contributions) under the
earlier FHIS projects.
*   FHS is actively involved, mcluding proposing a number of the innovations (e.g., Local Institutional
Strengthening, Social Assistance Steering Committee) planned under the project.
*   Support for FHIS among stakeholders (local and central government agencies, NGOs, local
governments, and final beneficiaries) has been high, as demonstrated by periodic consultations and
various program evaluations camed out in the past and during preparation.
*   The Govermment has shown support for FHIS, even more so after FHIS's excellent work following the
hurricane.
- 17-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
* Ability to mobilize international resources and to encourage donor coordination.
*   Mobilization of high-quality technical assistance for institutional improvement under the project.
*   Bank's broader program of assistance (i.e., beyond FHIS) will provide a context to support
complementary reforms needed to sustain innovations under the proposed project.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Econoniic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
At the macro level, FHIS is responsible for a significant net increase in resources for social
investments, coming largely from donor sources. There is little evidence of crowding out investments that
would otherwise have been made by the line ministries. Due to the effective targeting performance of
FHIS, there is also no evidence that FHIS investments have caused community members to switch from
private to public services.
As an apex financial institution, FHIS seeks to maximize the social rate of return of its portfolio through
mechanisms and policies to ensure that the poor are reached, that criteria will be applied to each
sub-project to ensure that the most cost-effective investments are made, and that administrative costs are
within reason. Municipal allocations based on poverty maps help guide resources toward the poorer
municipalities. Ex-post evaluations show the effectiveness of FHIS's targeting strategy, with 22 percent of
FHIS beneficiaries in, and 30 percent of the value of FHIS investments reaching, the lowest income decile
of households. In accordance with its Operational Manual and complementary guidelines and subject to
minimum requirements agreed with the relevant sector agencies, FHIS uses detailed technical criteria,
standard designs, and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to determine
subproject economic viability. This includes application of a comprehensive list of unit costs by type of
subproject and by region, which is updated at least twice a year. FHlS's design also fosters allocative
efficiencies: through the promotion of participatory local decision-making, communities allocate scarce
resources across sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local
priorities. During FHIS V, refinements will be made to the methodologies for economic analysis of water
and sanitation projects to ensure that the most cost effective and sustainable investments are selected, as
well as minor adjustments in cost per beneficiary thresholds and better collection of baseline data to further
strengthen ex-ante economic appraisal. At an average of about 10 percent between 1998 and 2000, FHIS
administrative costs are consistent with the levels observed in other social funds, which usually range from
5 to 20 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The project's fiscal implications, both during and after implementation, are expected to be manageable.
Fiscal implications during project implementation would include project counterpart funding requirements
(including FHIS operating costs) established by IDA and other cofinanciers. These are estimated at about
$28 million over the project period, or $7 million per year, representing about 0.15% of GNP (1998). It is
-18 -



worth mentioning that Government counterpart funding under the SIF III and IV projects has been adequate
and timely. Contributions by beneficiaries, local governments, and NGOs, prior to FHIS subproject
financing, while not monetized, are estimated to have average values of 10-20% of investment costs, and, in
the case of water and sanitation subprojects, as high as 30%.
Operation and maintenance of completed subprojects is estimated to average about 2% of investment costs,
which is expected to be borne largely by local governments and communities (in accordance with
subproject maintenance plans submitted as a precondition for FHIS financing). For those subprojects that
entail an increase in Government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e. incremental staff), prior endorsement
of the subproject by relevant line ministries would continue to be required. Again, experience under the
previous FHIS projects has shown that inter-institutional coordination has been adequate and that such
financial implications are manageable. Under the Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot, the project
contemplates central-government financed subsidies for the poorest municipalities to supplement their own
expenditures on maintenance. In the case of water supply and sanitation subprojects, the
users/beneficiaries would be fully responsible for operation and maintenance of the completed systems, and
user committees would charge user fees. As part of the preparation of the Pilot Rural Water and Sanitation
component, FHIS, with IDA assistance, is currently developing criteria for assessing financial implications
and arrangements for meeting them at the local level, as part of subproject evaluation for all water and
sanitation subprojects (i.e., including in urban, rural concentrated, and dispersed areas). These criteria
would be reviewed in the context of the revised PIP and the guidelines complementing the Operations
Manual, to be submitted prior to effectiveness.
3. Technical:
Technical criteria exist for each subproject type, based on existing norms from the respective public
agencies to ensure technical coherence and compatibility. These norms have been incorporated into FHIS'
Operational Manual and complementary guidelines. Technical subproject appraisal would be undertaken
by qualified technical staff from FHIS. In the case of Social Assistance Programs, the Social Assistance
Steering Committee would provide additional advice to FHIS regarding the technical evaluation and
implementation of social assistance programs. Likewise, technical criteria for community and rural water
and sanitation projects would be informed by the Collaborative Group for Water and Sanitation. FHIS's
Operations Manual and complementary guidelines were re-evaluated during project preparation, and a
revised draft set of manuals, including for the Pilot and Special Programs, has been prepared. These would
be finalized and approved by IDA prior to effectiveness.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
As mentioned above, the project would be managed by FHIS. In general, subprojects would be identified
and sponsored by communities, NGOs, and/or local govermment representatives, executed by qualified
private contractors and NGOs, and supervised by FHIS. These arrangements have proved satisfactory
under previous IDA credits. Under the Pilot Programs for Local Institutional Strengthening and Rural
Water and Sanitation, certain municipalities, communities and/or other local agents would assume
increased responsibilities for all or parts of the subproject cycle, with supervision for such involvement
provided by FHIS in coordination with sector agencies, NGOs, and others. Notwithstanding the fact that
FHIS's capacity has been deemed adequate to manage the program, additional technical assistance would
be provided under the project to support the implementation of the pilot programs, and to help ensure
greater continuity during the potential flux in personnel which could follow elections at the end of 2001.
- 19-



4.2 Project management:
Detailed criteria and procedures set out in FHIS's Operational Manual, complementary guidelines, and
PIP, would govem all aspects of project management. The Operational Manual, guidelines, and PIP could
be modified as necessary during project preparation and implementation, subject to agreement with IDA. A
comprehensive program of technical assistance under the FHIS In Project (Cr. 2766-HO) assisted FHIS in
strengthening its institutional capacity in all respects. Experience under the FHIS III and IV Projects has
shown that FHIS' capacity to manage the project is adequate and that the Operations Manual and
guidelines have provided institutional stability even when individual personmel change. Funds would be
provided under the proposed project to enable FHIS to review and improve its operating procedures and
institutional capacity, to maintain state-of-the-art practices, and to respond with flexibility as new
challenges arise.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An institutional assessment carried out recently by IDA found FHIS's capacity and experience in
procurement to be sufficient for project implementation. The assessment, however, identified several areas
requiring further strengthening, including: (i) need for additional staff and support resources (including
physical space) in the contracts department; (ii) subproject programming and procurement planning; (iii)
subproject preparation practices (including field visits and desk review) to minimize contract variations
during execution; (iv) standard bidding documents; (v) qualification and certification procedures for small
contractors; (vi) bid evaluation procedures; and (vii) contract (subproject) supervision practices. FHIS has
already taken steps to address a number of the issues identified (such as hiring additional qualified staff and
streamlining procedures), and has agreed with IDA on the hiring of a consultant, to be funded under a
PHRD grant for project preparation, to carry out a thorough review of FHIS's procurement and contract
management practices and organizational structure. The recommendations of the consultant will be the
basis of a procurement action plan, which will be agreed upon before effectiveness and made part of the
Operations Manual and complementary guidelines, and the PIP. The procurement risk under the project is
considered average, a rating which reflects the areas identified for improvement, but also FHIS's good
experience under past projects and its commitment to improve procedures further prior to effectiveness;
FIS's procurement policies and practices will be monitored closely during project implementation to
ensure that risks are adequately mitigated throughout project implementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project financial management assessment concluded that the system, which is currently in place for the
FHIS IV Project, meets IDA requirements. Nevertheless, some areas for further improvement have been
agreed upon (described in Annex 6).
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
As part of preparation for the proposed project, a comprehensive appraisal of FHIS's environmental
screening and monitoring arrangements was carried out. This evaluation work included: (i) field visits to a
sample of sub-projects FHIS executed since 1998, with emphasis on water and sanitation, health, and
education sub-projects financed by IDA, as well as a sample of environmental sub-projects executed by
FHIS and financed under the Environmental Development Project (Cr. 2653); (ii) an assessment of FHIS
environmental management capacity, including its environmental unit staff and current coordination with
sector agencies, including SERNA; and (iii) an assessment of the environmental impacts associated with
the proposed project. Field visits included a sample of pilot environmental management sub-projects for
watershed erosion control, financed under the FHIS IV Supplemental Credit.
- 20 -



Recommendations to improve FHIS's enviromental management practices, based on the findings of the
above appraisal, were drafted, discussed, and agreed with FHIS officials; a copy can be found in the
project files. Significant issues identified under the new operation and addressed by these recommendations
can be found in the next section. FHIS's Operational Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP will
reflect the recommendations made by the Bank as a result of the enviromental appraisal. A fmal revision of
the OM, complementary guidelines, and PIP will be reviewed by IDA, including the LAC Environmental
Department, prior to effectiveness.
In accordance with OD 4.01, para. 8(d) , the project is listed in category Fl (financial intermediary). The
FHIS, acting as the financial intermediary, is responsible for sub-project preparation, screening, and
implementation. The majority of sub-projects financed by FHIS will fall under environmental Category C,
some will fall under Category B, no "A" projects will be funded. No involuntary resettlement will occur as
a result of sub-projects, either during project execution or implementation.
Since 1995, the FHIS has had an Environmental Unit. The Bank has regularly supervised the operation of
this unit under the FHIS III and FHIS IV operations, and has found the process of environmental screening,
evaluation, and implementation of sub-projects to fully comply with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment),
4.04 (Conservation of Natural Habitats), 4.07 (Water Resources Management), and 4.20 (Indigenous
Groups). These screening mechanisms were designed in accordance with Honduran environmental law.
The environmental screening, monitoring and supervision decision matrix currently used by the FHIS was
designed in accordance with the Ministry of Natural Resources and Enviromnent. A copy of this matrix
can be found in the project files.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
While no formal EMP is required under IDA's Operational Guidelines, the Bank task team did make the
following recommendations to strengthen FIS's environmental evaluation capacity:
*   Strengthening FHIS environmental field monitoring capacity and strategic environmental planning to
improve overall environmental quality of sub-projects. Actions to address this include implementing a
continuous training program in environmental evaluation aimed at evaluators and supervisors;
introducing the use of GIS thematic maps for overlays of ecologically fragile areas, protected areas,
and cultural sites with planned sub-project location; and a random monitoring (no less than 10%) of
sub-projects in different stages of the project cycle.
*  Expansion of water erosion control pilot sub-projects.
*   Strengthening municipal capacities to monitor and follow up on environmental assessments carried out
during each sub-project's preparation. This can be addressed through, among other things, the design
of training modules in environmental impact assessment and mitigation for beneficiary communities.
*   Strengthening of coordination between FHIS and SERNA to improve sub-project environmental quality
at the municipal level.
These measures are considered adequate.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Though no EA was required on the part of the Borrower, the Bank task team did submit an appraisal report
on FHIS's environmental screening, evaluation, supervision, and monitoring processes and institutional
capacity. This document can be found in the project files.
- 21 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Again, though the Borrower was not required to undertake a formal EA, the Bank task team did conduct a
comprehensive appraisal (described above) of FHIS's environmental evaluation mechanisms, which
included extensive fieldwork involving discussions with numerous stakeholders (sub-project beneficiaries,
representatives of local governments, SERNA, etc.) FHlIS staff, including the Environmental Unit,
participated during the environmental appraisal and in the preparation of the recommendations to address
issues raised in the appraisal report.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the irmpact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Though no EMP is required under IDA's Operational Guidelines for this project, FHIS does have
mechanisms (defined in its Operational Manual and complementary guidelines) for an environmental
screening process that allows evaluators to either: (a) incorporate additional civil works that will improve
subproject environmental quality; or (b) send proposed subprojects to the Environmental Unit, and based
upon findings, execute an environmental evaluation, or propose a full environmental impact study, should
proposed subproject field visit require this. Mechanisms have been agreed with SERNA officials in the
context of an institutional agreement that was signed in August 31, 1995.
During implementation of the proposed project, periodic evaluations and monitoring (including random
assessments of sub-project quality to be carried out by external consultants) will verify adherence to
sub-project environmental evaluation mechanisms, and impact evaluations would include assessments of
sustainability of environmental impacts. Monitoring will be closely coordinated with the Environmental
Unit. In addition, FIHIS will add to its monitoring system three indicators reflecting the institution's
environmental capacity, including: (a) number of communities with additional environmental components
added to the sub-project; (b) number of communities trained using FHIS environmental modules; and (c)
percent of sub-projects that comply with environmental guidelines after project execution.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Experience under previous phases of the FHIS program has shown wide support for FHIS's activities and
approaches. FHIS aims to put local actors at the center of the development process, from identification of
their needs to sub-project implementation to carrying out effective sustainability strategies. Highlights of
the project's social development strategy include:
*  Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening. This program, designed on the basis of extensive
consultations with representatives of central and local governments, NGOs, and communities, aims to
develop and test innovative approaches to improve the capacities of communities and local
governments to work together, and in better coordination with other stakeholders at the local, regional
and national level.
*  Nuestras Raices. As described in Annexes 2 and 11, the Nuestras Raices program would address the
issues of lack of access to markets, basic services, and financial services to initiate productive
activities. These issues have been identified as significant barriers to development among indigenous
communities. A Social and Institutional Assessment for the Nuestras Raices program was carried out
between May and October 2000 (see Annex 11). It comprises the lessons learned from previous phases
of the Nuestras Raices program and capitalizes on the results of those phases for the preparation of
- 22 -



Nuestras Raices IV. The objectives, implementation, mode of delivery and monitoring mechanisms of
the Program have been discussed by representatives of FHIS, the Ten Autochthonous Federations and
IDA in quarterly workshops.
* Gender Issues. In 1998, an IDA consultant conducted a study on gender issues in FHIS, and found
FHIS to be at the forefront among Central American SIFs in striving to ensure women's participation
throughout the project cycle. A KfW funded consultant has also conducted a study on women who
have been hired for the construction of FHIS sub-projects and found that all participants (FHIS,
contractors, employees, and beneficiaries) have been satisfied. Evidence showed that FHIS's
implementation of a strategy for gender integration exhibited some weaknesses during the hurricane
emergency; recent revisions to the Operations Manual, complementary guidelines, and the PIP have
highlighted FHIS's plans to fortify activities in this areas. The Social Assistance Innovations Fund and
the Nuestras Raices program include a number of activities especially targeted at poor/disadvantaged
women.
*   Social Assistance Innovations Fund. To improve FHIS's support for social assistance programs, the
project would support the creation of a Social Assistance Steering Committee, consisting initially of
representatives of IHNFA, NGOs, and FHIS, to advise FHIS in its management of the Social
Assistance subprogram. The program explicitly aims to strengthen the capacities of smaller NGOs and
others with potential for improving attention to the vulnerable / disadvantaged through social assistance
programs.
*  Pilot Program for Rural Water and Sanitation. This program will test three subproject
implementation models, each emphasizing the distinct but complementary roles of communities,
municipalities, NGOs, and FHIS in the selection, design, financing, implementation, and sustainability
of rural water and sanitation subprojects.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
(See also Section E5 above, and Annex 11 on the Social Assessment.)
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Stakeholders     Identification/Preparati    Implementation          Operation
on
Community             Focus groups/interviews Training, capacity    Community contributions
Representatives       (IS, CON)              building, beneficiary  and commitments
assessments (IS, CON,  up-front (COL)
COL)
Internediary          Interviews/participatory  Participation as    Some management of
Organizations (NGOs,   workshops (IS, CON)   contractors, and in local  completed sub-projects
some private sector)                         planning. Membership in (esp. social assistance
Social Assist. Steering   sub-projects).
Committee, and        (COL)
Inter-Institutional Water
Forum (IS, CON, COL)
Local Governments      Consultations on design  Coordination with   Commitments and
of Pilot Program for local communities in    contributions up-front,
institutional strengthening sub-project planning, will through sub-project
(IS, CON)             receive capacity building maintenance plans (COL)
(IS, CON, COL)
- 23 -



Central Government    Interviews/participatory  Coordination to ensure   Operation of some
agencies              workshops (IS, CON)   sub-projects are      completed infrastructure
consistent wtih sectoral  sub-projects (COL)
strategies (IS, CON)
Other Donors          Cooperation w/ KfW and Cooperation w/ KfW,
_IDB (IS, CON, COL)   IDB (IS, CON, COL)
Note: IS = Information Sharing; CON = Consultation; COL = Collaboration
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As specified in FHIS's Operational Manual and complementary guidelines, each subproject financed will
include a set of training modules aimed at strengthening project sustainability at the local level. NGOs
specialized in community training will be selected and hired for implementation of modules. Training
modules will be approved and implemented before a sub project starts, so that the community organization
responsible for project maintenance (ORMA) will be prepared when infrastructure component is complete.
During sub-project execution, each ORMA will participate in the training modules for project
sustainability, the control and monitoring of the sub project, and in solving local problems should conflicts
arise during project execution.
Nuestras Raices. The program will finance quarterly workshops to ensure tight collaboration with
stakeholders, not only during program preparation, but also for close monitoring and evaluation throughout
the life of the program. As mentioned above, close collaboration with federations of ethnic groups is
foreseen.
Local Institutional Strengthening Component. NGOs will help strengthen local capacity by training
municipal staff and community leaders involved in the planning process and by preparing the social
investment municipal plans in participating municipalities. During project preparation, AMHON played a
key role assisting FHIS and IDA preparation team members in the design of the proposed methodology.
AHMON will continue to play a key role in the implementation process, assisting FHIS and IDA in
monitoring progress at the municipal level.
Social Assistance Innovations Fund. FIDAS has been developed in close collaboration with IHNFA and
representatives from the umbrella NGOs involved in Social Assistance in the country, through a working
group. This working group will coordinate efforts with FHIS throughout the implementation of the
program, ensuring that evaluation criteria defined in FIDAS's operational manual are applied in the
selection of projects. Social assistance NGOs will be able to present proposals for specific target groups.
In addition, FIDAS includes an institutional training component designed to strengthen design and
execution capacities of NGOs.
Pilot Program for Water and Sanitation in Rural Dispersed Communities. This Program has been
extensively discussed with FIlS's management and with other key stakeholders in the water and sanitation
sector, including the Ministry of Health, SANAA, and leading NGOs active in the sector. The aim of the
program is to test and demonstrate decentralized arrangements for water and sanitation in rural dispersed
areas. During implementation of the program, the Collaborative Group for Water and Sanitation, the
sector's open forum, headed by Ministry of Health, and including NGOs and other institutions representing
the sector, will be invited by FHIS to provide advice on technical and social issues in the pilot program.
- 24 -



6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
FHIS will be responsible for project implementation. The project places renewed emphasis on training and
local capacity building, as described in previous sections. Technical assistance has been provided under
the project to ensure adequate staffing for each special / pilot program, with an emphasis on persons
qualified in social aspects of development. The following additional arrangements have been made:
*   the Municipal Strengthening Unit inside FHIS, will coordinate, together with other operational units in
FHIS, the Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot Program.
*   the Water and Sanitation Unit, recently created in FHIS, and staffed with one specialist and two
assistants, will coordinate the Rural Water and Sanitation Pilot Program.
* the Social Assistance Unit, staffed with a social specialist, will coordinate the Social Assistance
Innovations Fund.
* for Nuestras Raices IV, a Program Implementation Unit at FHIS is working with the Ten
Autochthonous Federations for optimal project implementation results.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Regular consultation with beneficiaries will be supported as part of M&E activities. Findings from those
consultations would be used to improve project implementation. Special evaluations are also foreseen
under each pilot component. For Nuestras Raices IV, an ex-ante, ex-post and impact evaluation are
included in program design. Institutional arrangements are being put in place for efficient monitoring of
every phase of the program.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safe   d policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes O No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   ( Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    O Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                               -      C) Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  C) Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Compliance with environmental policies is described in section 5 above. The present project complies with
O.D. 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples by means of the inclusion of Nuestras Raices IV, specifically targeted to
indigenous and Afro-Honduran men, women and youths. Nuestras Raices Program is designed within the
framework of ILO Agreement 169 on the Rights of Indigenous and Tribal Peoples.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
a. Continued coordination with line agencies and agreement on their responsibilities for operation and
maintenance costs.
- 25 -



b. Beneficiary participation in all phases of subproject cycle, including up-front contributions and
commitments.
c. Improvements in the capacities of local governments to work with communities and with relevant
national authorities, to ensure operations and maintenance of local investments.
d. Improvements in subproject appraisal criteria to include assessments of institutional, technical, and
financial capacities of municipalities/communities to handle maintenance; these assessments would
include a review of plans, commitments and contributions (in the form of "maintenance contracts") from
all relevant actors. The project could include support to help municipalities/communities improve weak
capacities.
e. Training of beneficiaries in subproject use and maintenance, formation of user committees.
The proposed project's development objectives would not depend upon the sustainability of FHIS as an
institution per se, and therefore the project does not provide for a continuation of FlITS beyond the time
period for which financing would be provided. It is worth mentioning however, that, to the extent that
external financing remains available after completion of the proposed project, and as pointed out in
the"Lessons Learned" section above, dissolution of FHIS is not expected any time soon. With regard to the
sustainability of the project's institution building initiatives, it is hoped that the stakeholder alliances that
are sought, and the TA to be provided, under the Social Assistance Innovations Fund, the Pilot Program to
Strengthen Rural Water Systems, and the Nuestras Raices program will lay the groundwork for more
lasting associations in these sectors. It is also hoped that the local/municipal development activities to be
piloted under this project will also have a more general impact in contributing to better, and lasting, local
capacities for designing, financing, managing, and sustaining development strategies. However, major
improvements in such local governance capacities are not expected as a direct consequence of the project,
since these would require national policy reforms (e.g., fiscal decentralization, tax reform, etc.) that fall
well beyond the scope of this project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government maintains policy directions      N         Confirmation was received from the
conducive to FHIS effectiveness.                      Government regarding the congruence of the
Project's basic objectives / strategy and national
plans for poverty alleviation, social sector and
local/municipal development. Ongoing IDA /
Government dialogue during implementation.
Subprojects do not reflect the              N         Community participation and commitment
priorities/needs of beneficiaries.                    (including contributions) will be evaluated as
criteria for subproject selection.
Capacity-building activities to improve the role
of local governments in coordinating
participatory planning of investments.
Targeting mechanisms are weak, and are      N         Review of targeting criteria during project
subjected to political interference.                  preparation. Close supervision, external studies
during implementation. Revisions to poverty
map following 2001 census.
- 26 -



Line agencies, and/or other actors, fail     M         Mechanisms to ensure continued close
to provide adequate resources for staff                cooperation between FHIS and line ministries.
and operation of facilities.                           Increased role for local governments in ensuring
subproject maintenance. The 1998 Impact
Evaluation showed that experience has been
adequate (see Annex 4); nonetheless, this risk
will be monitored closely.
Beneficiaries do not participate in          M         Training, ongoing emphasis on community
appropriate use and maintenance of                     participation.
subprojects.
Lack of willingness of local                 M         Strict oversight of municipalities participating in
governments to foster community                        pilot program. Pilot program will allow
participation and coordination with other              assessment of experience.
stakeholders regarding local development
strategies.
Inadequate application of improved           M         Close supervision by IDA, and collaboration
eligibility criteria for assessing viability           with other main cofinancing agencies to ensure
and sustainability of subproject,                      oversight of this issue. Independent evaluations
particularly in the water and sanitation               and TA planned througout implementation,
sector.                                                including under Rural Water and Sanitation
pilot.
From Components to Outputs
FHIS fails to attract and retain             M         Pay competitive salaries. IDA's insistence on
competent staff.                                       minimal political interference in staffing
decisions.
Subcontractors (including subproject         N         Appropriate selection criteria, incentive systems,
implementing agencies, intermediary                    and supervision (both by FHIS and by IDA).
organizations, extemal
auditors, etc.) are not competent.
FHIS capacity / commnitment to               M         Extensive support provided to FHIS during pilot
implement diversity of activities under                preparation, and follow-up technical assistance
Pilot and Special Programs flags.                      planned during implementation under each
special / pilot program. Government
commitment reaffirmed at negotiations. Annual
reviews to monitor and adjust as needed
throughout implementation.
Social Assistance Board does not function    M         Close supervision by IDA. Future funding for
effectively                                            social assistance program should be tied to
positive evaluations.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-27 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                  Type of Risk Risk Rating Risk Minimization Measure
Political interference in   M      M           Close supervision. Consultation with senior
FHIS                                           government officials and other stakeholders during
preparation and implementation. Clear
operational guidelines reduce discretionality in
operational decisions. As in the past, IDA would
have to be consulted prior to any proposed
changes in key staff. Pacing and distribution of
new commitments for subprojects will be
monitored closely during election year (2001).
Resistance from central  G         M           Consultation with stakeholders during project
or local stakeholders to                       preparation. Use of Pilot Program, with phased
increased role of                              implementation, to test feasibility of changes.
municipalities
Consensus on focus of   G          M           Intensive consultation with stakeholders during
Nuestras Raices program                        preparation and planned throughout
weakens.                                      implementation. Confirmations received regarding
commitments on all sides to focus on operational
merits of program. Program calls for close
collaboration with and technical assistance for key
stakeholders. Close supervision by IDA planned.
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Govemance), M (Management capacity), 0
(Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to IDA, between FHIS-and the Government of Honduras
FHIS will issue revised Operations Manual Guidelines and PIP, satisfactory to IDA.
Update inter-institutional agreements to govem inter-institutional coordination, with the Ministries of
Healh, Education, Culture, Environment, IHNFA, and AMHON, satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Maintenance of agreements to govem inter-institutional coordination, with the Ministries of Healh,
Education, Culture, Environment, IHNFA, and AMHON, satisfactory to IDA.
Government will provide necessary counterpart funds to cover its share of FHIS investment costs,
operating costs, and any incremental recurrent costs of completed FHIS investments.
FHIS will present regular progress, planning, and audit reports, as described in Section C.4 above. FHIS
will conduct joint Annual Implementation Reviews with IDA.
-28 -



FHIS will maintain its staffing, Operational Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP satisfactory to
IDA.
FHIS will ensure that monitoring and evaluation of project implementation and impact, including
beneficiary assessments, are carried out regularly throughout the life of the project, satisfactory to IDA.
H. Readiness for Implementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Note: Further improvements to FHIS's procurement documents and PIP are expected prior to effectiveness.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Did Seth Warren               Xav er E. Coll                    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Country Manager
-29-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indbcators:        Sector country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To alleviate and reduce
poverty and contributc to
social development by: (i)
helping conimunities
devastated by Hurricane Mitch
to continue to rebuild; (ii)
expanding and more
efficiently distributing priority
public sector services,
particularly in health,
education, water and
sanitation, and economic
infrastructure; (iii) addressing
priority social needs through
special programs for
disadvantaged and
under-served groups; and (iv)
supporting decentralization by
emphasizing and relying
significantly upon the
participation of community
organizations and local
govemments.
- 30 -



Project Development          Outcome I Impact              Project reports:              (frorn Objective to Goal)
ObJective:                   Indicators:
The proposed project would    I . Increase in rates of access  Impact Monitoring and     Economic growth
continue IDA's support for the    and utilization of social and   Evaluation System, and
successful FHIS program, aiming economic infrastructure.   Beneficiary Assessments       Sound macroeconomic
to increase access among the poor                                                        policies/discipline
to small-scale social and    2. Increased access among the FHIS's Management
economic infrastructure in   disadvantaged / vulnerable to  Information System (MIS)    Subprojects are sustained
development priorities; to   appropriate social assistance
develop social assistance    programs.
programs for disadvantaged
groups; and to contribute to the   3. Evidence that investments
prospects for sustainability of    are targeted to he poor.
such investments
4. Evidence that investments
reflect the priorities of he
targeted communities and
beneficiaries.
5. Evidence that subprojects
are in operation and
maintained for a reasonable
number of years, depending
on subproject type.
- 31 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Subprojects of good     1. Amount and number of    Supervision Mission ad       Government maintains policy
quality. (Subprojects would  subprojects; breakdown by    Annual Reviews           directions conductive to FHIS
include social and economic  type of subproject; evidence of                       effectiveness
infrastructure and training to  quality of subprojects  Financial and Operations
enhance sustainability.)                               Audits                      Subprojects reflect the
priorities/needs of
Progress Reports           beneficiaries
M&E System, including      Targeting mechanisms are
ex-post reviews and        good, and are implemented
beneficiary assessments    with minimal political
interference
FHIS MIS, including set of
operations performance     Line agencies, or other actors,
indictors                  provide adequate resources to
staff and operate facilities
Beneficiaries participate in
appropriate use and
maintenance of subprojects
2. In Local Institutional  2. (a) All municipalities                               Willingness of local
Strengthening Pilot        carrying out participatory                              governments to foster
Municipalities, strengthened  local planning exercises by                          community participation and
institutional, technical, and   end of project; evidence of                        coordination with other
financial capacities at the  quality of such exercises; (b)                        stakeholders regarding local
local level, to improve    20 municipalities managing                              development strategies
participatory planning and    subproject cycle; (c) 30
prioritizing, management of  municipalities with a coherent
subproject cycle, and      and working plan for
sustainability of          maintenance of subprojects
FHIS-financed investments
3. Development of effective   3. (a) 100 sustainable RWS
approach(es) and institutional systems, benefitting 30,000
arrangements for sustainable  users, prepared and executed
and cost-effective solutions in at cost levels close to national
the rural water and sanitation  average for comparable
sector.                    systems; (b) Operational
Manual, instruments, and plan
for scaling-up prepared in
collaboration with Grupo
Collaborativo.
- 32 -



4. Development of innovative 4. Numbers / shares of
social assistance programs to  beneficiaries reached by
address the needs of key  FIDAS. Evidence of
vulnerable groups, and    srengthened capacity among
strengthened coordination and smaller NGOs and other
capacity in the social    community organizations.
assistance sector.        Note: Additional indicators,
baseline data, and specific
targets would be established
for each funded social
assistance subproject.
5. Community works        5. Number of community
subprojects in indigenous  works projects, consistent with
communities, consistent with  beneficiaries priorities,
local needs and priorities, and implemented and supported,
strengthened capacities in    as required, by technical
these communities, and    assistance; evidence of
among liaisons working with  strengthened organizational
these communities, to     capacity at the various levels
organize and manage       of program intervention.
community banks and
productive activities.
6. Efficiently operating
institution. This includes
application of appropriate
methodologies and criteria
(reflected in FHIS's
Operational Manual,
complementary guidelines,
and PIP, revised as necessary
during implementation) for all
phases of subproject cycle,
including resource allocation,
subproject identification,
formulation, evaluation,
contracting, and supervision
7. Useful lessons learned from  7. Description and analysis of                  FHIS capacity commitment
pilot components          lessons learned                                       to implement diversity of
activities under Pilot and
Special Programs remains
strong.
- 33-



fism 20492u,  a               DiburemntReors LAI)agncie, laExtraW           uios
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reportse (from  Components to
Su b-components:           com ponent)                                             Outputs)
1. Subproject Financing    US$1I12.92 million          Progress Reports           Subcontractors (including
subproject implcmenting
Disbursement Reports (LACI) agencies, extemal auditors,
etc.) are competent (applies to
all components)
Operational Manual,
complementary guidelines,
and technical specifications
are thorough, appropriate, and
applied (applies to all
components).
2(a) Pilot Program for Local  US$21.03 million                                     Willingness by local
Institutional Strengthening                                                       government authorities and
other stakeholders to
participate in institutional
strengthening activities
2(b) Pilot Program to      US$3.40 million                                         Association of water agencies
Strengthen Rural Water &                                                           functions effectively
Sanitation Services
2(c) Social Assistance     US$6.00 million                                         Social assistance board
Innovations Fund                                                                   functions effectively
2(d) Nuestras Raices ("Our   US$12.71 million
Roots")
3. Project Management      US$19.98 million                                        FHIS can attract and retain
competent staff
-34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
The project's basic structure is essentially the same as that of the SIF IV project, resources of which were
diverted to finance community-level reconstruction following Hurricane Mitch. The project builds on the
successful experience of nearly ten years worth of support through FHIS, to provide financing for
small-scale social and economic infrastructure and social assistance subprojects identified by poor
communities and/or their representatives. At the same time, the project employs FHIS's capacities for
flexibility and innovation to support several special and pilot programs designed to provide early impact for
poor communities and at the same time to provide lessons regarding the effectiveness of new approaches
and policies. The operations guidelines and instruments for the four special / pilot programs have been
analyzed and developed in more detail since the SIF IV project, and these four programs have been
regrouped into a single component (with four subcomponents) to enable a more effective monitoring of
these activities. Specific monitoring and evaluation activities are foreseen within each component and
subcomponent in order to focus increased attention and to reflect the differing methodologies that would be
required to evaluate each distinct activity under the program. A number of activities have also been
re-costed.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$112.92 million
Subproject Financing. This component would enable FHIS to continue to support a wide range of
small-scale subprojects for the expansion / improvement of basic social and economic infrastructure, as
well as for the provision of accompanying training in operations and maintenance. Subprojects would be
identified by beneficiaries and prioritized through local participatory planning processes, in coordination
with local government representatives, NGOs, and sectoral agencies. Subprojects eligible for financing will
have to meet technical, financial, economic, social and environmental criteria set out in the Operations
Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP. Based on experience, the majority of demands are expected
to be for works, equipment, materials and training in operation and maintenance, related to: schools, health
centers, water supply systems, latrines, small-scale community / municipal infrastructure (including access
roads, bridges, markets, culverts), cultural heritage sites (archeological and historical monuments), and
environmental infrastructure (mainly watershed protection and reforestation). The component would
finance subprojects (including goods and works), technical services for design, supervision, and training for
capacity building (including in operations and maintenance), and consulting services for impact evaluation.
FHIS would continue to allocate its resources for Social and Economic Infrastructure Subprojects to all
municipalities on the basis of a formula incorporating population and poverty indicators, with relatively
more funds allocated on a per capita basis to the poorer municipalities. The formula has recently been
revised to increase the weight given to poverty indicators vs. population. This system provides
transparency in the use of funds, and helps ensure that social investment expenditures are spread
throughout the country, with an emphasis on areas that have been historically disadvantaged in terms of
access to basic social services. Moreover, transparent ex-ante resource allocations provide a budget
constraint that can force, and enable, local jurisdictions to make economic choices regarding the relative
priorities among investment options. The poverty map would be revised following the results of the 2001
census.
The project would not require FHIS to apply sectoral targets (i.e., fixed percentage allocations to each
sector), since these can unnecessarily constrain FHIS's capacity to respond flexibly to local demand, and
can therefore reduce allocation efficiency as well as the prospects for sustainability of investments.
- 35 -



Instead, the project would build upon past experiences in using education, promotion, and pre-investment
financing as tactics to stimulate demand and to enable local communities to make informed decisions
regarding their investment options.
With regard to the subproject menu, FHIS would continue to apply a pre-established, albeit wide-ranging,
menu oriented toward basic infrastructure and services; this is a response to: (i) FHIS's targeting strategy,
since this menu tends to be self-targeted to poor communities; (ii) continued substantial investment needs,
and scarce resources, in the water, sanitation, education, health and economic infrastructure sectors.
Indeed, as mentioned above, line ministries depend on FHIS for infrastructure investments in these sectors;
(iii) FHIS's comparative advantage in attending to these sectors, and a desire to avoid becoming spread too
thinly; and (iv) an interest in ensuring transparency, and forestalling potential political manipulation, in the
application of funds. Nonetheless, FHIS's menu and the Credit Agreement would be flexible enough to
permit consideration of non-menu items in certain cases where there is clearly demonstrated local public
interest. Moreover, as mentioned below, FHIS plans to experiment with the application of a "negative list
menu" in a few municipalities under the pilot program.
Project Component 2 - US$43.14 million
Pilot and Special Programs
(a) Local Institutional Strengthening (US$21.03 million). This component would constitute a set of
structured experiments designed to develop, test, and draw lessons regarding innovative approaches and
methodologies for encouraging and enabling communities and local governments to work together more
effectively, and in (better) coordination with stakeholders at the local, regional, and national levels. The
component would cover three interrelated aspects: (a) participatory local planning; (b) preventive
maintenance; and (c) tranfer of (some) functions and responsibilities for subproject processing from FHIS
to municipalities and communities. The component would finance training and accompaniment of
communities and municipalities as they apply the methodologies and instruments, technical assistance to
monitor, evaluate, and document the experience and lessons learned under the component, and investment
subprojects in a small group of "Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot Municipalities". Additional detail
is provided in Annex 13.
(b) Strengthening Rural Water and Sanitation Services (US$3.40 million). This component would
provide technical assistance, training, and supplemental subproject financing (in "Rural Water and
Sanitation Pilot Municipalities") to develop and test innovative methodologies and creative partnerships
aimed at improving attention to rural communities' needs for water systems and the sustainability of such
investments, and at drawing lessons for improved attention to, and sectoral coordination in, the water
sector. The component's design would emphasize demand-responsiveness, cost-recovery, and community
control in the subproject process, and would rely significantly on the involvement of local governments,
NGOs, and private service providers. The component is explained in more detail in Annex 12.
(c) Social Assistance Innovations Fund (US$6.00 million). This component would foster the development
of innovative approaches to address the needs of key vulnerable groups, by providing financing for
proposals (submitted by NGOs, community organizations, the private sector, etc.) on the basis of a
competition overseen by a Steering Committee of key stakeholders. To broaden the types of sub projects
and to give incentives to innovative approaches in the area of social assistance, the different investments
under FIDAS will not be pre-determined, only the "rules" will be laid out, including the target groups and
target outcomes that should be addressed in the proposals. The key target groups that have been identified
through consultations carried out during project preparation by consultants working in close collaboration
with FHIS, the Government Child and Family Welfare Agency (IHNFA) and representatives from umbrella
- 36 -



NGOs involved in Social Assistance, include:
*   Children and youth at high-risk (0-18 years) (including street children, working children, sexually
exploited children and adolescent mothers, malnourished children 0-6)
* Disabled children and adults in extreme poverty
*   Families in extreme poverty
* Elderly in extreme poverty, and
* Ethnic minority communities
Some of the targeted results for these beneficiary groups include (i) improved employment opportunities,
(ii) improved education opportunities, (iii) reduced risks for children and youth. Proposals are expected to
include for example support to street children shelters, alternative education activities for disabled or
teenage mothers, recreational activities for poor children in the afternoon to keep them off the streets,
training in productive activities, programs to involve families in community decision making, etc. There
will be two competitive funding cycles per year, each targeting one or two specific beneficiary group. To
broaden the capacity base and to build trust, a Consultative Board (Mesa de Consulta) - consisting of
representatives from FHIS, the Government Child and Family Welfare Ministry (IHNFA) and one
representative from each of the Honduran umbrella NGOs (working with the identified target groups) - will
be responsible for evaluating and prioritizing proposals. This Consultative Board will complement FHIS's
capacity in the area of social assistance. In addition, experts in a spcific area can be invited to the
Consultative Board on a needs basis. To ensure transparency, the evaluation will be based on a pre-defmed
set of criteria. FIDAS will also provide capacity building for smaller NGOs and other less experienced
organizations in preparing proposals for funding, carrying out simple baseline studies and in M&E. The
Fund will be implemented over a four year period. The success of FIDAS will rely heavily on how well the
fund attracts organizations with innovative ideas and how well the "rules" of the fund are understood. The
first months will therefore focus on an intense promotion campaign of the Fund to key stakeholders in all
parts of the country. This will be repeated before every new competition period (2 per year). The
component includes financing for social assistance subprojects, as well as technical assistance for
capacity-building, promotion, supervision, and evaluation.
(d) Nuestras Raices (US$12.71 million). Nuestras Raices seeks to improve the living conditions and
promote social capital in indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities by financing small-scale subprojects
(identified by the communities and selected according to eligibility criteria established by FHIS and the
indigenous peoples' federations) using paid labor of community members, and then providing training to
such community members to help them organize, establish / develop small community banks, and finance
agricultural and commercial income-generating activities initiated and identified by the communities
themselves. Institutional strengthening of ethnic Federations, capacity building of communities,
coordinators, FHIS, and ethnic liaisons are substantial elements of the program. The component includes
financing for subprojects, and technical assistance for design, supervision, capacity building, and program
evaluation. (See Annex 11 for additional information on indigenous communities and on this component.)
Project Component 3 - USS 19.98 million
Project Management. This component would include:
(a) FHIS Operating Costs (US$19.33 million). These are estimated at 11% of the FHIS program's total
costs.
(b) Institutional Strengthening (US$0.15 million). This would include training, TA, study tours, and
workshops to improve FHIS operations, including in areas to be identified during implementation.
(c) Equipment and Vehicles (US$0.2 million); and
(d) External Auditing (US$0.3 million).
- 37 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1. Subproject Financing                                   90.33        22.58        112.91
2. (a) Local Institutional Strengthening                  16.28         4.76         21.04
(b) Strengthening Rural Water & Sanitation Services     2.65          0.76         3.41
(c) Social Assistance Innovations Fund                  4.72          1.28         6.00
(d) "Our Roots" (Nuestras Raices)                      10.13          2.57        12.70
3. Project Management                                     19.75         0.24         19.99
Total Baseline Cost                                      143.86        32.19        176.05
Physical Contingencies                                    0.00         0.00          0.00
Price Contingencies                                       0.00         0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs             143.86        32.19        176.05
Total Financing Required             143.86        32.19        176.05
NOTE: Since the project is essentially a financial intermediary type operation, and physical targets are not
the main objectives of the proposed project, no contingencies have been provided for the subprojects. Any
increase in the average subproject cost would be reflected in a reduced number of subprojects executed.
Assumed price contingencies would be negligeable.
- 38 -



Annex 4
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Economic Analysis Summary
The purpose of this annex is to summarize the economic analysis of the proposed activities to be
financed under the project. At the macro level, the economic analysis assesses whether FHIS is displacing
private investment and/or substituting for other public investments that would have taken place ("crowding
out"); or, alternatively, whether it is creating positive incentives for greater public and private investments
to occur ("crowding in"). At the level of the FHIS as a delivery mechanism, the economic analysis assesses
whether the program's resources are reaching the poor, and whether they are being used optimally and
efficiently. In addition, the analysis also draws on the results of a recent evaluation of the impact of the
FHIS program during the 1994-97 period. /1 (This evaluation also forms part of the Social Funds 2000
initiative, a Bank-sponsored multi-country evaluation of social funds.)
Economic Analysis at the Macro Level
Crowding In: FHIS has been instrumental in attracting additional foreign resources to social investments.
Over the period 1995-98, donor inflows averaged US$23 million yearly. Given the average investment
levels of the line agencies in health, education, and water and sanitation both before and during the
implementation of the FHIS program, it is clear that FHIS has attracted resources for social investments
that would not otherwise have been available at those levels. Government contribution to the FHIS
programn during this period has amounted to 17 percent of total funds. There is also evidence from the
recent Impact Evaluation Study that FHIS has "crowded in" resources at the local level, in the form of
beneficiary contributions (including labor, money, materials, and other contributions). FHIS also promotes
mobilization of additional resources from communities and municipalities for maintenance of investments,
and through the promotion of participation, fosters the creation of another kind of asset: social capital.
Crowding Out: In terms of the potential for FHIS to crowd out private investment, given the poverty level
of communities, the likelihood that a FHIS investment would cause community members to switch from
private to public services is slim. This is confirmed in the impact evaluation study, which found no
evidence of such shift.
As far as public sector crowding out is concerned, a review of available information for the 1991-98 period
suggests that FIRS has not crowded out investments that would otherwise have been made by the line
ministries. In the education sector, in principle, the inherent risk of crowding out is high, given the national
policy directive in 1996 to have FIRS formally take on the responsibility for school rehabilitation and
construction instead of the Ministry of Education (MOE). However, MOE has long been investing very
little in infrastructure (in the early 1990s, about 2 percent of its total budget), and it is unlikely that MOE
would have been able to channel as much money into education infrastructure as FIlS has. Furthermore,
the net effect of FHIS may well have been to create greater space in the MOE budget to finance
non-infrastructure investments. In health, where infrastructure as a share of overall expenditures has been
historically higher than in the education sector (averaging about 5-6 percent), incremental investment in
health centers by FHIS has on average doubled the total amount of resources going for infrastructure.
Only recently (1997-98) has the MOH budget for infrastructure experienced a decrease, in part due to the
closing of some donor-financed projects. In the water and sanitation sector, FHIS does not have the
dominant role in terms of infrastructure investments that it has in education and health. During the period
1991-97, FHIS's share of public sector investments in water and sanitation was about 14%. The data do
not indicate crowding out by FHIS.
- 39-



Economic Analysis of the FHIS as a Delivery Mechanism.
In theory, the overall social rate of return on a social fund's portfolio is comprised of the sum of the
weighted rates of return on each subproject less the administrative costs of carrying out the program. Since
a social fund is a targeted intervention, social rates of retun will be higher the better the targeting
performance of the fund. Because of the demand-driven nature of the FHIS, the specific social rate of
return cannot be known ex-ante. Therefore, this economic analysis assesses the mechanisms and policies in
place to ensure that the poor are reached; that subprojects financed are economically viable, cost-effective,
and considered priorities by beneficiaries; and that administrative costs are within reason.
Poverty Targeting Performance. Targeting of FHIS investments has improved over time. At the
municipal level, 51 percent of FHIS resources were absorbed by municipalities ranked "poor" and "very
poor" during the 1994-1997 period, versus 41 percent from 1990-93. (Under the SIF IV project, FHIS
revised its poverty map and further increased the share of resources allocated to the poorer municipalities.)
However, municipal-level targeting is an insufficient tool to ensure either that the better-off households
within poorer municipalities are excluded or that the poorer communities in wealthier municipalities have
sufficient access.
To confirm micro-level targeting performance, the 1999 Impact Evaluation carried out household surveys
of FHIS beneficiaries. The findings presented in the table below show that: (a) FHIS is well-targeted at the
household level, with 22% of FHIS beneficiary households found in the poorest decile; (b) intensity of
benefits is even greater in the poorest households, with 40% of FHIS resources reaching the lowest income
deciles; (c) targeting incidence varies widely by type of sub-project, with health and education most
concentrated in the lowest deciles and sewerage benefiting largely the better-off.
Table 1. Indicence of FHIS Benefits at the Household Level, Based on Per capita Income
Deciles of households at the lational level. from poor (1) to rich (10)
I     2      3      4       5      6        7         8       9        10
/population   22.0  15.3  11.8   8.9    6.9    8.3        11.8     7.5     4.0      3.5
% FHIS
resources
Education     36.0  10.0  6.2    5.1    10.5   3.9        4.9       16.0    5.1      2.3
Health        36.0  14.7  12.7   7.0    14.2   2.7        4.3       4.6      1.2     2.6
Water         18.2  13.0  13.1   12.8   10.0   5.2         10.4     9.6     3.1      4.6
Sewerage      6.3   7.2   5.4    5.7    8.7    6.6         7.6      42.5    6.0      4.1
Latrines      12.9  16.7  15.8   13.3   19.4   10.2    4.5          4.4      1.2     1.5
Total         29.5  10.8  8.0    6.6    11.0   4.6         5.8      16.5    4.4      2.7
Source: "Impact Evaluation of FHIS IF", ESA Consultores, 1999.
Economic Analysis of Sub-Projects. In accordance with its Operational Manual, and subject to minimum
requirements agreed with the relevant sector agencies, FHIS uses detailed technical criteria, standard
designs, and simple economic criteria (e.g., cost-per-beneficiary calculations) to determine subproject
economic viability. This includes application of a comprehensive list of unit costs by type of subproject
and by region, which is being updated at least twice a year. /2
-40 -



Ex-ante economic analysis also takes recurrent cost and sustainability issues into consideration. For
example, for schools and health centers, attention is paid to facilities having the appropriate staffing prior
to approval by FHIS. In recent years, FHIS has improved its commitment to ensuring that maintenance is
carried out by moving from a more formalistic procedure whereby the ministries sign agreements, to a more
operational approach, supported through contracts for training in operations and maintenance of
conmmunity groups. In the water and sanitation sector, FHIS has received technical assistance to develop
various models for estimating needed tariff levels based on operations and maintenance costs. /3
FHIS's design also fosters greater allocative efficiency in public expenditure. Through the promotion of
participatory local decision-making, FHIS empowers communities to allocate scarce resources across
sectors, thereby ensuring that such resources are applied optimally, in response to local priorities. This
participation also contributes to local ownership, which, combined with other complementary activities that
FHIS provides (such as training of end-users), enhances sustainability of subprojects and extends the life of
investment benefit streams.
Administrative Efficiency. FHIS's overhead and administrative expenses have a direct bearing on the
social rate of return of its portfolio. One of the main strengths of FHIS has been its ability to translate
resources into small-scale investments relatively quickly and efficiently. Operational costs have averaged
about 10 percent over the 1998-2000 period, which is consistent with the levels observed in other social
investment funds.
Impact Evaluation Study. The quality of FHIS's ex-ante appraisal system can be measured against the
results of the 1999 Impact Evaluation, which found that FHIS investments, generally, were operating,
well-maintained, corresponded to community priorities, and were contributing significantly to
improvements in the well-being of poor communities in Honduras. Some of the key findings are as follows:
*   In the education sector, primary school investments appear to be extending the useful life of buildings
(through rehabilitation), increasing availability of desks, reducing class size (average of 30 students per
classroom versus a national average of 37), and contributing to an improvement in the number of 7-8
year olds who are in the appropriate grade for their respective ages. No observable impact on
enrollment was noted; this result is possibly due to an insufficient sample size for measuring such an
impact, although FHIS's focus on rehabilitation of existing schools, along with other demand-side
factors, may limit the potential for FHIS investments to improve enrollment.
* In the health sector, there is clear evidence of positive returns from an increased propensity for the sick
to use health centers: where FHIS had invested in a health center, 51% of sick people had sought
medical attention, compared with 41% for the populations not yet attended to by FHIS. Moreover,
FHIS-supported health centers displayed much better quality of construction than non-FHIS centers,
and tended to have a larger number of community volunteers assisting in the center's operation and
maintenance.
*   In the water sector, FHIS investments were found to result in improved service quality, increasing the
average of service days per month from 18 to 25 days, and increasing and the average service hours per
day from 10.9 to 12.7. On the basis of an analysis of a sample of FHIS water subprojects, at the
current level of operations and maintenance, these subprojects on average have an acceptable internal
rate of return, between 12 and 15 percent, although rates are highly sensitive to cost per beneficiary
levels and levels of operations and maintenance costs.
-41 -



*   FHIS latrines projects were found to increase communities' access to sanitary facilities to 100%,
versus 35% in non-FHIS communities. Households with FHIS latrines reported a 35% reduction in
incidence of diarrhea compared to households in communities without a FHIS latrine investment.
Moreover, FHIS-built latrines tended to be higher in quality, better maintained, and cleaner than
non-FHIS latrines.
*   In the sewerage sector, the evaluation identified a need to address low household connection rates in
FUHS-serviced communities, and to improve the targeting of sewerage investments.
The Impact Evaluation identified a number of issues to be addressed by FHIS in order to further improve
the program's impact, including the need to address important variations in results across subproject types
(and notably, a number of weaknesses identified in sewerage projects), and the need for further
improvements in: standardized project designs; contracting procedures; community participation and
training; and monitoring and evaluation systems. An action plan for addressing these issues has been
agreed upon with FHIS, and many improvements have already been made; these issues have been
reevaluated as part of the preparation and appraisal process for the proposed Fifth Social Investment Fund
project. Moving beyond FHIS, the study also suggested a need to complement FHIS's investments in
infrastructure and capacity-building with other investments to further enhance the quality of social services;
in this respect, the study's findings are serving to inform sectoral policy dialogue between IDA and the
Governient.
1/      This annex draws from: ESA Consultores, "Impact Evaluation of the Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS II,
1994-97)", May 1999; and from additional analysis of FHIS provided by Julia Van Domelen and Laura Rawlings. The annex
also draws from an ongoing Bank review of economic analysis in social funds, background papers for which include: Julia Van
Domelen, "Guidelines for Economic Analysis of Social Funds" (Internal Memorandum), March 24, 1998; William Jack, "The
Design and Appraisal of Social Investment Funds," February 1999, and Cecilia P. de Castillo and Raul Lema, "Economic
Analysis of Social Investment Fund Projects: Case Studies and Minimum Requirements Proposal", October 1998.
2/      As part of preparation for the proposed Fifth Social Investment Fund Project (and in conjunction with the
Bank-sponsored Social Funds 2000 Study), an in-depth comparison of the cost-effectiveness of FHIS vis-a-vis other social
investment vehicles (ministries, municipalities, NGOs) in Honduras is currently underway. Findings and recommendations of
this study will be incorporated into revisions to FHIS technical and economic appraisal criteria, if appropriate. In the
meantime, assessments of prevailing unit costs in the main areas of FHIS intervention are suggest that these are within reason
for country experience.
3/      To further improve the economic analysis of sub-projects, FHIS plans to introduce the following modifications in the
coming months: (a) refinement of the methodologies used to appraise water and sanitation projects, including application of
tariff calculation models commonly used for larger investments in Honduras; (b) updating of the cost-per-beneficiary
thresholds; (c) specification of consistent methodologies for calculating number of beneficiaries; and (d) integration of ex-ante
appraisal system with ex-post impact evaluation through better specification of expected benefits and collection of baseline
data.
-42 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
(US$ million)
Year 1     Year 2  1 Year 3  I Year 4  I Year 5       Year 6  | Year 7_
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           39.9       40.8       41.9       33.8        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             5.0        5.1        5.2        4.3        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          44.9       45.9       47.1       38.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              44.9       45.9       47.1       38.1        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  15.5        16.4       18.0       10.1       0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 7.2        7.3        7.4         6.2       0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             22.2       22.2       21.8        21.8       0.0        0.0        0.0
Local Governments          0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0
Others                     0.0        0.0         (.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     44.9       45.9       47.2       38.1        0.0       0.0        0.0
Y Year I     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year6
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4       2.4        2.4
Total Project Costs          2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4
Total Financing              2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Local Governments          1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2        1.2
Others                     1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2       1.2        1.2
Total Project Financing     2.4        2.4        2.4        2.4         2.4       2.4        2.4 j
Main assumptions:
Assumes average operation and maintenance costs of 2% per year for infrastructure subprojects. According to
experience and studies carried out under past phases of the FHIS program, these costs are almost always
borne by beneficiary communities and local governments. Since the proportion of projects requiring new staff
-43 -



is expected to be low, no incremental staff salaries are assumed for the purposes of this analysis. In any case,
as has been the case under previous phases of the FHIS program, for subprojects that do entail an increas in
Government expenditures on recurrent costs (i.e. incremental staff), prior endorsement of the subproject by
relevant line ministries would be required.
External co-financing amounts are based on initial indications from these financial agencies. However, since
all external co-financing amounts would be parallel rather than joint, no adverse effects on the IDA project
would result if any external co-financing amnounts were to differ from these expected amounts.
The cost estimates provided for subproject investments include only measurable financial costs incurred, and
therefore exclude certain cost items that are typically contributed by beneficiaries, and sometimes by local
governments and/or NGOs, prior to initiation of the works, such as: land; unskilled labor for site clearing;
certain materials; and certain prefeasibility studies. FHIS estimates that such contributions average between
10% and 20%, and in the case of water and sanitation subprojects, where NGOs often play a significant role
in preinvestment activities, can be as high as 30%. Under the SIF V project, FHIS would document such
contributions more consistently.
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Procurement
A) Procurement Arragements.
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with IDA's guidelines on
procurement of goods, works, and services, and using standard contract documents acceptable to IDA (
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January/August
1996 and September 1997, and January 1999; and Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999).
1) Procurement methods
Works: Due to the size and scattered locations of the civil works to be financed, no International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) is expected. National Competitive Bidding would be required for all contracts
above US$75,000. For small works subprojects (including ancillary technical services and corresponding
equipment, furniture, and materials), under the Subproject Financing, Local Institutional Strengthening,
Rural Water and Sanitation, and Nuestras Raices components, contracts costing less than US$75,000, up
to an aggregate amount of US$36.9 million, may be awarded on the basis of at least three price quotations
obtained from qualified domestic contractors selected from FHIS's roster of small contractors.
Direct contracting would be permitted for small works contracts valued at less than $50,000 in areas where
competitive proposals cannot be obtained. Cases expected to require direct contracting would be identified
on an indicative basis in the context of semi-annual procurement plans. Such contracting would be carried
out with the participation of municipalities and communities. To ensure fair pricing, FHIS would use, as a
basis of negotiations with contractors, a well-tried system of regional, standard unit prices, which is based
on market prices and updated periodically. Contractors would be selected on the basis of qualification and
certification procedures, acceptable to IDA, which give opportunities to small contractors based on their
experience and qualifications, and without the requirement of formal titles or membership in professional or
trade associations.
Community Participation in Procurement. Under the project, FIRS contemplates the possibility of
fostering greater participation by communities and/or local govenmients in procurement actions through
decentralization of certain functions and responsibilities, and granting of resources to carry out such
functions and responsibilities, to these agents--particularly under the Rural Water and Sanitation and
Nuestras Raices components. A decision to move forward with such an arrangement, as well as the details
regarding application of such decentralized procurement procedures, would be determined during project
implementation, and would be subject to prior agreement with IDA. In the meantime, FHIS will manage all
procurement actions. In any case, any procurement of works, goods, and services that might eventually be
carried out under the project by communities and/or local governments would employ procedures,
specifications, and contract packaging acceptable to IDA, in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Goods: Includes approximately US$0. 15 million for office equipment and computers (for communities and
local governments) under the Local Institutional Strengthening component, as well as US$0.20 million for
vehicles, office equipment and computers for FHIS. All contracts are expected to be valued under
US$50,000, and would be procured using International Shopping methods (vehicles, computer equipment,
and major office equipment), and National Shopping (other goods contracts).
- 45-



Services: Includes: (i) works design, supervision services, and subprojects for capacity building and
training in operations and maintenance (US$ 11.3 million), to be awarded to individual consultants, or to
firmns using Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ); (ii) TA and training for FHIS and its
partners to strengthen and evaluate policies, practices, and operations, particularly in the context of the
pilot programs (US$1.9 million), to be awarded to individual consultants, or to fimns using CQ; (iv)
capacity building subprojects under the Social Assistance Innovations Fund component (US$5.0 million),
to be awarded using Quality-Based Selection (QBS); (iv) larger-scale / longer-term TA services for
institutional strengthening and/or evaluation studies under the Subproject Financing, Rural Water and
Sanitation, and Nuestras Raices components (US$2.6 million), to be awarded using Quality and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS); and (v) external auditing services (US$0.3 million), to be awarded using
least-cost selection.
2) Bank Review (see Table B).
The thresholds for prior review are as follows: Works: For contracts above US$75,000 or more, IDA will
review the frst two each year, and all contracts above US$150,000 (NCB). Goods: IDA will review all
contracts above US$50,000 (ICB and NCB), and all contracts above US$50,000 (NCB). Services
provided by finns: IDA will review all single-source selections and all contracts above US$50,000. All
services provided by individuals above US$25,000 will be also reviewed by IDA.
FHIS would identify cases where Direct Contracting is expected valued at less than US$50,000 in the
context of semi-annual procurement plans reviewed by IDA.
Because FHIS subprojects are identified on a demand-driven basis throughout the life of the project, prior
review of all subprojects is not practical. However, FHIS has satisfactory audit arrangemnents for the
project, which include quarterly and annual auditing by a qualified external firm, including physical audits
of subprojects, and verification that procurement guidelines are being respected. Periodic physical
performance evaluations of subprojects and IDA supervision missions would also look at procurement
issues. In addition, every six (6) months, special procurement supervision will conduct the
post-review/audit of approximately 5% of contracts, including field visits.
B) FHIS Procurement Capacity Assessment
FHIS would manage or supervise all procurement actions under the project, based on agreed procurement
procedures reflected in its Operations Manual, complementary guidelines, and the Project Implementation
Plan. An institutional assessment carried out recently by IDA confirmed that FHIS's capacity and
experience in procurement in accordance with IDA guidelines is sufficient for project execution. The
assessment, however, identified several areas requiring further strengthening, including: (i) need for
additional staff and support resources (including physical space) in the contracts department; (ii) subproject
programming and procurement planning; (iii) subproject preparation practices (including field visits and
desk review) to minimize contract variations during execution; (iv) standard bidding documents; (v)
qualification and certification procedures for small contractors; (vi) bid evaluation procedures; and (vii)
contract (subproject) supervision practices. FHIS has already taken steps to address a number of the issues
identified (such as hiring additional qualified staff and streamlining procedures), and has agreed with IDA
on the hiring of a consultant, to be funded under a PHRD grant for project preparation, to carry out a
thorough review of FHIS's procurement and contract management practices and organizational structure.
The recommendations of the consultant will be the basis of a procurement action plan, which will be agreed
upon before effectiveness and made part of the Operations Manual, complementary guidelines, and PIP.
-46 -



The procurement risk under the project is considered average, a rating which reflects the areas identified for
improvement, but also FHIS's experience under past projects and its commitment to improve procedures
further prior to effectiveness; FHIS's procurement policies and practices will be monitored closely during
project implementation to ensure that risks are adequately mitigated throughout project implementation.
In addition, direct contracting procedures, certification procedures, and unit pricing methodology are
expected to be reviewed thoroughly in the context of the consultancy on procurement expected to start in
November. These procedures and methodology, improved as necessary in accordance with the
above-mentioned review, will be reflected in the FHIS Operational Manual, complementary Guidelines and
PIP, satisfactory to IDA.
Finally, procedures involving greater degrees of community participation in procurement are currently
being developed by FHIS for application in the contracting of small works projects--particularly under the
Rural Water and Sanitation and Nuestras Raices components. Subject to IDA's approval of such
procedures, these would be expected to be permitted for contracts under US$50,000.
C) Procurement Plan.
Each semester, FHIS would submit a plan for procurement and technical assistance activities. Technical
assistance activities would include planned consulting services, training, workshops, and study tours, and
would include draft terms of reference, estimated budgets, and expected recruiting/contracting procedures
to be followed.
Financial Manaaement
Financial Management Assessment. In accordance with IDA's policy OP/BP 10.02, the LCR Financial
Management Unit (LCOAA) reviewed FHIS' financial management system relating to the project. The
review focused on the assessment of the internal control, planning, budgeting, accounting and financial
reporting system, and audit arrangements. Details can be found in the Financial Management Assessment
Report dated November 1, 2000.
It was concluded that FHIS has in place a project financial management system that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely financial information via Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Even so, certain actions for improvement were identified, specifically: (i) updating of operational and
administrative manuals; (ii) definitive selection of monitoring indicators to be included in the PMRs; (iii)
implementation of the MIS action plan; (iv) development of procedures to ensure use of PMRs as
management tools; (v) segregating the responsibilities for the Supervision Department from those of the
Contracts Department; (vi) enhancing follow-up procedures on internal audit reports; and (vii) providing
for an independent, documented, and timely processing of community allegations.
Audit arrangements. Project accounts will be audited annually by independent chartered auditors
acceptable to IDA, under terms of reference to be approved by IDA. Certified copies of the audit reports
would be furnished to IDA no later than April 30 of the year following the reported period, with updates
based on interim auditing activities provided quarterly throughout the year.
Audit reports would include the results of operational audits including review of subprojects both in
execution and completed, covering both their processing and implementation. Auditors would review
individual contracts, ascertain compliance with the terms of contracts, inspect progress of works and
reconcile the physical progress with financial expenses incurred, and verify that procurement and financial
guidelines referred to in the credit agreement are being followed.
- 47 -



Disbursements
Allocation of credit proceeds (see Table C). The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over a period
of about four years, to be completed by December 31, 2004. The credit closing date would be June 30,
2005 (i.e., six months after project completion date). Disbursements would be in accordance with
guidelines set out in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook and LACI Implementation Handbook.
Disbursements would be made against the categories of expenditure presented in Table C below.
Retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million would be permitted for eligible expenditures under the
project incurred as of July 1, 2000, or within 12 months of the date of signing of the Credit Agreement,
whichever is later.
Project Management Reports (PMRs). Credit disbursements would be based on quarterly PMRs to be
submitted 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter. In accordance with fornats agreed with IDA,
each PMR should comprise at least:
(i) a financial section that: (a) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the project, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for
the project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (b) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period
following the period covered by said report;
(ii) an output monitoring section that: (a) describes physical progress in project implementation, both
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (b) explains variances between the actual and
previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) a procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
-48 -



"Traditionar' disbursement procedures (e.g., reimbursements, direct payments, full documentation, SOEs)
would be used only as deemed necessary by IDA.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, credit proceeds would be deposited in a Special
Account to be opened in US Dollars at the Central Bank. FHIS would have direct access to the Special
Account, but funds may be channeled through a bank account of the Ministry of Finance for onward
deposit to FHIS' Special Account.
Each application for disbursement shall be supported by a PMR. Upon receipt of each application, IDA
would deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and
(b) the amount which IDA has deternined, based on the PMR, is required to be deposited in order to
finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period following the date of the PMR; provided,
however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining
in the Special Account, shall not exceed an amount equal to US$12,000,000.
The Special Account is only to be used for eligible expenditures under the credit (under no circumstances
may funds in the Special Account be used to cover the share of expenditures corresponding to the
counterpart and/or other financiers). Transfers from the Special Account to other bank accounts will only
be performed to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of less han 30 days.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                          0.00          4.60          36.91         77.12        118.63
(0.00)        (4.28)       (34.33)        (0.00)       (38.61)
2. Goods                          0.00          0.00          0.35          0.00          0.35
(0.00)         0.00)        (0.35)        (0.00)        (0.35)
3. Services                       0.00          0.00          21.04         16.50        37.54
(0.00)        (0.00)       (21.04)        (0.00)       (21.04)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00          0.00          0.00          19.51         19.51
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                          0.00          4.60          58.30         113.13       176.03
(0.00)        (4.28)       (55.72)        (0.00)       (60.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
D Explanations of amounts in "other" category are detailed in section A. 1 (Procurement Methods) above.
Non Bank-financed activities include: works, capacity-building subprojects, and related services financed by
various other donors and FHIS operating costs, financed by GOH. Experience under previous projects with FHIS
have shown that co-financing agencies' procurement procedures are generally consistent with IDA procedures, and
would present no incompatibilities.
-49 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                        >75                     NCB            First two each year, and all
>150
<75               3 Price Quotations           None
<50              Direct Contracting /          None*
Community-Based
Procurement
2. Goods
All                             >150                     ICB                     All
All                             <150                    NCB                      All
equipment andother              <50              International Shopping         None
major office equipment
Other Goods                     <50                National Shopping            None
3. ServicesFirms           According to IDA        QCBS, QBS, CQ,      All single-source selections
Guidelines        Single-Source Selection       and all >50
4. Services Individuals    According to IDA      Individual Consultants         All >25
Guidelines
5. Training / Study             N.A.                    N.A.           TORs for all IDA-financed
Tours
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: (Cannot be estimated
due to demand-driven
nature of program.)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
*FHIS would identify cases where Direct Contracting is expected in the context of semi-annual
procurement plans.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 50 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
1. Subprojects (Works and goods).          38.61                         93%
Integrated small social and economic
infrastructure projects, including
corresponding equipment, furniture,
materials and technical services.
2. Goods                                    0.35           100% of foreign expenditures; 89% of
local expenditures
3. Consultants' Services and Training,
including workshops, learning
materials, and study tours, as follows:
(a) Works design, supervision, and          7.23                         100%
subprojects for capacity building under
the Subproject Financing Component
and the Local Institutional
Strengthening and Rural Water and
Sanitation Pilot Programs
(b) Under the Social Assistance            6.00                          100%
Innovations Fund component
(c) Under the Nuestras Raices (Our         4.06                          100%
Roots) component
(d) Under other parts of the project        3.75                         100%
Total Project Costs                        60.00
Total                                      60.00
-51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Time taken to pr_pare the proJect (months)                                    12
First Bank mission (identification)              11/01/99                     11/01/99
Appraisal mission departure                      11/13/2000                   11/13/2000
Negotiations                                     11/13/2000                   11/13/2000
iPlanned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2000
Prepared by:
Honduran Social Investment Fund (FHIS)
Preparation assistance:
Trust Funds: PHRD (TF025978); TF039561; TF039299
Cofinancing Agencies: IDB, KfW, SIDA.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
David Warren                      Social Protection (Task Manager)
Patricia Oma                      Program Assistant
Helena Ribe                       Sector Leader
Ana-Maria Arriagada               Sector Manager
Karla McEvoy                      Operations Analyst
Laura Rawlings                    Monitoring and Evaluation
Caroline Cederlof                 Economist
Philippe Dongier                  Water and Sanitation
Francois Munger                   Water and Sanitation
Jaime RomAn                       Procurement
Michael Fowler                    Disbursement
Daniel Boyce                      Financial Management
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management
Rajeev Swami                      Financial Management
Steve Maber                       Water and Sanitation
Eduardo Brito                     Project Counsel
Maria Lucy Giraldo                Procurement
Lourdes Noel                      Procurement
Iris Medina                       Assistant, Honduras Liaison Office
- 52 -



CONSULTANTS
Martin Ochoa                      Environment, Preparation Coordinator (Consultant)
Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet           Local Institutional Strengthening (Consultant)
Ximena Traa-Valarezo             Indigenous Peoples / Social Assessment (Consultant)
Mario Zelaya                      Engineer, Procurement (Consultant)
Ian Walker                        Monitoring and Evaluation (Consultant)
Melinda Wells                     Social Assistance (Consultant)
Kelly Bunkers                     Social Assistance (Consultant)
Dagoberto Rivera                  Local Institutional Strengthening (Consultant)
Maria de los Angeles Ponce        Management Information Systems (Consultant)
Rudolf Kral                       Local Institutional Strengthening (Consultant)
Marcelo Osorio                    Procurement (Consultant)
REVIEWERS / ADVISORS
Lynne Sherburne-Benz              Peer Reviewer/Economist (Social Protection)
Meena Munshi                      Peer Reviewer/Economist (Rural Development)
Dana Wiest                        Peer Reviewer/Public Sector (Decentralization)
Lee Travers                       Peer Reviewer/Water and Sanitation
Michael Goldberg                  Private Sector Development (Micro-Finance)
Abel Mejia                        Water and Sanitation
Menahem Libhaber                  Water and Sanitation
- 53 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
FHIS: Plan de Implementaci6n (draft), November 2000
FHIS: Guia para el Manual Operativo (draft), November 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Cederlof, Caroline: Back-to-Office Report on Social Assistance Component for FHIS VY May 16, 2000.
Cederlof, Caroline: Informe Final, Taller Participativo con los Beneficiarios, May 10 2000.
Serrano, Rodrigo: Aide-Memoire jointly with WB/IDB/KfW, March 9-17, 2000.
Serrano, Rodrigo: Notas Tecnicas, Misi6n de Evaluaci6n del FHIS, Fortalecimiento Institucional Local,
June 26-30, 2000.
Kral, Rolf: Manual FHIS Planificaci6n Participativa, June, 2000.
PADCO: Indicadores, Categorizaci6n Municipal y Delegacion del Ciclo de Proyectos FHIS,
October 2000 (Drafl included).
Serrano, Rodrigo: Manual Operativo de la Delegaci6n del Ciclo de Proyectos (draft), November 2000
Mejia, Jose Bohanerges: Transferencia de Funciones y Responsabilidades a las Municipalidades,
February 1998.
Nufio de Figueroa, Cristiana: Esquema de Mantenimiento preventivo de Centros Educacionales, Centros
de Salud Rural, y Sistemas de Agua y Alcantarillado Sanitatio, February 1998.
Rivera, Dagoberto: Mantenimiento Preventivo en las obras del FHIS: Lineamientos para el Desarrollo
de una Etapa Piloto, September 2000.
Ochoa, Martin: Project Environmental Assessment Report, October 2000.
FHIS: Manual de Evaluaci6n Ambiental de Proyectos FHIS, August 1995.
FHIS: Manual borradorpara el diseno de medidas de mitigacion ambientalpara estabilizaci6n de
taludes, July 2000.
Congreso Nacional, Propuesta de Ley Marco del Sector Agua Potable y Alcantarillado de Honduras, July
2000.
Traa-Valarezo, Ximena. NUESTRASRAICESPROGRAMIV. Social and Institutional Analysis.
October, 2000.
World Bank, LCOAA, Financial Management Assessment Report. November 1 st., 2000.
Zelaya, Mario, "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project - Procurement", November 2000.
Ponce, M.P, MIS review aide-memoire and BTO, july 8,2000.
Dongier, P and Munger, F, Water and Sanitation component, supervision mission to FHIS, July 17, 2000.
Project History Documents:
Back-to-Office Report: Proposed Fifth Social Investment Fund Project (FHIS V), May 25, 1999.
Ayuda Memoria: Honduras FHIS V, Nuevo Proyecto Propuesto, June 7-11, 1999.
Ayuda Memoria: Inicio de una nueva operaci6n FHIS 2000-2002, BID, Washington D.C., June 11, 1999.
Back-to-Office Report: Supervision Mission FHIS III, FHIS IV and Proposed FHIS V, July 11-14, 1999.
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n conjunta de Seguimiento al FHIS
Agencia Sueca de Cooperaci6n Intemacional para el Desarrollo, ASDI
Banco Aleman para la Reconstrucci6n, KfW; Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo, BID
Banco Mundial, BM
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Pre-Evaluaci6n, Honduras: Quinto Proyecto de Inversi6n Social (FHIS V),
- 54 -



November 1-7, 1999.
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Revisi6n, Banco Mundial, Washington, 21 al 23 de febrero del 2000.
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Preparaci6n Programa Nuestras Raices IV, 11 al 18 de mayo del 2000.
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Pre-evaluaci6n de una nueva operaci6n con el Fondo Hondureiio de Inversi6n
Social, Honduras, July 3-8, 2000
Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Pre-evaluaci6n Programa Nuestras Raices IV, 15 al 22 de agosto del 2000.
Memorandum and Recomendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Supplemental Credit to the Republic of Honduras for the Fourth
Social Investment Fund Project, Word Bank Report No. P-3750-HO, Washington D.C., December 3,
1999.
C. Other
ESA CONSULTORES: Informe Final, Evaluaci6n Ex-Post del Fondo Hondureuio de Inversi6n Social
(FHIS 2)Julio 1999.
Parker, Andrew and Rodrigo Serrano, 2000: Promoting Good Local Governance Through Social Fund
and Decentralization. Social Protection Discussion Paper No. 022, Washington DC: The World
Bank.
Trentmann, Claudia, Leonardo Romeo and Osmar Velasco, 2000: Mision de Evaluacion Conjunta del
Proceso de Microplanificacion Participativa. FISE-PROTIERRA/INIFOM. Informe Final. Banco
Mundial, KfW.
(Enero 15).
FISE Nicaragua (2000a). Summary of the Progress, Principal Limitations and Challenges of the
Community and Municipal Strengthening Program. May.
FISE Nicaragua (1999). Presentation for the II International Social Funds Conference, "Manual
Operativo del Sistema Descentralizado de Gesti6n y Manejo de Proyectos", Washington DC, 1999.
Including electronic files
- 55 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
15-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions       disbursements
Project ID   FY   Borrower                    Purpose                                   IBRD     IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig  Frm Revd
P007396      1995 Honduras                ENVIRON. DEVELOPMENT                            0.00     10.80      0.00      1.1B      1.73      1.73
P060785      2001 Honduras                HN ECONOMIC & FIN.MANAGEMENT PROJECT            0.00     19.00      0.00     18.56      0.00      0.00
P007399      1995 HoFnduras               HNBASIC EDUCATION                               0.00     30.00      0.00      5.40      7.90      0.00
P048651      1999 Honduras                HN/FHIS IV                                      0.00     67.50      0.00     23.78    -17.70      0.00
P007392      1993 Honduras                HN/NUTRITIONIHEALTH                             0.00     35.40      0.00      2.97     -7.91      2.66
P057350      1999 Horduras                PROFUTURO                                       0.00      6.30      0.00      6.42      0.77      0.00
P007387      1996 Honduras                PUB SEC MOD SAC                                 0.00    115.70      0.00     26.68      1.13     36.63
P007398      1997 Honduras                RURAL LAND MGMT                                 0.00     34.00      0.00     15.64      9.53      9.50
P007388      1993 Horduras                TRNSPRTSCTR RHO                                 0.00     85.00      0.00      8.63    -11.75      6.39
Total:       0.00    405.70        0.00     109.26    -16.30    59.11
HONDURAS
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
15-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                                Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval             Company                                Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic          Loan   Equity       Quasi    Partic
1998                    Camino Real Plaz                      10.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      8.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1995/98                 Elcosa                                 0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
1986/99                 Granjas Marinas                        6.00      0.00       0.00       0.00      6.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               16.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      14.00       0.00       0.00       0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                                   Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic
2000                    Agropalma                              7000.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
1999                   Celtel Honduras                        5000.00    5000.00           0.00   15000.00
Total Pending Commitment:             12000.00    5000.00          0.00   15000.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
HONDURAS: FIFTH SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Latin   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Americs   middle-
Hondturas   & Culb.  Income         Development diamond'
o999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         6 3       509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      760      3,840     1.200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        4.8      1 955     2.513
Average annual growth. 1993.99
Population (%)                                          2.8        1.6       1.1           
Labor force (X)                                         3.8        2.5       1.2      GNP                              Gross
per                             prirmary
Mlost recent estimate (atet year Avaable, 119*399)                                    capita                       enrollment
Poverty (16 of population below national poveoty Ane)    53
Urban population (% of total population)                 52         75        43
Llfe expectancy at birth (years)                         69         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 36         31        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               25          8        15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of populvtion)        65         75        86
Illiteracy (1 of population age 154)                     20         12        18
Gross primary enrollment (5 ofschoo01-9gepoptilatin)    111        113       114            Honduras
Mate                                                  110                  114        ...   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                112                  116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LON1G-TERM TRENDS
1979     19S9       1998      1999
Economic ratlo'
GDP (US$ billions)                             2.3      5.2        5.2       5.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 26.8     19,1       30.8      32.9
Exports of goods and services/GDP             36.6     29,0       47.2      42.9                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    22.0     13.7       24.6      19.1
Gross national savings/GDP                    18.0      9.9       25.3      22.9
Current account balaneclGDP                   -8.8     .7.9       -5.5      -10 0     D
Interest paymentslGDP                          2.7      0.9        3.5       3.2      Domestic                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                52.6     65,5       95.3      99.4      Savings
Total debt servbce/exports                    20.5     12.6       18.2      13.4
Present value of debttGDP                                         614
Preseet value of debt/exports                                    116.2
Indebtedness
1979-49  1589-99     1W9S       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.4       3.2      2,9       -I9        5.3               Honduras
GNP per capita                      -0.7       0.8      0.4       -3,9       2.8          -     Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        0.5       1.5      0.3       -9.4       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (X)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                   25.6     21.1       19.2      16.2     30
Industry                                      24.4     24.7       30.4      31.9      20
Manufacturing                               15.1      15.0      18.6       19.6     10
Services                                      50.0     54.2       50.4      51.9       o 
Private consumption                           67.0     72.0       65.3      69.4    .so            l           9 57   98   99
General government consumption                10.9     14.3       10.1      11.4               -     GDI      -    GDP
Imports of goods and services                 41.4     34.4       53.3      56.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of expons and Imports 1%)
(average annual growmth)
Agriculture                                    2.4      2.4       -2.9      -8.7    is
Industry                                       2.9      3.5        4.2       4.0    10
Manufacturing                                3.0       3.8       3.4        2.6
Services                                       2.3      3.5        5.6      -0.2
Private consumption                            2.8      3.0        3.4       0.8      -      sa    Ds    Ds
General government consumption                 3.9     -0.6       21.7      10.9
Gross domestic investment                      0.0      8.0        2.8       4.7    10
Imports of goods and services                  0.1      3.6        5.9       6.7                   ExpDrts     *Imporns
Gross national product                         2.5      3.7        3.3      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



Honduras
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domesuc pdic.s                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                                       99        137      116      30
Implicit GDP deflator                       115       71        110      11.1    20
Government flnance                                                                104
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                                                 18.8     19.4            94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                                           4.1      2.8            -     GDP defltor  e- CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -1.7     -4 4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   903      1,657    1,304      00o
Bananas                                             352       176        38
Coffee                                              191       430       256
Manufactures                                                                     000
Total imports (cif)                                 1,045     2,445     2,718
Food                                                172       364       397     soo
Fuel and energy                                     146       214       256
Capital goods                                       220       615       724        o
93  94  99  9S  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       98        94       90
Import price index (1995=100)                          76        93       91                 U Exports    * Impons
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..    129         102       99
B3ALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                838    1,061     2,476     2,312
Imports of goods and services                930    1,273     2,797    3,055
Resource balance                             -92    -213       -322      -743      4*
Net income                                  -120    -240       -209      -160
Net current transfers                         14       43       241      365      -   *    *
Current account belance                     -198    -410       -290      -538     12
Financing items (net)                        218      364       458      880
Changes in net reserves                      -20       45      -168      -342    -1,
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                 28       770    1,209
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)             2.0      2.0       13.4     14.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1.184    3,386     5,002    5,356
IBRD                                       132     528        235      185                 G: 482  A:135
IDA                                         47       79       579      841                                 B:41
Total debtservice                            179      142       505       367          F: 415
IBRD                                        14        1        68       65
IDA                                          1        0         6        7                                     C: 210
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             21       71       163      210
Official creditors                          86       86        19       158       E 1,486
Prvate creditors                            63       43       109       -35
Foreign direct investment                   28       51        84      222                         D    : 1737
Portfolio equity                             0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 35        0        59       61      A - IBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               32        2        64      273      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Pivate
Principal repayments                         4        0        50       49      C -IM                      G - Shot-term
Netflows                                    29        2        14      224
Interest payments                           11        1        24       22
Net transfers                               17        1       -10      202
Development Economics                                                                                               9/9100
- 58 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Nuestras Raices (Our Roots)
Social and Institutional Analysis
The preparation of the fourth phase of the Nuestras Raices (Our Roots) program (NR IV) was a joint effort
of the GOH, the ten autochthonous federations, which represent over 800,000 autochthonous people, and
IDA. (The ten federations are: Consejo Civico de Organizaciones Populares Indigenas de Honduras
(COPINH), Organizaci6n Fraternal Negra Hondurefia (OFRANEH), Native Bay Islanders (NABIPLA),
Organizaci6n Nacional Indigena Lenca de Honduras (ONILH), Consejo Nacional Indigena Maya Chortis
de Honduras (CONIMCHH), Federacion de Tribus Indigenas Pech de Honduras (FETRIPH), Federaci6n
Indigena Tawahka de Honduras (FITH), Moskitia Asia Takanka (MASTA), Federaci6n Indigena Nahuas
de Honduras (FINAH), Federaci6n de Tribus Xicaques de Yoro (FETRIXY).) Quarterly workshops were
held throughout preparation to discuss the main elements of the program, mode of delivery and monitoring
mechanisms to continue to improve the socio-economic impact of the program, and the administrative
transparency. Similar workshops will continue to be held throughout the life of the project to ensure
adequate monitoring and evaluation of this program.
A Social and Institutional Analysis carried out between May and October, 2000 highlights the main
achievements of NR I, II and III, and capitalizes on lessons leamed from implementation of those
programs, for an efficient implementation of NR IV.
Justification for the Program. Social development of autochthonous peoples in Honduras requires seed
capital for the implementation of small-scale projects which respond to the needs of communities. Limited
access to fimancial resources affects all communities suffering from extreme poverty. Proposals geared to
respond to needs of autochthonous groups are rarely included in the Municipal Social Investment Plans.
Nuestras Raices offers communities the possibility to prioritize and implement small-scale projects, receive
a cash payment for the implementation, receive training for the efficient allocation of the money in small
community banks and/or a productive activity.Thus, Nuestras Raices contributes to solve both problems:
lack of financial resources, and implementation of small community projects which promote social capital.
SECTION I: MAIN SOCIAL, POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC ACHIEVEMENTS
OF NR III
>  NR IlI brought hope and a direct economic benefit to newly organized community groups in the midst
of despair and unrest caused by hurricane Mitch, particularly among the extremely poor autochthonous
people. Over 100,000 heads of households, organized in small groups of about 30 members per group,
participated in the implementation of over 3,000 small-scale projects. Payments to participants
amnounted to close to L60 million (UJS$4.7 million), part of which was invested by the groups in
development projects and small community banks in 16 out of the 18 departments. Total payment to
each group was L15,000 (US$1,190). Investments were made by each group or by joint ventures of
several groups. Some small-scale project investments include crop production for comercialization,
manufacturing of musical instruments, manufacturing of casaba (yuca). Larger-scale projects include
the creation of a transportation cooperative in Intibuca, and ranching activities.
>  For the first time in the history of Honduras a government program was targeted to and co-managed by
all the ethnic groups of the country with accountability and equity. The previously excluded lencas of
COPINH, the English-speaking creoles (NABIPLA), the Xicaques (FETRIXY) were included in NR
- 59 -



III. Moreover, a new group, the Nahuas (Mesoamerican Nahuatl descent) made their appearance and
formed the FINAH federation. Federations were trained in program administration and management of
community banks.
>  About 45% of direct beneficiaries were female heads of households. An institutionalized gender
strategy ensured that women were trained in administration of community banks, as well as in the
implementation of small-scale community projects.
> An open menu of small-scale projects prioritized by beneficiaries was offered as an alternative to the
previous road opening and rehabilitation program (NR I and II). Some micro-projects irnplemented
include opening and rehabilitation of roads and navigation canals, hanging bridges, small docks and
peers, landing strips for small aircraft, and small rehabilitation works of schools and health posts.
Lessons learned from NR HII
>  The conceptual and organizational framework of the program is appropriate. Lack of seed capital
continues to be one of the biggest problems among the indigenous. The institutional arrangements may
be improved by providing institutional strengthening to the federations.
>  The emergency situations created by hurricane Mitch dislocated the training plan (to Coordinators) for
the creation/administration of community banks (cajas rurales) before the execution of micro-projects
would take place. Consequendy, the number of community banks opened was smaller than expected.
However, direct investments in micro-enterprises may be larger.
>  Joint efforts of several groups working on one project (rather than one project per group) may be
needed in order to implement larger and more sustainable projects. Also, there is a need to promote
small-scale integrated projects which improve social capital, health and sanitation, education and
intercultural bilingual values, arts and crafts, micro-enterprises, community-based tourism among
otiers.
> The monitoring and evaluation mechanisms need to be improved, to respond to a rapidly growing
program with an open menu. Such mechanisms should involve FHIS, federations, and external parties.
SECTION II: NUESTRAS RAICES IV
1. Program Objectives
a)    The main objective of Nuestras Raices IV is to improve the living conditions of the autochthonous
peoples of Honduras and promote social capital in indigenous and Afro-Honduran communuities by
fnancing small-scale subprojects (identified by the communities and selected according to eligibility
criteria established by FHIS and the indigenous peoples' federations) using paid labor of community
members. After the completion of the subproject, the community members may invest the wages earned in
a follow-up subproject, which is typically a small-scale infrastructure project or the establishment of a
small community bank. Such community banks finance agricultural and commercial income-generating
activities initiated and identified by the participating members of the community banks themselves.
b)    The second objective is to strengthen the institutional and financial capacities of the communities,
ethnic coordinators, and the federations (which represent them) to organize, administer, manage and
monitor small-scale projects which improve their ability to preserve their cultural values, heritage and
- 60 -



cosmovision. The program will also seek to support development of autochthonous peoples in coordination
with local and national governments, and intemational organizations.
2. Program Components
Consistent with its objectives, the Program has two components: (i) Cash Transfer to autochthonous
peoples as payment for implementation of small-scale community projects; and (ii) Institutional
strengthening of main stakeholders: communities, coordinators, FIUS and ethnic liaisons, and ethnic
federations. The Program will seek to improve stakeholders' abilities to promote community organizations,
manage and maintain small-scale projects. Based on past experience, some community groups will
establish small community banks, based in part on payments received for labor provided during
implementation of subprojects.
3. Operational Framework
As with the previous phases of the program, Nuestras Raices IV is structured and implemented in
compliance with ILO Agreement 169 ratified in Honduras in 1995 (Decree 26-94 on Indigenous Peoples
and Tribal Groups, 1989), Article 364 of the Constitution of the Republic of Honduras, and Operational
Directive 4.20 of the World Bank.
4. Gender Strategy
Within the same lines of the previous phase of the program, men and women are encouraged to participate
equally as beneficiaries of the program, as decision-makers, as program trainees and initiators and
managers of small community subprojects, and small community banks. As a ground rule, an equal number
of men and women is expected to participate in all the events, training, meetings, etc. related to Nuestras
Raices. The gender strategy is emphasized in all the training activities, from the organizational workshops
with FHIS-IDA (every quarter) to the group training under the group coordinators. As part of community
training, communities are encouraged to make arrangements (i.e. child care, food preparation) to allow
women to participate in all the activities. Each ethnic group is encouraged to protect cultural traditions
which enhance the role of women in their society. Gender specific activities vary from group to group
(wood carving, pottery, baked foods, tending of small and large stock). Construction of small infrastructure
(masonry, roofing, carpentry), vessels, etc. may also be culture and gender-bound.
5. Needs Assessment
A needs assessment conducted by FHIS in May, 2000 for project preparation indicated:
* The need of financial resources to solve basic needs is at the top of the list.
>  The participation of indigenous groups in the Municipal Social Investment Planning process is limited.
>  Need for institutional strengthening of the Federations on administration of small-scale projects was
noted.
> Most urgent needs of the communities reflect lack of financial resources mostly due to unemployment.
It was recommended that FHIS hire local labor for regular FHIS projects.
>  Since the Municipal Social Investment Planning does not have a special mechanism to include requests
of minorities including the indigenous, federations claim their needs are not prioritized in Municipal
plans. They request FHIS to respond to their needs of major social infrastructure (schools, health
centers, water and sanitation, roads, etc.) outside NR.
>  A need for integrated sustainable projects (craft manufacturing, staple crop production and
- 61 -



commercialization, including community training was identified.
> A need for rehabilitation and improvement of housing (roof, floor) was also identified.
6. Targeting
According to the Poverty Map 2000, most indigenous peoples in Honduras are in municipalities marked
with "very bad, bad or deficient" poverty levels. As in NR III, selection of beneficiary groups of 30
individuals (one per family) is done by the autochthonous federations, and group management is done by
the ethnic liaison. Small-scale project identification and prioritization is carried out by the beneficiary
groups according to established eligibility and selection criteria. Micro-project formulation is the
responsibility of FHIS liaisons together with the ethnic liaisons and group coordinators.
7. Institutional Arrangements for NR IV
The ethnic federations and communities continue to be the most important players in this Program.
Institutional arrangements were discussed at the Intibuca and Bay Islands Workshops. Two of the
institutional strengths of the Program are (i) FHIS's partnership with the Ten Federations, and (ii) a
program administration monitoring system based on tight social controls (auditoria social) which has
proven to be the most efficient control tool in this program. The decision to work with the ten federations
rather than with the umbrella organization CONPAH stems from the fact that CONPAH has been
fragmented since 1996 and only three federations are represented in it in the year 2000.
Institutional Arrangements for Nuestras Raices IV
FHIS Minister
FHIS NUESTRAS RAICES Project Inplementation Unit
(Institutional Strengthening Component)
Lenca   Lenca  Garifuna  Misquito  Tolupan   Pech       Chorti    Creole  Tawahka Nahua
ONILH COPIN OFRANEH MASTA FETRIXY FETRIPH CONICCH NABIPLA FITH FINAH
F-E     F-E      F-E        F-E        F-E      F-E       F-E      F-E     F-E      F-E
CC CCCC CCCCCCC C CCC CCCC CCC CCC C C C
GG G GG G GG G G G G G G GGG GGG G G GGG GGG G G G
F-E = FHIS-ethnic liaison team
C= ethnic coordinators
G= organized community groups
a)     Central level. The FHIS Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the Federations. The PIU is
formed by a small team which includes a Coordinator, and three professionals in charge of Planning,
Training, and Information Systems. Three supervisors would participate in the planning and
implementation of the operation. This team would respond directly to the Minister of FHIS, and would
work in unison with the federations.
- 62 -



b)     Ten Autochthonous Federations. Each federation is legally headed by a Board of Directors (seven
people) elected by the population it represents. Federations are registered at the Ministerio de Gobernaci6n
y Justicia and have legal personality. Most federations have representation at the central, regional and local
levels.
c)    Local level. The FHIS-Ethnic Liaisons. These teams are conformed by one FHIS and one ethnic
liaison. Both are hired by FHIS, but the ethnic liaison is selected by the participating ethnic
community/federation. Both individuals are trained by FHIS in the technical aspects of the program. Their
common responsibilities include group training, and also organization and supervision of micro-project
execution. Particular responsibilities of FHIS liaisons include formulation of micro-project profiles, and
report presentation to FHIS. Ethnic liaisons are particularly responsible for group organization, and
training of FHIS liaisons in cultural aspects relevant to the operation. Ethnic liaisons respond to the
Federations. A FHIS-ethnic liaison teamn may be responsible for 10-12 groups of thirty beneficiaries each.
d)    Beneficiary Group Coordinators. These individuals are part of the beneficiary group. They are
selected by the group as coordinators. He/she is accountable for managing the group, and ensuring there is
an equal workload and benefits for all its members. Coordinators will also be responsible for ensuring
proper group training for micro-project implementation as well as training on the subject of community
banks. They are accountable to FIlS-ethnic liaisons teams for the success of the project in their groups.
Coordinators respond to their communities.
8. Coordination of Federations and Municipal Governments for the successful implementation of
Nuestras Raices IV and the Municipal Social Investment Plans
The relationship between ethnic federations and municipalities has always been weak mainly because
municipal government seats have traditionally been occupied by non-ethnic individuals. Upon request of the
federations, Nuestras Raices HI did not include municipal mayors among the institutional stakeholders.
Some administrative irregularities of Nuestras Raices I and II discouraged federations to include municipal
mayors in any administrative function of Nuestras Raices Ill. However, many mayors co-participated in
the activities of that program. As stated in the Participatory Plan below, workshops are planned to
strengthen bonds between mayors/Municipal Councils and federations, to (i) coordinate NR IV activities
and (ii) promote the participation of indigenous peoples and their proposals in the Municipal Social
Investment Planning process.
9. Project Cycle and the Operational Manual
An operational manual of the Nuestras Raices Program will include (i) the selection criteria of beneficiary
groups (50% old and 50% new), and project eligibility; (2) project cycle guidelines; and (3) Monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms and procedures. This manual will be included as part of the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP).
Examples of Types of Eligible Small-scale projects
>  Small education and health projects (i.e. rehabilitation of a room, wall painting, building school fences,
community rooms, creating recreational spaces);
>  Other small-scale projects which benefit the community and have been prioritized by its members.
Beneficiary groups must be able to participate in project implementation;
>  Integrated small-scale projects that aim at improving peoples' health and protect the environment (i.e.
- 63-



an integrated project of planting a tree fann, transplanting of trees to protect the watersheds, garbage
collection from rivers and ponds, streets and parks, cleaning of well and latrines, building fences to
avoid erosion produced by animals, etc.
> Micro-projects which seek promotion or protection of cultural values and heritage, i.e. rehabilitation
and cleaning of sacred temples, ruins; collection of oral tradition and systematization of stories to be
used by bilingual teachers; training of young women and men in traditional arts and crafts, music, etc.
>  Small-scale integrated projects to support women, children and the elderly (i.e. training project on
crafts, sawing, weaving, art, basketry, language, traditional agricultural techniques, etc.) where older
folks teach the young;
>  Micro-projects to help communities initiate productive activities (i.e. crop production, raising chickens
or sheep, etc.)
> Integrated economic infrastructure projects (i.e. building walking bridges, rehabilitating roads,
building docks, cleaning the field for planting, rehabilitating small canals for navigation.
Examples of Micro-projects that are not Eligible
> Micro-projects which benefit isolated individuals, not a group of more than 20 beneficiaries of NR;
>  Major social or economic infrastructure projects in FHIS menu.Technical specifications will be drawn
by FHIS to separate major infrastructure considered in FHIS's menu, and minor infrastructure which
can be considered under NR.
>  Production and comrnercialization of drugs;
>  Micro-credit.
>  Financing of festivals, bingos, and other festivities;
>  Salaries, trips, building maintenance or overhead (i.e. school teacher, nurse, etc.)
10. Monitoring, ex-ante and ex-post evaluation
Micro-project monitoring is carried out by the FHIS-ethnic liaison team and reported to FHIS and the
respective Federations, by means of the monitoring instruments designed by FHIS. Progress and completion
reports are the responsibility of the FHIS liaison. An ex-ante inventory of socio-economic conditions as
well as the status of the community banks initiated by the communities will be carried out by the
coordinator as the first step in the group training session. Coordinators are trained by NGOs to execute this
task. NR IV will benefit at least 50%/o of previous beneficiaries of the program which have created a
microenterprise (i.e. small food store, small manufacturing industry, etc.) with support of the program, or
have initiated a community bank financed, in part, on payments received for labor provided in subproject
construction. Finally, an ex-post evaluation of micro-project completion includes important information on
the status of new micro-enterprises (including programs to promote cultural heritage and awareness)
initiated or continued with the revenues of NR IV Program, as well as the status of community banks
created by participating communities and supported by the Program.
Examples of Monitoring Indicators
# of groups formed which have implemented a small-scale project
# of integrated community projects implemented by women's groups
Typology of micro-enterprises which have developed as result of Nuestras Raices
# of micro-enterprises created with NR funds
# of coordinators trained in organization and management of small-scale community projects and
community banks
# of FHIS liaisons trained and certified in community organization and management of subprojects and
- 64 -



community banks
# of ethnic liaisons trained and certified in community organization and management of subprojects and
community banks
# of micro-projects identified and implemented by communities
# of women in key positions (president, treasurer) in community bank committees
# of Federations strengthened financially, organizationally, and technically based on independent
evaluations
# of community banks opened with a previous NR project and strengthened with Nuestras Raices IV
# of new community banks supported by Nuestras Raices IV
# of community banks covering all operating costs with operating revenues
# of community banks with on-time loan repayment of at least 95%
# of community banks with more than 20 members
# of community banks with a capital of more than NNN lempiras based on retained eamings
# of community banks managed by women
11. Project completion and disbursement
As with NR III, payment for satisfactory micro-project completion will be handed to each group
coordinator in open fora with the participation of FHIS representatives, FHIS and ethnic liaisons, the
municipal mayor, group participants and the community.
12. Investment in community banks and other community projects
Each community group decides either to start a community bank by itself or jointly with other group(s), or
to engage m a single or joint venture(s) to invest in a prioritized community development project.
13. Institutional Strengthening of the Ethnic Communities and their Federations
NR IV will provide financial support and capacity building to the ethnic Federations, to ensure a solid
partnership for project implementation. NR IV seeks to transfer capacities for the organization,
administration, and management of community banks and small-scale projects to ethnic liaisons,
coordinators and the participating community groups. It also seeks to provide opportunities to implement
micro-projects which promote cultural values, preserve cultural heritage and increase cultural awareness.
14. Planned sustainability of micro-projects
Training for project prioritization will include a longer term vision of community development, so that
prioritized small-scale projects are part of a community development plan. In terms of physical
maintenance of small community works, each group is given training and a tool kit (for manual labor) for
sustainability of any physical construction. For follow-up community works, technical assistance will be
available from NRIV. For the subset of communities which form community banks, special technical
assistance will be provided to ensure that they are managed in ways which increase the chance for long
term sustainability.
15. Community contribution
While labor is paid under the Nuestras Raices program, other community contributions (cost of local
materials, technical expertise, cash invested, etc.) will be costed and recorded.
- 65-



16. Supervision of micro-projects and creation/strengthening of community banks
Both FHIS and Federations shared the responsibility of Monitoring and Supervision of NR III from the
central, regional and local levels. A proper Monitoring and Supervision Plan will be agreed by FHIS and
Federations, and submitted to IDA as part of the PIP, prior to implementation of NR IV.
17. Evaluations
A Mid-term evaluation will be carried out after completion of the first half of the program. An impact
evaluation by an independent firm is planned at completion of Nuestras Raices IV.
18. Timing
Nuestras Raices IV is to be implemented in approximately three years.
Table 1. PROJECTIONS FOR NUESTRAS RAICES IV.
Outcomes
Ethnic Group     Nr. Groups   New groups       Total #    Total # group  Projected Payment  Percentage of
NR m which   selected by   Groups old    members           for labor       payment-per
need training  federation for   and new     (direct     At Lps 60/day for    group %
to become      NR IV        (30 per    Beneficiaries regular and Lps. 120
beneficiaries              group)for NR  ) of NR IV*   for special groups
of NR IV                       IV                         Lempiras
Lencas ONILH                832           726         1,558       46,740          42,066,000          31.0
Lencas COPIN                480           100          580        17,400           15,660,000          11.5
Miskitos                    384           384          768        23,040          41,472,000       _30.5
Garlfunas                   350           350          700        21,000           18,900,000          14.0
Pech                         48            20           68         2,040            1,836,000           1.4
Tolupan                     134            60           194        5,820           5,238,000            3.9
Isleffos*                    18            51           69         2,070           3,726,000            2.7
Chorti                       71            45           116        3,480           3,132,000            2.3
Nahuas                        57           35            92        2,760            2,484,000           1.8
Tawahka*                       8           15           23           690            1,242,000           0.9
TOTAL                      2382          1786         4,198      125,040          135,756,000         100.0
Costs for these groups are twice higher than the rest.
**Group members are one per family. The rest of family members (5 more on average) are considered indirect beneficiaries. Different members of the
family may participate in project implementation, one at a time.
Source: Planning of NR IV. FHIS-BM. August, 2000
- 66-



Table 2. PARTICIPATORY INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PLAN FOR
NUESTRAS RAICES IV
Activity             Description                     Training   Responsi Date           Approximate
provider   ble                     Cost in US$
1. Quarterly Workshop  Workshops to design and monitor   --     FHIS     May 2000 -     US$ 10,000
FHIS-                NR Program.                                         To end of      per w/shop
federations/benefic                                                      program
2. Training of       Training in program              NGO       FHIS     Dec 2000 -
Federations, FHIS and  administration/management, small                  January 2001
ethnic liaisons      community works, community banks
3. Training of       Training in program administration, NGO    FHIS    Starting         1,080,000
coordinators         small community works, community                    January, 2001
banks, ex-ante evaluation
4. Institutional     Contract with 10 Federations for  FHIS     FHIS    January 2001    195,000
Strengthening of     co-management of program
Federations
5.Manuals and Cartillas Review and preparation of Manuals  NGO  FHIS     Nov-Dec 2000   10,000
to be adapted to the different
languages
6. Reproduction of   Manuals, Brochures, posters,    NGO        FHIS     Dec 2000 -      20,000
materials in different   registration books                              January 2001
languages                 _  ________
7. Meetings with     FHIS will invite mayors and     FHIS       FHIS     Nov 2000 - May 20,000
mayors               govemors to introduce them to                       2001
Nuestras Raices and request
collaboration
8. Dissemination     Campaign to be conducted by radio          FHIS-NG Starting January
Campaign.            and local newspapers, in Spanish and       0        2001
local languages
9. Elaboration of ethnic New ethnic map showing coverage   FHIS  FHIS    Sept. 2000      done
map                  with NRIV
10 . Program launch    Session on procurement issues for   FHIS-  FHIS    January 2001 (?)
Workshop             NR IV implementation with        World
participation of ethnic federations.   Bank
Dates and amounts may be adjusted during implementation.
- 67 -



Table 3. HONDURAS: FHIS. NUESTRAS RAICES IV
Indigenous Peoples Strategy Matrix (IPDP)
Beneficiary Groups:             Location: Lenca (Lempira, Intibuca, La Paz, Comayagua, Ocotepeque,
Lenca, Garifuna, Misquito,      Francisco Morazan, Santa Barbara, Copin, Valle); Garifuna (Cortes,
Tolupan, Creole, Chorti, Pech,  Atlantida, Col6n, Gracias a Dios; (Misquito (Gracias a Dios); Tolupan (
Tawahka, Nahua.                 Yoro, Francisco Morazan); Creole (Islas de la Bahia, AtlIntida); Chorti
(Copan, Ocotepeque); Tawahkas (Olancho, Gracias a Dios, Margen Rio
Patuca, Bi6sfera, Rio Platano); Nahuas (Catacamas, Guata).
Technical Identification        A social and Institutional assessment was elaborated by the GOH and the
of Development and targeting    federations representing the nine ethnic groups, in the course of several
workshops held to discuss lessons learned with NR I, II and III. Quarterly
Participatory Workshops with stakeholders will be held to monitor project
implementation. Beneficiaries are identified by the ethnic federations among
the poorest strata of the respective ethnic group. Coordinators and ethnic
liaisons are identified by the communities in agreement with the respective
federations. Micro-projects are prioritized by the community groups and
selected according to criteria agreed on by FHIS, the Federations and IDA.
NR IV is targeted to 125,000 heads of households (men, women, youths).
Institutional capacity         The Nuestras Raices Project Implementation Unit will work closely and
side-by-side with the ten autochthonous federations for optimal project
implementation results. An innovation of NR IV is the institutional
strengthening of the federations to co-manage the program side-by-side with
FHIS. Upon training, over 330 field teams (of 2) of FHIS and ethnic liaisons
are expected to provide technical assistance to community groups in the
formulation and implementation of small-scale projects. Over 4,000
coordinators selected by the groups will be trained in community
organization, implementation and sustainability of small-scale projects or the
creation and management of small community banks.
Implementation Plan             The NR IV Program will be implemented in three years. An implementation
plan has been agreed on by FHIS, the beneficiaries and their representative
federations. National and local NGOs will be contracted for training of
coordinators, FHIS and ethnic liaisons, and federations. A total of 1760
small-scale subprojects may be implemented during year 1, 1,200 during year
2 and 1,200 during year 3.
Monitoring and Evaluation      A monitoring and evaluation system will be in place by effectiveness. An
impact evaluation based on a sample of projects is planned by midterm of the
project and at the end of the three years. An independent firm will be
contracted to implement the evaluation.
Legal Framework                 As with the previous phases of the program, NR IV is structured and
implemented in compliance with ILO Agreement 169 ratified in Honduras in
1995 (Decree 26-94 on Indigenous Peoples and Tribal Groups, 1989); Article
364 of the Constitution of the Republic of Honduras, and O.D. 4.20 of the
World Bank.
- 68-



Baseline Data                  One of the initial steps of the implementation plan is the collection of baseline
indicators.
Land Tenure                    Not applicable.
Local Participation Strategy   Community groups are the main stakeholders of NR. They are trained to
discuss needs, prioritize and implement their small-scale subproject.
Community groups are also trained to invest seed capital in a small
community bank or a community project. Ethnic groups select their
coordinator among group members. The coordinator receives the necessary
training. The ethnic liaison is also a community member nominated by the
community, in agreement with the respective federation.
- 69-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Honduras: FHIS V
Water Supply and Sanitation
1.    Issues in Water supply and Sanitation in Honduras
1.1    Roles of sectors players from 1980 to 2000
Roles of sector players had been defined in the early 1980's for two types of localities:
* Localities with a population of less than 500 inhabitants ("rural dispersed areas") were under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Health.
* Localities with a population of more than 500 inhabitants ("concentrated rural areas" and urban) were
under the responsibility of the Servicio Aut6nomo de Agua y Alcantarillados (SANAA), with the
exception of the city of San Pedro Sula where services were under the municipality.
In urban areas the above framework was respected until the passage of the Law of Municipalities (1991),
which gave the responsibility of assuring basic services to municipalities. In practice, the transfer of
responsibilities between SANAA and municipalities has progressed slowly and is far from complete. Other
important players are NGOs operating in both urban and rural areas, either on their own or in association
with SANAA and with the Ministry of Public Health. In rural areas, operation and maintenance is under
the responsibility of communities through user associations called Junta Administradora de Agua (JA).
The JA, or Water Administration Board, is a body accepted by all actors. Formal efforts to coordinate
services in rural areas began in 1991 with the creation of the Grupo Colaborativo, bringing together all
private and public actors involved in the water and sanitation rural sector.
1.2    Current fmancial practices in the sector
In urban areas, the construction of major urban water infrastructure is principally financed through
international loans and budgetary allocations by the central government and by major municipalities. In
addition, intermediate and smaller cities have received bilateral funds for sector investments. The
UNICEF-SANAA peri-urban water and sanitation project has demonstrated the feasibility of achieving
almost complete cost recovery of construction costs (and complete recovery of operating costs) of water
supply and sanitation systems in poor neighborhoods of Tegucigalpa.
In rural areas, the majority of NGOs and sector agencies have adopted a practice that subsidizes
approximately 70% of the initial investment costs of water supply systems. The commnunity provides the
other 30% in the form of labor, local materials, and (often) cash contributions. Operation and maintenance
are the responsibility of the communities. For sanitation and for latrines in particular, public agencies and
NGOs are using a range of financial policies, with variable rates of subsidies.
1.3    Current coverage and investment needs
Overall coverage statistics are high relative to other countries in the region: 76% of the Honduras
population has access to basic water supply services and 66% has access to basic sanitation. Further
analysis, breaking down coverage by geographical zone, however reveals important coverage gaps.
- 70 -



In urban zones, generally high coverage numbers (89% in water supply and 86% in sanitation Source
Grupo Colaborativo, OPS, UNICEF:), hide the fact that poor urban zones have significantly lower
coverage (exact proportion not estimated) and face problems of quality of coverage - in particular,
intermittent distribution is prevalent The most recent report from the Collaborative Water and Sanitation
Working Group, headed by PAHO states that 24 hour service is found only in rural areas and in four
secondary cities. Overall water service averages 6 hours/day in urban areas.)
In rural concentrated areas, coverage is estimated to be 80% for water supply and 50% for sanitation
(sanitation estimate is for both rural concentrated and dispersed areas). Many systems are approaching the
end of their life cycles (20 years and more) and collected tariff in most cases only covers operation and
maintenance, and does not suffice to create reserves for the rehabilitation of systems or for major
extensions. System rehabilitations and network extensions will require important new investments.
In rural dispersed areas (that represent approx. 1/3 of the country's population and that have the lowest per
capita income levels), less than one person out of two has access to basic water supply service. Coverage
is even lower for sanitation.
1.4    Key elements of potential sector strategy
The Law of Municipalities (adopted in 1991) and the Law of Potable Water and Sanitary Sewerage
(preliminary draft No. 7 - currently in process of approval in the Parliament), outlines the following
distribution of responsibilities in the sector for the future:
* The Municipalities will be responsible to provide water and sanitation services in urban areas
(directly through a municipal body or through private sector participation) and rural areas
(delegating operation and maintenance to community-based User Associations).
m The National Commission for Potable Water and Sewerage would be responsible for regulation of
services, and would be established as an independent entity.
*1 The Ministry of Health would be responsible to formulate sector policies and regulations and to assure
water quality surveillance.
In urban areas, once the law is ratified, systems are expected to be transferred from SANAA to the
municipalities over a three-years period. Investments in new systems or to upgrade existing systems would
be credit-financed, and access to credit would be conditional to reforms towards financial viability (support
to this process is expected to come from the Potable Water and Sanitation Investment Program being
prepared for IDB financing).
The current and the proposed institutional frameworks do not specifically address the issue of services to
low-income neighborhoods. It is expected that important gaps in services to poor people will continue to
exist. Experience in Tegucigalpa's UNICEF-SANAA project has shown that it is possible to use
approaches that recover almost 100% of initial investment costs, even for very low income consumers,
increasing the likelihood of sustainability. The challenge is to scale up services in poor urban zones
building on accumulated experience with approaches that have achieved high cost-recovery.
In rural concentrated areas, many systems are now approaching the end of their life cycles. Important
investmnent needs therefore exist in particular for system rehabilitation and network extensions, and these
are unlikely to be met through credit because most rural concentrated communities do not have access to
commercial credit. There is thus justification for public finance mechanisms, such as FHIS, to provide
- 71 -



grants to match significant community contributions for investments in rural concentrated areas. The need
for grants may decrease over time if sector reform efforts lead to higher cost recovery policies and if credit
becomes more widely available to finance such local investments.
In rural dispersed areas, approximately one million people live without access to basic water supply and
sanitation services. SANAA is not geared to respond to dispersed areas as it is focused on more
concentrated zones. The Ministry of Health and the NGOs cunrently invest less than two million dollars per
year in rural dispersed areas, compared to investment needs of at least seven million dollars over the next
10 years to increase coverage to 80% of the rural dispersed population. In these zones, the financing
solution is likely to come from a mix of community contributions and grants fnanced from public funds.
The institutional solution is likely to involve a variety of actors working in partnership with dispersed
communities: municipalities, NGOs, private sector service providers, and possibly SANAA. The Ministry
of Health is expected to gradually withdraw from project execution as a result of the upcoming Law of
Potable Water and Sanitary Sewerage.
2.     Lessons learned from past FHIS activities in the sector and proposed roles for F'HIS in the
future
2.1    Lessons learned from FHIS activities in water supply and sanitation
Between 1994 and 1998, FHIS invested US$20.5 million in water and sanitation projects, or approximately
15% of its investment. A large proportion of FHIS urban and rural water projects were system
rehabilitation and improvements in service quality, rather than increasing coverage. FHIS has had more
experience extending coverage in sanitation. In urban sanitation, FHIS investments represented 15% of the
total increase of 98,000 new sanitary services established during 1994-97. In rural sanitation, FHIS
latrines represented 23% of the total increase of 34,000 sanitary services constructed in rural areas during
1994-97.
Recent evaluations suggest that the sustainability of water supply systems financed between 1994 and 1998
has been relatively weak. Future investments will require (i) improving demand-responsiveness and
increasing community participation in investmnent decisions and in supervising execution of the works, to
align design and supervision decisions with end-users' interests, (ii) improving training and capacity
building for operation and maintenance and (iii) strengthening local capacity (public or private) for
occasional technical support to system maintenance.
Costs per connection in water supply projects fmanced between 1994 and 1998 have a connection cost
significantly higher than other programs operating in rural and poor urban communities in Honduras. A
preliminary evaluation report points to a difference of approximately 60% between connection costs in
FHIS-financed projects and average connection costs in projects financed by other programs. The
evaluation recommends changing contracting modalities to increase demand-responsiveness and community
participation in project preparation and execution, as a means to improve cost efficiency.
There are also technical quality issues with past FHIS investments in the sector. Water supply projects are
the ones with most problems according to beneficiaries' opinion. Common problems identified include
problems with sand filters, high pressure leading to frequent pipe breakage, storage tank leaks or with weak
support structures. The evaluation recommends closer technical supervision by FHIS as well as by the user
communities themselves.
- 72 -



2.2    Proposed FHIS roles for the future
The volume of investment projects to be financed by FHIS in 2000-2004 in the water and sanitation sector
will respond to municipalities' demands. More than 25 % of the solicitations submitted by municipalities
to FHIS in 1998 were in the water and sanitation sector, making for more than $30 million of potential
investment.
The FHIS, as a governmental mechanism to finance local infrastructure projects on a grant basis, has
demonstrated its ability to manage and follow up a large number of different contracts. The sector reforms
under-way will lead to increased roles to be performed by municipalities and communities, and a reduced
execution role by the Ministry of Health. This creates space for an increased role for FHIS to help address
existing gaps in coverage in rural areas and in poor urban areas, in support to municipalities and
communities.
At the same time, the assessment of past FHIS performance in the sector highlights the need to reform
FLIS procedures and partnership modalities to lead to systems that are more sustainable, of satisfactory
construction quality, and cost effective.
FHIS therefore will strengthen its capacity to evaluate project design ex-ante and to control execution
quality ex-post. This should help provide clear direction to partners and contractors on what is expected
from them in order to prepare and implement sub-projects of satisfactory quality. It should lead to initially
focus investments on "simple" projects (i.e. rehabilitation/extension of systems administered by strong
pre-existingjuntas de agua) and gradually reforming procedures to include more "complex" projects (i.e.
new systems, or projects that require extensive capacity-building efforts). FHIS will need to gradually
strengthen its methodologies in this sector, including by adopting more effective demand-driven
implementation arrangements, working more closely with communities and other local partners, and by
increasing the emphasis on cost recovery, based on successful experiences in Honduras and elsewhere.
The following presents the rationale for continued FHIS intervention in rural dispersed, rural concentrated
and urban poor areas.
Rural dispersed areas. Dispersed areas have the lowest per capita real incomes and lowest water &
sanitation coverage in the country. There is very low potential for commnunities to access bank credit in
these areas for water supply and sanitation investments, because financial services are not available, and
because prevailing sector policies in Honduras and in most other countries require only partial cost
recovery of initial investment costs. Investments in the form of grants that match local contributions are
thus justified in dispersed areas. This is the most justified niche for FLIS intervention in the sector in the
mediun-term, financing a variety of actors involved in these areas: municipalities, NGOs, private sector
service providers, community user associations themselves (Juntas de Agua), in partnership with the
Ministry of Health and SANAA.
- 73-



Rural concentrated areas. As explained above, important investment needs continue to exist in rural
concentrated areas, in particular for system rehabilitation and network extensions. Until the sector adopts
and implements new policies with respect to credit and higher levels of cost recovery, there remains a clear
justification for public financing of network extension and rehabilitation of systems that are approaching
the end of their life cycles. FHIS, as a channel of public finance for local infrastructure, is well placed to
invest in rural concentrated water and sanitation systems.
Urban areas. It is important that FIRS financing in urban areas supports the efforts of other institutions to
reform the sector and avoids creating distortions in the reform efforts. FHIS should thus avoid making
investments that would subsidize systems administered by formnal institutions like SANAA, municipal
entities, utilities which are currently encouraged to become financially viable.
There is however a place for FHIS investments in systems to be administered by autonomousjuntas de
agua or users' associations, in those poor neighborhoods of large cities that are unlikely to be covered in
the next 5 to 10 years by network expansion of the formal institutions. Experience in Honduras has shown
that it is possible to evolve urban services for the poor to a logic of financial viability. Investrnents in these
zones needs to be subject to eligibility criteria and financial policies that require high cost recovery levels to
assure that FHIS investments will not crowd out credit-financing solutions.
3.     FHIS 5 proposal in water supply and sanitation
The general objective of FHIS 5 in the water supply and sanitation sector is to increase sustained access by
the poor to water supply and sanitation services. To achieve this objective, the FHIS 5 project has a
strategy in two parts:
The first part of the strategy is to respond to needs expressed through the municipal planning process of
1998 by supporting sub-projects in the sector, and to assure quality of these sub-projects by implementing
a strengthened process for "ex-ante" evaluation of all sub-projects, with differentiated criteria for rural and
urban zones and for different types of sub-projects. This will permit to filter sub-projects designs that have
an acceptable quality (in term of potential sustainability, acceptable subsidy levels, costs and technical
solutions). The project will also use a strengthened "ex-post" evaluation process for all sub-projects, to
identify required corrective actions, to assure sustainability and quality of construction, and to hold
executing agents accountable.
The second part of the strategy is to support a pilot program focused on rural dispersed zones. This pilot
will test several options of institutional arrangements and a demand-driven approach, in association with
the sector coordination body (Grupo Collaborativo) with the airn of preparing a strategy to roll out the
approach in close coordination with major sector actors.
There is an expected synergetic effect between the two parts of the strategy. The quality control procedures
are expected to create incentives and guidelines to reform FHIS procedures in the sector. In turn,
procedures developed for the pilot program are expected to be relevant for investments in concentrated and
urban areas as well, and could inform the reform of FHIS project procedures for water supply and
sanitation investmnents in general.
3.1    First part of the strategy: assuring quality of all water and sanitation sub-projects
To assure quality of FHIS sub-projects in the water supply and sanitation sector (quality defined as
sub-projects leading to systems that are sustainable, cost competitive, with satisfactory construction
- 74 -



quality, timely), FHIS 5 will achieve the following two process outputs as part of the sub-project
component of FIlS 5 (component for all sub-projects including for water supply and sanitation):
* Establishment and use of ex-ante evaluation instruments for all water supply and sanitation
sub-projects;
* Establishment and use of ex-post evaluation instruments for all water supply and sanitation
sub-projects.
Ex-ante evaluation instrument
The ex-ante evaluation instruments will have differentiated criteria for rural and urban zones and for
different types of sub-projects. The instruments will be used to "score" prepared projects to measure
factors expected to have impact on project quality, with particular attention to indicators of sustainability
(economic, social, technical, institutional, and enviromental). Proposed budget and execution duration of
sub-projects will also be evaluated as part of the ex-ante evaluations. The ex-ante evaluations will be
executed after the sub-projects have been prepared, partly on the basis of project documents and partly
through a field survey that will include interviews with community members. All projects that do not reach
a minimum score will be retumed to the drawing board.
Ex-post evaluation instrument
The ex-post evaluations will be realized 6 months after sub-project ending. In cases of unsatisfactory
quality results, the following actions will be taken:
(i) if the ex-post evaluation is not satisfactory, the project will be repaired by the executing agent or
else FILLS will use the collateral of the executing agent to repair the project;
(ii) if the executing agent and/or the contractor for supervision has two projects that fail the ex-post
evaluation due to poor quality of execution, the executing agent and/or the supervision contractor
will not be able to execute any other FHIS project.
Preparations of the evaluation tools
Consultants working in close collaboration with FIBS will prepare the tools. The tools will be appraised by
a World Bank mission prior to being implemented
Criteria for appraisal of the evaluation tools:
* includes indicators that will appraise the potential for sustainability, and conformity to acceptable costs
per capita ; conformity to project duration standards', confonnity to acceptable financial rules
* allows for weighted scoring of each indicator and of the sub-project overall;
* minimizes the evaluator's interpretation (in order to obtain similar results independent of the examiner);
* be user-friendly in the field and evaluation process should require less than one day per sub-project (for
each of the ex-ante and ex-post evaluations);
* have been pre-tested in the field by different evaluators to assure similarity of results across evaluators
and to verify accuracy of evaluation results.
,,
Drivers of sustainability defined in the Appendix 1;
21
To be based on a review of actual costs of mains sector players
To be based on a review of project cycle duration of main sector players;
4,
High cost recovery for urban areas; partial cost recovery in rural concentrated and dispersed areas;;
- 75-



Condition for disbursement
The approval of the evaluation tools by the World Bank is a condition for disbursements in the water and
sanitation sector.
3.2    Second part of the strategy: pilot program for rural dispersed areas
3.2.1 Objectives and expected outputs
The objective of the pilot project is to establish and test an intervention approach and institutional
arrangements that will later be applied to scale up investrnents in rural dispersed areas. This will
contribute to the overall objective of the component, which is to increase sustained access and use by the
poor to water and sanitation services.
The pilot will aim to produce outputs that will set a basis for scaling up investments in rural dispersed
areas. The expected outputs are:
Approach and instituticnal arrangements shown to lead to sustainable and cost-effective outcomes
>   The approach and institutional arrangements will produce a minimum of 100 investment
sub-projects in a minimum of 50 rural dispersed communities in the sector of water supply
and sanitation, improving access to potable water and sanitation services for a minimum of
20,000 users
>   A high proportion of sub-projects will be economically, socially and environmentally
sustainable
>   A high proportion of sub-projects will be prepared and executed at cost levels per capita close
to national average for comparable systems in comparable areas
>   A high proportion of sub-projects (hardware and software) will be prepared and executed at
satisfactory technical quality levels
>   A high proportion of sub-projects will be prepared and executed in satisfactory time frames
>   The process of identification and prioritization of sub-projects will be validated
>   Among the tested institutional arrangements, the pilot program will have identified those best
suited to produce sustainable and cost-effective sub-projects
Operational instruments refined for scaling up
> Operational manual and instruments for scaling-up will be refined and validated with the
Grupo Collaborativo
Strategy for scaling-up prepared jointly with the Grupo Collaborativo
>   Strategy document for scaling-up will be prepared in collaboration with the Grupo
Collaborativo
3.2.2 Approach and institutional arrangements to be tested
Identification and prioritization of water and sanitation projects in dispersed areas:
The process of selection of communities will be integrated in the process of microplanification that will be
piloted in certain municipalities. The process by which specific community's projects will be selected will
be designed during preparations of the pilot program.
- 76 -



Demand-driven approach
Experience in Honduras and internationally has shown that a demand-driven approach increases the
potential for sustainable and cost-effective outcomes. The term "demand-driven" is also used as short form
for a strategy that gives consideration to five fields that interact with sustainability (social, technical,
economic, institutional and environmental) The key elements of the approach to be applied in the pilot are
described in appendix 1 at the end of this annex.
Institutional arrangements
The pilot program will test three alternative institutional arrangements for financing and contracting, and
will aim to determine if all or some of the three institutional arrangements can be effective in terms of
sustainability, cost competitiveness, technical quality and speed of delivery.
All three institutional arrangements have been identified in a consultative process that included F'LIS and
key players of the sector. All three arrangements aim to enable communities and their service providers to
collaborate closely as they prepare and execute water and sanitation projects, in all cases using the same
demand-driven approach described above.
The three institutional arrangements, described in appendix 2 of this annex in more detail are:
i) delegation of the operational project cycle to municipalities;
ii) direct contracting of NGOs or firms to work in partnership with communities from the
beginning to the end of the project cycle;
iii) direct contracting of the communities themselves who in turn can sub-contract service
providers of their choice to execute the projects.
3.2.3 Financial policy
The design of the pilot program will include development of a financial policy that defines the share of
community contribution to different types of works in rural dispersed areas, and the process by which this
contribution is paid. Because it is important to maintain consistency between dispersed, rural concentrated
and urban areas, a consistent FHIS financial policy will be developed early on during pilot preparations,
for early application in all FHIS investments in the water supply and sanitation sector.
A key principle of the financial policy to be applied in the pilot is that part of the community contribution
will be in cash, as a means to encourage greater rationality in selection of technology and service level
options and to enhance likelihood of sustainability.
The financial policy will be developed during pilot preparations using the following considerations:
Capacity and willingness to pay;
Maximum subsidy per capita taking into account considerations of "scaleability" of subsidies, to
assure that subsidy levels that will be piloted are "scaleable" from a point of view of availability of
domestic fiscal resources and international public finance.
Current practices in Honduras.
3.2.4 Learning and preparations for scaling-up
The pilot program will include a learning component that will help prepare the strategy for scaling-up.
- 77 -



This component will be executed jointly with the Grupo Collaborativo National Network of the main
sector actors. This partnership should help to validate lessons learned and to facilitate transfer of lessons
learned into national policies and strategies for scaling-up.
3.2.5 Coordination with other sector agencies
The Grupo Collaborativo will be invited by FHIS to provide advice on technical and social issues in the
pilot program. Regular meetings will be conducted for such discussions. Because the Grupo
Collaborativo includes agencies that could be potential executing agencies for FHIS, discussions will not
include contracting policies or other financial aspect or any theme that could present a conflict of interest
related to the composition of Grupo Collaborativo.
3.2.6 Preparations of operational manual, capacity-building of FHIS and technical assistance during
pilot execution
A consulting firm will be hired by FHIS through a competitive bidding process (in line with Bank
procurement policies) to prepare the operational aspects of the pilot and to advise FHIS in the execution of
the pilot program. The firm will be responsible to produce a detailed pilot design feasible for
implementation by FHIS, and will be responsible to provide trouble-shooting support to FHIS to assure
effective implementation.
Specific responsibilities of the consulting firm will include:
preparing the pilot operational policy manual and the implementation plan;
identifying FHIS' institutional building needs for successful pilot implementation;
advising FHIS in establishing appropriate institutional capacity;
advising FHIS on a punctual basis in the execution of the pilot program to assure effective
implementation.
3.2.7  Duration of the pilot program
Detailed preparation of the pilot program will be conducted over a period of 3 months after a technical
assistance firm is contracted and its team mobilized. The pilot program is expected to begin
implementation in March 2001 and to be executed over a 24 months period.
3.2.8   Conditions for component disbursement
Disbursements under this component should begin only after notice of no-objection by the World Bank
regarding the pilot's operational manual, imnplementation plan and FHIS' organizational arrangements for
pilot execution.
- 78 -



Appendix 1: Key elements of the intervention approach (demand-driven approach)
In the social field:
*   During the pre-investment stage, the NGO/firm will conduct, with the population, a study of the
characteristics, customs and local beliefs that will serve as the basis for the design of the education
programs in hygiene and sanitation.
*   During the pre-investment stage, the NGO/firm will prepare a sanitary education plan prepared in
response to the population's felt needs.
*   The population will participate in all the stages of the project. In particular, it will formally approve
the design of the project with 70% majority of user families informed about implications on the
execution, operation and maintenance of the project.
In the technical field:
* The NGO/firm will present to the population different technical options as well as the costs involved in
the execution, operation, maintenance and the implications in terms of the tariff.
* The NGO/firm is responsible for preparing the detailed plan for the option selected by the community,
and for assuring that this plan has the acceptance of the population.
*   The technology will be appropriate, using materials available locally. Access to key spare parts is
important as well.
* A large portion of the projects will be made in the mode of auto-construction (auto-construcci6n), an
approach well-tested in Honduras by other sector actors, using a specialist technician/carpenter to
guide the work.
In the economic field:
*   Co-financing by the community of the sub-project total cost, including a cash contribution (minimum
contribution percentages to be finalized), deposited in a bank account before the FHIS investment is
made.
*   Maximum subsidy levels per capita.
* Co-financing by the municipality (modalities to be finalized).
* Co-management between the community and the NGO/firm of the funds of the project (Bank account
with co-signatories, one representing the NGO/firm and one representing the community).
* The entire costs of operation and maintenance are the responsibility of the community through the
elected Junta de Agua.
In the institutional field:
* The municipality formally approves the design of the project.
* The municipality guarantees reliable external support for the Junta de Agua (JA) in the operation and
maintenance. This support is either done by personnel of the municipality or by contracting of a local
firm.
In the environmental field:
*   In the subproject preparation stage, after a diagnosis of the required changes, preparation of a training
plan for the protection of the micro-water basin.
*   Protection of the micro-water basin as part of the execution of the subproject, the NGO/firm develops a
plan for the administration of the micro-basin as well as a training plan for the protection of resources
where required.
-79-



Appendix 2: Institutional arrangements for the pilot program
MODEL 1: MODIFIED FHIS PROCESS - FHIS contracts an NGO/flrm to execute the
pre-investment stage, and contracts the same NGO/flrm in a partnership with the community during the
investment stage
Role of FHIS        Role of the NGO/rirm  Role of the       Role of the
as assistance to the    Municipality    Community
community
Pre-investment Contracts an NGO or  Identifies technical    Approves the   Organizes the Junta
firm that is        solutions including  proposed project and Administradora de
pre-qualified for   costs and benefits    the plan for execution Agua and selects a
community assistance                                        technical solution
Facilitates the choice
by the community                        Participates in the
preparation of the plan
Trains the conmnunity                  for execution and
organization                            signs it
Prepares the plan for                   Deposits a cash
execution jointly with                  contribution into the
the comnmunity                          project's bank account
(account of the
Prepares a                             NGO/firn with a
capacity-building plan                  co-signer
and hygiene education                   representative of the
plan jointly with the                   community)
community
Ex-Ante       Evaluates the project
Evaluation    and the plan of
execution
Investment    Contracts the        Executes the project   Contributes funds for Contributes
consortium          with the community   the execution of the  corresponding items,
community-NGO/firm  and sub-contracts    project            in cash or labor
contractors if necessary
Transfers funds into the                                    Executes the project
project's bank account                                      with the NGO/firm
(co-signers of the  Executes sanitary                       and sub-contracts
NGO/firm and the    education and the                       contractors if
community)          training of the junta of                necessary
water and sanitation
Operation and                      Trains the juntas de   Supports the     Sets and executes
Maintenance                        agua (tariff,        preventive and     management rules and
recollection, sanitary   corrective O&M  mechanisms
education)
Ex-post       Evaluates and finalizes
Evaluation    the project               .
- 80 -



MODEL 2: MANAGEMENT OF THE OPERATIVE CYCLE DELEGATED TO THE
MUNICIPALITY
Role of FHIS         Role of the NGO/firm   Role of the        Role of the Community
as assistance to the    Municipality
community
Pre-investment   Contracts municipality  Identifies technical  Contracts and finances Organizes the Junta
for pre-investmnent  solutions including costs an NGO or firm that  Administradora de Agua
and benefits         is pre-qualified for    and selects a technical
community assistance solution
Facilitates the choice
selected by the      Approves the proposed Participates in the
community            project and the plan   preparation of the plan
for execution       for execution and signs
Trains the community                     it
organization
Deposits a cash
Prepares the plan for                     contribution into the
execution in conjunction                 project's bank account
with the community                       (account of the
NGO/firm with a
Prepares a                                co-signer representative
capacity-building plan                    of the community)
and hygiene education
plan that responds to
demand
Ex-Ante            Evaluates the project                       Evaluates the project
Evaluation         and the plan of                             and the plan of
execution                                  execution
Investment         Transfers funds to    Executes the project    Transfers financial    Contributes
municipality for project with the community and funds into the project's corresponding items, in
execution            sub-contracts         bank account        cash or labor
contractors if necessary  (co-signers of the
NGO/firm and the    Executes the project
Executes sanitary    community)          with the NGO/firm and
education and the                        sub-contracts
training of thejunta of Contributes       contractors if necessary
water and sanitation    corresponding funds
for the execution of the
project
Operation and                            Trains the juntas de    Supports the      Sets and executes
Maintenance                              agua (tariff,         preventive and      management rules and
recollection, sanitary   corrective O&M   mechanisms
education)
Ex-post            Evaluates the project                       Evaluates the project
Evaluation                                                     and finalizes the
contract
- 81 -



MODEL 3: DIRECT CONTRACT WITH COMMUNITY - FHIS contracts an NGO/firm as assistance to the
communityfor the pre-investment stage, and contracts the communityfor the investment, with guarantee from the
municipality
Role of FHIlS      Role of the NGO/firm   Role of the       Role of the
as assistance to the  Municipality      Community
community
Pre-investment  Contracts an NGO or Identifies technical  Approves the      Organizes the Junta
firm that is       solutions including costs proposed project and Administradora de
pre-qualified for  and benefits          the plan for       Agua and selects a
community assistance    .    .    .      execution and      technical solution
Faclitates the choce  provides guantees
selected by t         to FHIS on behalf of Participates in the
commnunity           the community      preparation of the plan
Trains the community                    for execution and
organization                            signs it
Prepares the plan for
execution in conjunctionDeoisach
execution m conjunction                contribution into the
with the community                      project's bank account
Facilitates the                         (account of the
registration of the                     NGO/firm with a
community so that it has                co-signer
own legal personality                   representative of the
Prepares a                              community)
capacity-building plan
and hygiene education
plan that responds to
demand
Ex-Ante         Evaluates the project
Evaluation      and the plan of
execution
Investment      Contracts the       Supports the community  Contributes     Contributes
community          in the execution      corresponding funds corresponding iterns,
for the execution of  in cash or labor
Transfers financial   Executes sanitary  the project, in cash
funds into the project's education and the  or labor        Executes the project
bank account       training of the junta of                 and sub-contracts
water and sanitation                    contractors if
necessary
Operation and                       Trains the juntas de agua Supports the  Sets and executes
Maintenance                        (tariff, recollection,  preventive and   management rules and
sanitary education)   corrective O&M    mechanisms
Ex-post         Evaluates the project
Evaluation      and finalizes the
contract
- 82 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Local Institutional Strengthening Component
1.    Current Issues in Local Institutional Strengthening in Honduras
1.1   In the last decade Honduras has made important steps in terms of strengthening the role that local
governments and communities play in improving local living conditions. It established (i) a legal and
institutional framework favorable to decentralization (the 1990 Municipal Reform Law, and an independent
and active Association of Municipalities); (ii) a constitutional mandate to transfer 5% of the national
budget to municipalities (80% of which must go towards investments); and (iii) a network of public and
private, local and international actors supporting local institutional strengthening efforts.
1.2    At the same time, institutional, managerial, and economic constraints hamper the potential
contributions that local actors are able to make to reduce poverty. Notwithstanding participatory
experiences such as the one leading to the 1998 PISMs, ineffecient and often non-transparent local planning
practices are common. Due to budgetary constraints, central government transfers to municipalities have
averaged only 1.9% instead of 5%. Needs for a concerted effort to strengthen the role of local governments
have proved greater than the capacities of the chief Government agency charged with the task (Direcci6n
General de Asesoria y Asistencia Tecnica a los Municipios-DGAATM).
1.3    Despite these weaknesses and constraints, however, there is consensus in Honduras that a strategy
to combat poverty must include an effort to strengthen the roles of local actors, with an ongoing debate
about exactly how much power and responsibilities local actors should and will be able to commarnd. In this
context, the GOH has expressed a willingness to experiment with a gradual increase in the responsibilities
of local actors, and has assigned FHIS, which is recognized as a key link with local governments and
communities, with developing such an experiment.
2.    FIRS Experience in Local Institutional Strengthening
2.1    Since its inception, 10 years ago, FHIS has been gradually increasing its role in local institutional
strengthening, and addressing some of the above-mentioned challenges.
2.2   In terms of identification and prioritization of investments, FHIS has evolved through three stages.
It started, as many other social funds, receiving proposals from a wide variety of agents (community
groups, NGOs, local governments, line ministries, etc). Around 1995, realizing that this modality was
undermining local coordination and planning of investrnents, FHIS required that all community proposals
should have the mayor's signature and approval. A few years later, however, FHIS found that the mayor's
signature was not enough to guarantee good local coordination and that, in general, it was necessary a more
transparent and participatory process of project selection consistent with good local planning processes.
Thus, in 1998 it promoted that every municipality had to prepare a Municipal Social Investment Plan (Plan
de Inversion Social Municipal-PISM) through a process where all the communities in the municipality will
express and prioritize their preferences through different stages (first at the cornmunity level, then at the
zonal and finally at the municipal level). Investrnents were not just for FHIS allocation but for other
sources too. Unfortunately, the occurrence of Hurricane Mitch in November 1998 hindered the
implementation of these Plans. FHIS has improved the plans to deepen this path in the proposed new
operation.
2.3    FHIS has also contributed to a more transparent and accountable intergovermnental relation by
allocating funds to municipalities through the use of an objective and transparent ex-ante allocation
formula. Throughout this evolution, FHIS' increased ability to decentralize decision-maldng and foster
-83 -



community participation has enhanced the prospects for efficient and equitable resource allocation.
2.4   In terms of project implementation, contracting of private firms has been centralized in FHIS
headquarters with limited involvement of local actors (although involvement has increased over the years).
Anecdotal evidence and some experiments over the years has suggested to FHIS that relying on local
governments and conmmunities for project management could increase productive efficiency and
accountability. FHIS is willing to experiment in a few municipalities to see if that is the case.
2.5    Over the years, FHIS has modified its approach to improve the sustainability of subprojects.
Besides its efforts to coordinate with sector ministries at the central level, FHIS has worked at the local
level to increase community and local government involvement. It created maintenance-oriented community
organizations called ORMAS that receive training to diagnose and conduct small maintenance works. More
recently, FHIS has become interested in strengthening local government's role based on studies showing
that in many cases, municipalities have already been finding ways to pay for routine maintenance
expenditures and even operating costs, such as staff salaries, using resource transfers and other local
revenues.
3.     FHIS Proposal for the new project - Pilot Programs for Local Institutional Strengthening
3.1    Basically, these programs would constitute structured experiments designed to develop, test,
evaluate, and draw lessons regarding innovative approaches and methodologies to carry out decentralized
planning, subproject cycle management, and preventive maintenance. Although focused on the role of
municipal governments as "govemors" of local processes, FHIS' strategy combines the municipal and
community approaches to decentralization: roles and responsibilities are established at each of these levels.
3.2    The program's institutional strengthening would cover three interrelated aspects: participatory
planning, delegation of the project cycle, and preventive maintenance. In designing these pilots, key inputs
and lessons were taken from similar ongoing experiences in the social funds of Nicaragua and El Salvador.
Desien
a)    Participatory Local Planning Methodologies and Practice.
3.3    The objective of this sub-component is to improve identification and prioritization of social
infrastructure projects by making the planning process more participatory, inclusive, and transparent. This
attends to FHIS goal of responding to local preferences.
3.4    One of the key design issues considered during appraisal was whether FHIS should require a new
planning exercise for all the municipalities or should use the PISMs of 1998. After extensive consultations
with key stakeholders (municipalities, AMHON, NGOs, community organizations, etc) FHIS and IDA
agreed that requiring a new planning exercise for the allocation of the new loan before attending to the 1998
one would hurt rather than enhance the prospects of establishing a culture of participatory local planning in
Honduras. Communities and local governments have felt frustrated by the lack of funding for the priorities
identified in 1998, and thus are skeptical and reluctant to participate in another planning exercise if the
previous one is not honored. FHIS has lost credibility with local actors for not honoring those
commitments.
3.5    Based on these considerations, a two stage process was designed. During 2001-2002, and to regain
local actors' credibility, most municipalities will receive a part of their multi-year allocation to fumd the top
priorities of the 1998 plans (allocation will be determined according to absorptive capacity). At the same
time, a pilot will be carried out in 30 municipalities to test a new microplanning methodology that FHIS has
designed (with the help of a consultant) to correct the mistakes and criticisms made to the 1998
- 84 -



methodology. The new PISMs will be for the 2001-2002 period, and could be adjusted every year
according to specified procedures. Participating municipalities will be selected among those that are willing
to do a new planning process.
3.6   In the beginning of 2003, with credibility re-established and with a tested and improved planning
methodology, FHIS will require a new planning exercise in all the municipalities to identify investments for
the remaining part of their allocation.
3.7    The new methodology is similar to the one of 1998 in that it consists of a bottom-up approach
comprised of three basic stages: it starts with community assemblies where 3 priorities are identified; it
then goes to zone assemblies where community representatives rank the priorities in the zone; and finally
moves to a municipal meeting where zone representatives discuss with local authorities the municipal
prioritization, and prepare the social investment municipal plan. NGOs will train municipal staff and
community leaders involved in the planning process.
3.8    The new methodology improves upon the one used in 1998 in several areas:
(i)    respect for existing local planning efforts: if a municipality already has a participatory plan that
meets FHIS minimum planning criteria, FHIS will accept this plan. Disregarding those plans and requiring
a new one would signal to communities and local authorities that their own efforts are not valid;
(ii)   creation of local capacities: instead of having centrally hired FHIS facilitators, FHIS will contract
out to one or more NGOs the responsibility for training facilitators which will be preferably of local
government staff or individuals living in the area.
(iii)   Consistent, simple and transparent criteria for project prioritization at the zone and municipal
instances.
(iv)   women's participation: each community will send two representatives (one male, one female) to the
zone assembly.
3.9    The option of testing a negative menu in the pilot was considered. FHIS and the bank agreed that
this option is particularly relevant in the poorest municipalities, where FHIS often constitutes the only local
investment financing source. Opening up the menu in this context is likely to improve allocative efficiency
of FHIS investments. During implementation of the project (expected in year 3), FHIS expects to
experiment with the financing of subprojects on a negative menu basis, in the 10 poorest municipalities of
the pilot. A condition for finance will be IDA's approval of the instruments regulating (i) dissemination of
information to municipalities and communities explaining the objectives and restrictions of the negative
menu; (ii) criteria to establish negative menu; (iii) project appraisal criteria; and (iv) sustainability
considerations.
3.9(b) This component will also finance technical assistance for the implementation of a new round of
participatory planning in all municipalities in 2002.
Status of the Sub-component's Design
3.10   The design of this sub-component is at an advanced stage: the main instruments and procedures are
ready and have been developed with active involvement of FHIS as well as consultations with key
stakeholders such as AMHON. These instruments are: (i) FHIS participatory planning operations manual;
(ii) training materials for facilitators of zonal and municipal assemblies, for local authorities and for
community members conducting community assemblies; (iii) formats and guidelines for all the stages of the
planning process; (iv) terms of reference to hire NGOs and facilitators; (v) a detailed timetable for
implementing the pilot in 2001 and its scaling-up in 2002; (vi) key evaluation indicators.
- 85 -



b) Delegation of the Project Cycle (DOPC)
3.11   A second goal would be to test whether productive efficiency and accountability of FHIS
investments improves when FHIS delegates to local governments the responsibility for project design and
implementation. The first stage of the project cycle (project identification) and the last one (sustainability)
are delegated in the other two phases. Community contracting was also considered and it was agreed that it
would be tested in the rural dispersed water pilot since that is the sector where there is the strongest
rationale for community contracting and thus a good starting point to test this approach.
3.12   Municipalities will be free to execute the delegated activities in so far as they fulfill certain
requirements established by FHIS in the operational manual of the DOPC (this manual was developed
during the design phase). Municipalities will be able to adopt or adapt FIHIS project cycle to their needs.
Allowing that adaptation is a key lesson emerging from the ongoing experience of Nicaragua's FISE
delegation of the project cycle. Municipalities will inform FHIS, through pre-established links, about their
progress in the different stages of the project cycle.
3.13   Delegation of the project cycle to municipalities with low capacities could produce inequities in
service provision given the differences in executing capacity. Thus, this pilot will start with a group of 20
municipalities with high capacities. Eligibility to participate in the DOPC was based on criteria defined in
the DOPC operational manual. These criteria measure: municipal economic production, municipal revenue
generating capacity, and managerial capacities (personnel qualifications, experience in project cycle,
experience in contracting, and automatization).
3.14 FHIS will test two types of DOPC, taking into account the existing municipal capacities. Eight
municipalities, selected among those with higher capacities, will assume full implementation
responsibilities: design, construction and supervision. FHIS will retain the responsibilities for screening
project design and overseeing the construction and supervision processes. FHIS will finance the design
costs, and will co-finance the investment costs. Another ten municipalities, selected among those that need
some assistance, will assume partial implementation responsibilities.
3.15   Selecting among the strongest municipalities will be a way to "pick winners"-ie, those
municipalities with the higher chances of successful adoption of FI{TS project cycle. If these municipalities
fail to produce positive results, it would provide strong evidence against this altemative. This approach is
also consistent with lessons leamed on decentralization reforms, which suggest a gradual approach to
decentralization that starts with those that are better prepared to assume the new responsibilities. Finally,
starting with the more capable municipalities means requiring less institutional support from a FHIS that,
as mentioned before, is reorganizing itself after finishing with the emergency mode in which it worked
post-Mitch.
3.16   The pilot will have two stages: after the first two years an evaluation will determine whether to
include a second batch of municipalities, to continue with the same group, or to discontinue the pilot.
Criteria to incorporate new municipalities will be the same as for the first group-i.e., the most capable
ones. At this time, and based on the lessons of the first stage, FHIS will also consider designing a "
graduation" policy for the stronger municipalities that could borrow for small-scale infrastructure.
3.17   In addition to the new municipalities that may be included in the second stage, the pilot will also
start testing at that time with the DOPC to an association of municipalities. This is seen as a potential
strategy to overcome the bottlenecks created in some municipalities by their weak capacities. The candidate
for this experience is a group of five poor municipalities in the Garifuna region that is being supported
through an IDB technical cooperation. During the first two years of the program, this association will be
strengthened in order to assume FHiIS' project cycle during the last two years.
- 86 -



3.18   Given that this is an unprecedented experience in Honduras, during the first stage FHIS will
delegate for municipal management approximately half of the municipal allocation, and would keep the
other half to be managed by FHIS in the traditional way. In the event that a municipality lacks the capacity
to implement its share of the allocation, the local population will not suffer since FHIS would have made
some investments. Therefore, in these municipalities will coexist projects executed locally and project
executed by FHIS in the traditional way.
3.19   The program will temporarily finance the hiring of technical staff by the municipalities to
strengthen their project cycle management capacities. Municipalities will establish a Technical Office to
support the DOPC. This office will have a manager, an engineer and a systems operator. Once the pilot
has finished, the functions and personnel should be absorbed by the municipality's organizational structure.
In FHIS, the Municipal Strengthening Direction will be responsible for implementing the DOPC. This
Direction will be strengthened through the creation of a Support Unit to the DOPC.
Status of the Sub-component's Design
3.20   Advanced drafts of the following instruments has been presented to FHIS: (i) DOPC Operational
Manual; (ii) Contractual documents between FHIS and municipalities; (iii) Plan for Municipal Training
and Technical Assistance in DOPC; (iv) DOPC performance indicators.
c)    Preventive Maintenance
3.21   A third aim would be to formalize and strengthen systems for planning, financing and executing
preventive maintenance at both the municipal and the community levels. Specifically, the pilot will imnprove
the Maintenance System designed by FHIS for standard works and will prepare a plan to expand this
system in a second stage to the whole universe. The pilot is comprised by three areas: financial, normative,
and local capacity building.
3.22  In the financial area, TA would be provided to strengthen municipal financial management
capacities, focusing on the establishment of permanent systems to convert preventive maintenance into a
formal activity reflected in municipal plans and budgets. To this end, FHIS has elaborated, together with
the Secretaria de Gobemacion y Justicia, a "budgeting by program" manual to be used by municipalities.
This pilot will promote the adoption of this manual and will train municipal actors in budgetary
management.
3.23   This focus on municipal strengthening is founded on the results of several studies conducted under
the SIF III project and during preparation of SIF IV and V, which indicated that: (a) sector ministries that
are nominally responsible for operations and maintenance of social infrastructure have little or no budgets
available for routine and preventive maintenance expenditures, let alone for rehabilitation; (b) in most
cases, municipalities have the resources to pay for routine maintenance expenditures, and in many cases
they are doing it, using resource transfers and other local revenues; (c) the lack of budgetary planning,
however, has led to an inefficient use of maintenance spending, making it impossible to know whether the
current spending level is appropriate or not.
3.24   Each participating municipality will design a maintenance plan for every FHIS investment built
since 1998. Since the poorest municipalities may be unable to cover all preventive maintenance costs, a
proposal is being studied to subsidize a share of these costs through a specific transfer from the Secretary
of Finance (SEFIN). FHIS estimated the maintenance costs in the poorest municipalities (categories C and
D) for the two years period of the pilot in US$6,000, and proposed that SEFIN covers US$4,000 and
municipalities cover US$2,000. This activity is not Bank-financed.
- 87 -



3.25   In the normative area, the pilot will finance technical assistance to (i) revise FHIS Maintenance
Training Manual according to the new approach; (ii) design and implement mechanisms to supervise
maintenance commitments; and (iii) analyze and propose viable measures to co-responsibilize line
ministries in maintenance. These activities will apply to education and health infrastructure. Municipalities
will inforn to FHIS about works maintenance, and FHIS will supervise municipal fulfillment of
maintenance commitments. An incentive systems to reward good maintenance practices will be designed,
rewarding municipalities with technical assistance to improve revenue generation capacities.
3.26   In the local capacity building area, the pilot will strengthen the monitoring role of the existing
maintenance organizations (ORMAs), and will train local actors in preventive maintenance with community
participation.
3.27   The pilot will have a first stage of two years, starting in 2001. It will operate in the same 30
municipalities of the participatory planning pilot. An evaluation will determine the expansion of the tested
procedures to the rest of the municipalities.
Status of the Design
3.28   The following aspects are ready: Budgeting by Program Manual and corresponding training
materials; Guidelines for the Maintenance Plans. Pending is the development of some training materials, as
well as the incentive system.
3.2.   ImDlementation
3.29   The Director of Municipal Strengthening will be the responsible and coordinator of the three pilots.
All pilots will begin in early 2001. The planning and maintenance pilots will last two years, after which the
tested instruments and procedures will be expanded to all the municipalities. The DOPC pilot will last four
years, and will be divided in two periods of two years.
3.30   The criteria to select the municipalities varies according to the pilot. An estimate of fifty
municipalities will participate in two subgroups, partially overlapping. The first group will be formed by
thirty municipalities participating in the planning and maintenance pilots. This group will be representative
of the four types of municipal categories in which municipalities are classified in Honduras. The second
group will have 30 municipalities participating in the transfer of the project cycle pilot, twenty in the first
stage of two years, and aproximately ten in the second stage. Of this 30, aproximately ten will overlap with
the planning and maintenance group.
Risks
3.31   The main risks involved in the implementation of these pilots relate to the sustained commitment
and institutional capacities needed to carry them out. Delegation of the project cycle and strengthening
municipal and community capacities requires skills that are different to the ones FHIS has accumulated and
where it has proved expertise. Several measures have been taken to minimize these risks. First, contracting
out to specialized NGOs and private finns for technical assistance and training activities will avoid
overburdening FIlS institutional capacities. Second, institutional strengthening of FHIS in strategic areas,
such as the creation of a DOPC Supporting Unit within the Municipal Strengthening Direction, will
provide FHIS the additional expertise required to manage the new tasks. Third, selecting the strongest
municipalities for the DOPC reduces the institutional support that FHIS will have to provide to these
municipalities. Finally, strong stakeholder involvement in design, through the active participation of the
Association of Municipalities, will provide legitimacy and support to the process from the clients side.
- 88 -



3.3.   Evaluation
3.32   An independent firm will conduct an imnpact evaluation by the end of the second and fourth year of
the pilots. The evaluation will include before and after, as well as pilot vs. non-pilot matched comparisons.
Terms of reference will be presented by December 20, 2000. Some of the issues that will be evaluated in
each pilot are:
(i)    Participatory Planning: responsiveness to community priorities, both in positive and negative menu
municipalities; usefulness and ownership of the plans by the municipality and communities; community
ownership of the investments; etc.
(ii)    DOPC: participation of local contractors; implementation time; construction quality; investment
unit costs; creation of municipal capacities to manage FHIS project cycle; local population's perception of
local government's role in improving living conditions; etc.
(iii)   Preventive Maintenance: degree of adoption of budgeting by program; degree of fulfillnent of
maintenance commitments; municipal and community contribution to maintenance costs; municipal and
community capacities to perform maintenance activities; etc.
- 89 -






Presidencia de la Republica
M a pa d e P o b re za                              PARA MEDIR LA POBREZA
_ 9           Dotaci6n de Agua ............... la 40 %
Desnutricio6n........  I...... Id 20 %
Saneamiento Basico . lab 20 %
r             .............                .      . Analfabetismo . lan 20 %
Municipios
=IAceptable    Menor de 25.00
Regular      25.01 - 35.00
m Deficiente     35.01 - 45.00
N               z   2                                   - g Malo       45,01 - 55.00
Muy 1Maio        56.01 -100.00
w       E~i 
W   4E                  - -          PRESIDENCIA DE LA REPUBLICA               hudrse
Fondo Hondureflo de InversiOn Social
S                                               FHIS - 3






BELIZE                           Bo!                                                                                                                                                                                                     BED 31156::i0ig000  );;00i':i0|00050g;'0;'0i' ::g ;g'i'''0')t'i''j''g'0l':2Xr \;'2';ga$;0  'i':4i320('0  '  A920  ;.0   :$    g;RD3
$OCIA 'NVESTM ENT UiNP PROJECTNV
LA BAHIA                                                                                 NUTR    RAt .ES I.
GUATEMALA                      / C                               '                                                                                                                                                            C-ribbean
'-l A                                                                              .                                       - t CORTES_00n
,;   .r   ,> .<b>.}   ,   t    >+             j            .^,  y                         7;7    L~~~~~~~~ENCA/ONILH (pop. 400,000)              9       -                   tr      '
EL SALVADOR                                                                                                                          EZZiYOR
MISKITOI (pop 80,000)
MO                                                                                         GARI_?< 7 FU< X19 '} / NAHOA (pop. 32( 00pop. (2,000)  -
GAREFUNA8_NEGROS D E HA BLA INGLESA 0 CREOLES (pop. 126ord)f
TEGU                                                                       L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENCAHC(PINp. 3, 400 00(~
LENCA/ONRIL pUNSpEGO 400,000                                 MO      km
ON HABLA INGLESA     I
PECH/MISKITOS (ep.p 8
j                                                                                                                    NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EHOTWNA (Ppo. 12,5000)  MXCt  B               aib
NEGRQOS EHBAINLS 0       CREUOAES (pop .4,00
ED HABLA INGUTLMESA                      HNDRAS 
N   I C  A  R  A  G   U  A             E            .    XICAQUESDTOUPANES YLENCA/ONILH          '(       ,,
m  - 8.=  +  |OTHER MUNICIPALITIES
      NATIONAL CAPITAL
PA C i F                 f                                                                                                                         f  t/  f _  1  L . , --Z RIVERS                                             C
MUNICIPALITIES                      :.    PAC                .       >
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                (         f- 
INTERNATIONAL BDUNDARIES                                    ~     ~
8rsb  a   X   86                                                       84E            ;        0,                      . S              IA
,  ,   '  .   '                NOWMBER 2000



