Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3443-HO
Development Credit Agreement
(Fifth Social Investment Fund Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 29, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3443-HO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 29, 2001 between REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project) has requested 
the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the credit provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Credit) to the 
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through October 6, 
1999, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board 
of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of 
goods, if such payment or import, 
to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AMHON” means Asociación de Municipios de Honduras, the Association of 
Honduran Municipalities;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1  to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures for goods, works, consultants’ 
services and training referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d)
“FHIS” means Fondo Hondureño de Inversión Social, the Borrower’s Social 
Investment Fund established pursuant to Decree 12-90,  amended by Decrees Numbers 
153-94 and 166-99;
(e)
“FHIS Guidelines” means the guidelines referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of 
this Agreement as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Association and the Borrower;   
(f)
“FHIS Operational Manual” means FHIS’s manual, dated August 1992 as 
amended through June 1997 , setting forth the rules and procedures for the 
preparation, selection, execution, supervision and monitoring of Subprojects, as the 
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association and the 
Borrower;
(g)
“IHNFA” means Instituto Hondureño de la Niñez y la Familia, the 
Borrower’s Institute for Children and the Family;
(h)
“Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot Municipality” means a 
municipality which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project 
Implementation Plan (as hereinafter defined) for participation in the pilot program 
for decentralized, planning, implementation and sustainability in FHIS financed 
investments under Part B.1 of the Project;
(i)
“Procurement Plans” means the plans referred to in Section I, Part D, 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan referred to in Section 3.03 
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the Association and the Borrower;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
Page  3
(l)
“Rural Water and Sanitation Pilot Municipality” means a municipality 
which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (as 
hereinafter defined) for participation in the pilot program for improved planning, 
implementation and sustainability in FHIS financed investments in water and sanitation 
services in dispersed rural areas under Part B.2 of  the Project;    
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B  of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(n)
“Subproject” means a specific project consisting of one or more of the 
activities described in Parts A.1, B.1 (b), B.2 (b), B.3 (a) and B.4 (a) of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement which meets the criteria set forth in the FHIS Operational Manual, 
FHIS Guidelines and in the Project Implementation Plan; 
(o)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and FHIS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; and
(p)
“Technical Assistance Plans” means the plans referred to in Section II, 
Part D, paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty seven million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR47,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, consultants’ services and training required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
Page  4
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing on January 15, 2011 and ending on July 15, 
2040. Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2020 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the 
Credit shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the 
date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, under 
the Subsidiary Agreement, cause FHIS to carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, health, 
educational, environmental, archeological and managerial practices and according to 
the FHIS Operational Manual, FHIS Guidelines and Project Implementation Plan and shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with FHIS, satisfactory to the 
Association, providing inter alia, for:
(i)
the provision to FHIS of the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required to enable FHIS to 
carry out the Project, including 
the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a grant basis;
(ii)
the obligation of FHIS to carry out the Project in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth in 
this Agreement, in the FHIS 
Operational Manual, FHIS Guidelines, Procurement Plans, Technical Assistance 
Page  5
Plans and in the Project Implementation Plan, including the obligation 
to:
(A)
comply with the provisions of Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(B)
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (related 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project;
(C)
maintain a system, in a form satisfactory to the 
Association, of standard regionalized unit prices 
for goods and 
works for the purposes of contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Section I, Part C, paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and to change such prices in a form 
satisfactory 
to the Association;
(D)
to promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with 
the progress of  the 
Project  or the Subprojects, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, 
or the performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(E)
prepare the reports and plans referred to in Section 3.06 of 
this Agreement; and
(F)
enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association, 
with the Borrower’s Ministries of 
Education, Health, 
Culture, Arts and Sports; and Environment (Secretarías de Estado en los Despachos 
de Educación Pública, Salud Pública y Asistencia Social, y 
Cultura, Arte y Deportes; y de Recursos 
Naturales y 
Ambiente) and  with IHNFA and AMHON, for their participation  in the execution of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not change, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS to prepare, under terms 
satisfactory to the Association: (a) a detailed time bound action plan for 
environmental management and other activities to be carried out under the Project; and 
(b) guidelines to complement the FHIS Operational Manual, including: (i) policies and 
procedures for processing Subprojects (promotion, identification, appraisal, 
contracting, supervision, monitoring and evaluation); (ii) environmental management 
aspects not covered in the Project Implementation Plan; (iii) human resources 
management; and (iv) procurement of goods and services other than those required for 
Subprojects.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall cause FHIS, until completion of the Project, 
to maintain an executive director and other key staff, including an environmental unit 
chief, with experience and qualifications that shall be at all times acceptable to the 
Association, and to consult with the Association with respect to the replacement of 
the executive director or key staff of FHIS prior to any such replacement.
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, and furnish to the Association not later than six months after 
Page  6
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause FHIS to:
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures, acceptable to the Association, to 
enable FHIS to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof in accordance with the Project 
program and performance indicators set forth in the Project Implementation Plan;
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, before the end of April of each year until the completion 
of the Project, beginning in April 2001, a report on the implementation of the Project 
during the preceding calendar year in which the report is furnished to the 
Association, each report to detail: (i) the financial and physical progress of the 
Project; (ii) FHIS’ institutional performance and achievements under the Project; and 
(iii) the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section; and
(c) 
furnish to the Association before November 15 of each year during the 
Project implementation period, beginning in November 15, 2001 a draft of the detailed 
Project operating plan and budget for the succeeding calendar year, satisfactory to 
the Association. 
Section 3.07.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall, and shall cause FHIS to, undertake annual 
reviews of Project implementation with the Association during the month of May of each 
year during Project implementation, beginning in 2001. Such annual reviews shall focus 
on the information provided in the reports referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this 
Agreement, as well as on the results of any other reports.  As part of each such 
review the Association may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, to make adjustments in Project  implementation.  In 
such event, the Borrower shall not later than forty five days after the conclusion of 
each review furnish such plan to the Association and shall thereafter carry out or 
cause FHIS to carry out, such action plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.08.  The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, Subprojects shall be promoted, identified, appraised, carried out and 
monitored in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in the FHIS 
Operational Manual, FHIS Guidelines, Procurement Plans, Technical Assistance Plans and 
in the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.09.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 (a) of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide the necessary funding to cover the 
Borrower’s share of investment costs and the operating costs of Subprojects, when 
applicable, as well as the operating expenses of FHIS.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause FHIS to maintain a financial 
management system, satisfactory to the Association, including records and accounts, 
and to prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for, and in connection 
with, the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
Page  7
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end 
of each such year; (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as so audited; (B) an opinion on such 
financial statements, records and accounts and 
a report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including as part of the information to be 
provided in each such report, a management 
letter concerning the 
Borrower’s internal controls; and (C) an opinion by said auditors on the performance 
of FHIS operations under the FHIS Operational Manual, the FHIS 
Guidelines, the Project Implementation Plan 
and this Agreement; 
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but not later 
than sixty days after the end of the months 
of March, June and 
September of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the quarterly report produced by 
said 
auditors as part of the preparation of the annual auditing report 
described in paragraph (ii) above, of 
such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit 
thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause FHIS to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and to furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for 
such period, which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b) 
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.  
Page  8
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
FHIS shall have failed to comply with its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FHIS during the Project 
implementation period.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after the notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.   The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower 
and FHIS;
(b)
that FHIS has entered into the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (ii) (F) of this Agreement;   
(c)
that the Project Implementation Plan has been issued by FHIS in 
accordance with the provision of Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and
(d)
that the FHIS Guidelines had been issued by FHIS, to the satisfaction of 
the Association.
Section 6.02. The date April 29, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03.  The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Finanzas of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower:
Secretaría de Estado en el
Page  9
Despacho de Finanzas
Tegucigalpa, M.D.C.
Honduras
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
HACIENDA
1308
(504) 238-2309
Tegucigalpa
FINANZAS HO
(504) 237-4142
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By /s/ William Handal Raudales 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Joseph Owen
Resident Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works and goods  
   30,300,000
93%
for Subprojects
(2)
Goods 
      300,000
100% of  foreign
expenditures; and 89% 
of local expenditures  
(3)
Consultants’ services
Page  10
and training
(a)
under Parts A.1,
    5,700,000
100%
B.1 (b), B.2 (b)
of the Project
(b)
under Part B.3 
    4,700,000
100%
of the Project
(c)
under Part B.4
    3,180,000
100%
of the Project
(d)
under other Parts
    2,920,000
100%
of the Project
           TOTAL
   47,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “training” means expenditures (other than for consultants’ 
services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; 
(iii) transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and 
subsistence expenses for such trainees; and (iv) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad.  
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 
4,710,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but not before July 1, 2000.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit 
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Page  11
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000. Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) increase access among the poor segment 
of the Borrower’s population to priority small-scale social and economic 
infrastructure; (b) support and develop social assistance programs for disadvantaged 
groups of the Borrower’s population; and (c) contribute to the sustainability of 
FHIS-supported investments.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects 
1.
Carrying out of projects consisting of small social or economic infrastructure 
Page  12
investments in areas such as water supply and sanitation systems, small-scale 
community and municipal infrastructure (access roads, bridges, markets, culverts), 
education, cultural preservation, health and environmental protection, including 
training in operations and maintenance, throughout Honduras, with the exception of the 
Local Institutional Strengthening Pilot Municipalities territories. 
2.
Provision of technical assistance for carrying out monitoring and evaluation 
activities for the above Subprojects.
Part B: 
Pilot and Special Programs
1. 
Pilot Program for Local Institutional Strengthening:
(a)
Execution of a program to strengthen the responsibilities and capacities 
of communities and local governments to manage the planning, implementation and 
sustainability of FHIS-financed investments; 
(b)
Carrying out of projects consisting of small social or economic 
infrastructure  investments in areas such as water supply and sanitation systems, 
small-scale community and municipal infrastructure (access roads, bridges, markets, 
culverts), education, cultural preservation, health and environmental protection, 
including training in operations and maintenance in Local Institutional Strengthening 
Pilot  Municipalities; and
(c)
Provision of technical assistance for carrying out regular monitoring and 
evaluation activities for the activities in (a) and (b) above.
2. 
Pilot Program to Strengthen Rural Water and Sanitation Services:
(a)
carrying out of a pilot program to develop and test methodologies for 
improving the planning, implementation, and sustainability of FHIS-financed 
investments in water and sanitation services in dispersed rural areas;
(b)
carrying out of small projects for strengthening community and rural 
water systems in Rural Water and Sanitation Pilot Municipalities; and
(c)
provision of technical assistance for carrying out regular monitoring and 
evaluation activities for (a) and b) above.
3.
Social Assistance Innovations Fund:
(a)
carrying out of projects attending the social and economic needs of 
disadvantaged and underserved groups (including, inter alia, at-risk children and 
youth, families in extreme poverty, the elderly, the disabled and ethnic minority 
communities);
(b)
provision of technical assistance to strengthen interinstitutional 
coordination in the social assistance sector, and to improve the capacities of 
providers and potential providers of the activities described in (a) above; and
(c)
provision of technical assistance for carrying out regular monitoring and 
evaluation activities for (a) and (b) above.
4.
Nuestras Raíces (Our Roots):
(a)
carrying out of projects attending to the social and economic needs of 
poor indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities in the Borrower’s territory such as 
rehabilitation and improvement of rural roads and training on commercial and 
agricultural income-generating activities;
(b)
provision of technical assistance to strengthen the organizational and 
productive capacities of poor indigenous and Afro-Honduran communities in the 
Borrower’s territory;
(c)
provision of technical assistance to strengthen the institutional 
capacities of FHIS and other institutions that attend to the social and economic needs 
of poor indigenous Afro-Honduran communities; and
Page  13
(d)
provision of technical assistance for carrying out regular monitoring and 
evaluation activities for (a), (b) and (c)  above.
Part C: 
Project Management
1.
Provision of technical assistance (including training) and equipment to enable 
FHIS to carry out the Project and to strengthen its policies, practices and 
operations.
2.
Provision of external auditing services.
****
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto (preference for domestically-manufactured goods) shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in Part C, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(c)
Procurement of all goods and works under Parts C.1 (a) and (b) above 
shall be carried out using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Association.
2.
International Shopping
Vehicles, computing equipment and other major office equipment estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods (other than vehicles, computing equipment and major office equipment) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
Page  14
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $36,900,000 equivalent, may be procured on the basis 
of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest evaluated bid for the 
required work and who has the experience and resources to carry out the contract 
successfully, on the basis of a methodology approved by the Association and reflected 
in the FHIS Operational Manual, the FHIS Guidelines and in the Project Implementation 
Plan.
5.
Direct Contracting
Works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract and to 
be contracted in areas where the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) and 4 
above are not feasible, may be procured under contracts awarded to qualified and 
certified small contractors in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines, provided, however, that such works are duly identified in advance in the 
Procurement Plans in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (ii) (C) of 
this Agreement.
For this purpose, contractors will be selected with the participation of 
Honduran Municipalities and communities on the basis of qualification and 
certification procedures acceptable to the Association.
These contracts will be priced using unit prices developed by FHIS on the basis 
of a methodology acceptable to the Association, as provided in the FHIS Operational 
Manual, FHIS Guidelines and Project Implementation Plan.
6. Community 
Participation
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 of this Part C, 
goods, and works required for parts A and B of the Project with an estimated cost of 
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with other 
procedures acceptable to the Association, as set forth in the FHIS Operational Manual, 
FHIS Guidelines and Project Implementation Plan.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
FHIS shall submit Procurement Plans to the Association for its review before the 
end of June and December of each year during the Project implementation period in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works for each subsequent six month period 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such Procurement Plans as shall have been 
reviewed by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
A.
With respect to: 
(i)
each contract for goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
more, to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts B and 
C.1 (a), of this Section; and
(ii)
each contract for works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or 
more and the first two contracts for works 
in each calendar year, 
regardless of their cost, to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 (b) 
of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraph 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  15
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part E:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following principles and rules of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in Part C 1 (a) and 
(b) of Section I of this Schedule.
(a)
Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bid in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the bidding documents, and without taking into account, in the 
evaluation, the financial cost of foreign exchange components.
(b)
Foreign bidders shall not, as condition for submitting bids, be required 
to:
(i) 
be registered in Honduras;
(ii) 
have a representative in Honduras;
(iii)  be associated with Honduran suppliers or contractors; or
(iv)
certify that, in their country of origin, Honduran suppliers or 
contractors are allowed to participate in 
competitive bidding 
procedures under equal conditions with other bidders.
(c)
Contracts shall not be divided for the sole purpose of reducing contract 
amounts.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency published by the Bank in January 
1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services for Subprojects under Part B.3 of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.2 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, or similar procedures acceptable to the Association, as set 
forth in the FHIS Operational Manual, FHIS Guidelines and the Project Implementation 
Plan.
2.
Least Cost Selection
Services for external auditing under Part C.2 of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  16
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.  
Services for design and/or supervision of Subprojects, for capacity-building, 
and for Subproject evaluation, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4..
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
FHIS shall submit Technical Assistance Plans to the Association for its review 
before the end of June and December of each year during the Project implementation 
period in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services for each subsequent six 
month period shall be undertaken in accordance with such plans as shall have been 
reviewed by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Part E:
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following principles of procurement shall 
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in Section II of 
this Schedule:
(a)
Foreign consultants shall be permitted to participate in the selection 
process even if there is availability of Honduran consultants for the services being 
procured.
(b)
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be registered with Honduran 
associations or to be associated with Honduran consulting firms as a condition for 
participating in any selection process.
