Report No. 413a-PA                                                                      FILE  Copy
ANppraisal of the Small Farmer Credit
and Rural Development Project
Paraguay
July 17, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00      a % 126
% 1.00       = US$0.008
% 1,000      = US$ 7.94
%      1,000,000  - US$7,937
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AASHO    - American Association of State Highway Officials
BNF      -  Banco Nacional de Fomento
CAH      -  Credito Agricola de Habilitacion
CAPPS    -  Comision de Administracion de Puerto Presidente Stroessner
CB       -  Central Bank
CNPS     -  Consejo Nacional de Progreso Social
COMDESA  -  Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo, .A.
IAGS     - Institute of Aerial Geographical Survey
IBR      -  Instituto de Bienestar Rural
IGM      -  Tnstituto Geografico Militar
IICA     -  Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias Agricolas
MAG      -  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPC     - Ministry of Public Works
NASA     - National Aeronautics and Space Administration
ONPS     - Oficina Nacional de Progreso Social
PPA      - Agricultural and Livestock Promotion Program
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........................    i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION  .      ........... .......... ............  1
II.   BACKGROUND ..............                               2
A.  General  ....................................       2
B.   Land Reform and Rural Development  ..........      3
C.   Agricultural Credit  ........................      5
III.  THE PROJECT  ........      ....................... ........ .    7
A.   Definition    ....   .......................... ...  7
B.   Detailed Features  ............ ........           9
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing  .............. .    13
D.   Procurement and Disbursement        ...............   14
IV.   PROJECT ADMINISTRATION ..........................   15
V.   BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (BNF)        .................   17
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND SUB-BORROWERS' BENEFITS      24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  .....      .................   25
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS       ...........   26
SCHEDULE A
The report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Paraguay in
October 1973, consisting of Messrs. K.W. Berg, J.J. Bazo, D.N.S. Evans,
D. Parbery, A. Uhlig (Bank), B. Bilbo, P. Borrowman and R. Crofts (Consultants).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Background
2.   Land Reform and Rural Development
3.   Production and Marketing of Commodities to be Financed
under the Project
4.   Banco Nacional de Fomento - Project Cash Flow
5.   Disbursements Estimate
6.   Agricultural Credit in Paraguay
7.   Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
8.   Banco Nacional de Fomento - Balance Sheets (Actual and Projected)
9.   Banco Nacional de Fomento - Condensed Income and Expenditure
Accounts (Actual and Projected)
10.   Rural Development Investments to be Financed under the Project
11.   On-Farm Investments to be Financed under the Project
12.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return
MAPS



PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development
Project for which an IDA credit of US$11 million equivalent is proposed.
The credit would support a three-year lending program of the Banco Nacional
de Fomento (BNF) for short-term working capital and long-term investments
to benefit small farmers in three public settlement colonies in the Eastern
Region of Paraguay: Mallorquin, Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner. The
credit would also help finance basic infrastructure investments for rural
development in the above colonies which would consist of: (i) the purchase
of an earthmoving unit for the construction of 250 km of earth roads; (ii)
the construction of bridges and culrerts for earth roads; (iii) the construc-
tion of 60 km all-weather roads; (iv) the construction of 26 primary schools
providing 102 classrooms; (v) the construction and equipment of two health
centers together with the provision of equipment for an already built health
center; and (vi) the construction of three community centers. About 2,000
small farmers would benefit from the lending program; a total of about 7,000
families, some 42,000 people, would benefit directly from the rural develop-
ment investments. The credit would be to the Republic of Paraguay with
Government bearing the exchange risk.
ii.       In addition to three livestock credit projects, the Bank Group
has made one loan for agriculture to Paraguay: Loan 55-PA for US$4.5 million
net of cancellation for agriculture and road building machinery, and equipment
in 1951. The First Livestock Project was financed through a US$3.6 million
Credit in 1963 (47-PA), followed by the Second Livestock Project through a
US$7.5 million Credit in 1966 (86-PA) and the Third Livestock Project through
a US$8.6 million Credit/Loan in 1969 (156-PA/620-PA). Project execution
under all three Projects was satisfactory, although the third is about one
year behind schedule. However, all funds,have now been committed. A Fourth
Livestock Credit Project for a Bank Loan of US$10 million equivalent has been
appraised and processed simultaneously with the Small Farmer Credit and Rural
Development Project.
iii.      Agriculture, including livestock and forestry, is the most import-
ant sector in Paraguay's economy. It provides 91% of all exports and meets
93% of domestic consumption for agricultural products. Imports of agricul-
tural products make up for 11% of the country's import bill. Livestock pro-
ducts account for most of the exports, but for only 30% of the sector's pro-
duction, while crops make up 58%; the remaining 12% being provided by
forestry. This shows the relative importance of the crop sub-sector within
agriculture where about 60% of the country's active labor force is employed.
iv.       Paraguay is only sparsely populated (average 6 per km ) and there
are still large areas covered with heavy forest. Government has provided
20 ha plots to settlers in the Eastern Region where soil and rainfall for crop
0



- ii -
production is satisfactory. However, rural development in these public settle-
ment colonies has been inadequate, particularly in respect of roads, schools,
health centers and technical assistance. The proposed Project would help to
correct these deficiencies and, if successful, would provide the basis on which
the development in other rural settlement areas could be planned.
v.        The Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) is the dominating lending in-
stitution for the crop sub-sector, providing 82% during 1969-72 of all
institutional credit and it would administer the credit program under the
Project, Government would on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit for the
credit program to BNF at 5% interest and for 20 years including 5 years of grace.
However, BNF, which is Government owned, is in serious financial difficulties
due mainly to some 170 large loains made under the national grain program which
are in default, and because of irnsufficient capital resources. Therefore,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would provide
BNF with more capital and cause BNF to make a drive to collect a substantial
amount of the outstanding debt, particularly under the national grain program.
vi.       The Project account for the proposed lending program would be kept
separate from BNF's other lending operations and would be audited by external
auditors. Government would provide the counterpart funds for the lending pro-
gram, and for infrastructure investments. Total Project costs are estimated
to total US$15.8 million equivalent. IDA would finance US$11 million or 70%;
Government would contribute US$3.9 million or 24%; and sub-borrowers the
balance, US$0.9 million or 6%. IDA's contribution would cover the estimated
foreign exchange component--US$7.1 million or 45%--and US$3, 9 million or 25%
local currency expenditures which is justified on country grounds.
vii.      Procurement of the items to be financed under the small farmer
lending program would be through normal commercial channels, since the range
of items to be financed is very diversely spread over a four-year investment
period and unsuitable for bulk procurement. Construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, schools, and health centers would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the guide-
lines for procurement under Bank/IDA loan/credits. Civil works would be
grouped into contracts insofar as possible in order to make practicable the
participation of international contractors. The earthmoving equipment for
construction of earth roads and vehicles for technical staff would also be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding. The construction
of three commun~ity centers and furnishing of schools, and health and community
centers would be awarded on the basis of local bidding since the amounts
involved would not attract firms from outside Paraguay.
viii.     The financial rate of return has been estimated at 35% for small
farmers benefitting from the lending program. The economic rate of return
including the lending program, the road construction component and the
technical assistance measured against the benefits expected from the lending
program (leaving aside the costs for schools, health and community centers)
would b! 13% which is satisfactory. During negotiations appropriate assurances
were obtained, providing a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$11 million
equival nt under normal IDA terms.



PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank economic mission that visited Paraguay in October 1971
included two members analyzing the agricultural sector (Messrs. E. Riezebos
and P. Peperzak). They identified a Project for the development of small
farmer settlement colonies in the Eastern Region of Paraguay. This Project
was prepared by two FAO/CP missions which visited Paraguay in May 1972 and
April 1973. The Project would include farm credit and rural development such
as roads, schools, health centers, and technical assistance. An IDA Credit
of US$11 million is recommended.
1.02      In addition to three livestock credit projects, the Bank Group
has made one loan for agriculture to Paraguay: Loan 55-PA for US$4.5 million
net of cancellation for agriculture and road building machinery, and equipment
in 1951. The First Livestock Project was financed through a US$3.6 million
Credit in 1963 (47-PA), followed by the Second Livestock Project through a
US$7.5 million Credit in 1966 (86-PA) and the Third Livestock Project through
a US$8.6 million Credit/Loan in 1959 (156-PA/620-PA). Project execution
under all three Projects was satisfactory, although the third is about one
year behind schedule. However, all funds have now been committed.  A Fourth
Livestock Credit Project for a Bank Loan of US$10 million equivalent has been
appraised and processed simultaneously with the Small Farmer Credit and Rural
Development Project.
1.03      The Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project now proposed
would assist exclusively small farmers in three public settlement colonies.
It would support Government efforts for an integrated program to develop these
colonies with emphasis on production and social development by providing farm
credit, extension services, roads, schools and health and community centers.
The Project would serve as a model to be extended to other settlements in the
country at a later date.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Paraguay in October 1973, consisting of Messrs. K.W. Berg, J.J. Bazo, D.N.S.
Evans, r. Parbery, A. Uhlig (Bank), B. Bilbo, P. Borrowman and R. Crofts
(Consultants).



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
Area, Population and Land Use
2.01      Landlocked Paraguay has an area of about 407,000 km  (Maps) and a
population of some 2.4 million. Thus, the average population density is only
about 6 per km2. The Paraguay River divides the country into two regions:
the flat drier Western Region, or Chaco, with low and variable rainfall
(about 700 mm per year) and the more humid (about 1,500 mm) Eastern Region
with flat to rolling topography. The Chaco, comprising about three-fifths of
the country, is a vast, sparsely populated, poorly drained alluvial plain
covered with semi-arid tropical forest and grassland which has no alternative
use to extensive livestock production under present conditions. On the other
hand, Eastern Paraguay, covering two-fifths of the country and containing
about 90% of the population and most of the crop land, has belts of dense
tropical rain forest. About three-fifths of the cattle population is concen-
trated in the Eastern Region, while the larger Chaco contains the balance,
two-fifths. Of the total land area, only slightly more than 2% or. about
1 million ha is used for crop production. Another 37% or 15 million ha is
grassland, 59% or 24 million ha in forest and 2% or 1 million ha is declared
urban or waste land.
The Economy
2.02      Despite a satisfactory growth of the economy at the rate of 4.6%
per annum during the 1962-72 period, Paraguay's per capita GDI remains low,
about US$315 equivalent in 1972. However, growth accelerated over the
1969-73 period when it averaged 5.5% per annum. The main contribution to the
improved performance came from the agricultural sector, including livestock
which in the 1960s barely kept pace with population growth (2.6% per annum)
but generated substantial surpluses during 1969-72 period. About 62% of the
total income is concentrated within the upper 20% income bracket of the
population, while the share of the lowest 20% income bracket is only about
4%. Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index during the 1960s, was
low but, as in many countries, it has now become a problem, accelerating to
iC% a 1972 and 13% in 1973; wholesale prices, however, rose faster during
the year (33%) (para 5.14).
Agriculture in the Economy
2.03      The country continues to depend on agriculture which contributes
31% to GDP, followed by commerce and finance with 25%, and manufacturing and
mining with 17%. In 1972, agricultural production was made up of 58% from
the crop sub-sector, 30% from livestock and 12% from forestry. The sector



- 3 -
provided 93% of domestic demand for agricultural products and, in addition,
accounted for an exportable surplus of US$78 million, or about 91% of the
country's total exports. Imports of agricultural products comprise about
11% of the country's total import bill. The sector employs 60% of the total
labor force. In terms of output, the sector's performance in both crop and
livestock production has improved considerably in the course of the last
decade, increasing its average annual growth rate from 2.5% between 1962-1970
(crops 2.9%; livestock 1.9%) to an average growth rate of 4.3% for the period
1969-1972 (crops 4.8%; livestock 3.3%). The most important crops are corn
(226,000 tons production), soybeans (104,000 tons), sugarcane (1,248,000 tons),
cassava (1,734,000 tons), tobacco (18,000 tons), bananas (251,000 tons), cotton
(35,000 tons) and sweet potatoes (149,000 tons).  Most of the production
increase has come from new areas planted with wheat, rice, soybeans and sugar-
cane, rather than increased yields which have tended to stagnate or decline.
The most important export crops are tobacco, vegetable oils, oilseeds, essential
oils, cotton and coffee which together accounted for 86% of crop exports. Due
to increases in both volume and prices the value of exports originating from
the crop sub-sector has grown in recent years at an annual rate of 18%. Major
agricultural imports are wheat and wheat flour.
2.04      The livestock industry is based primarily on an estimated 4.5 mil-
lion head of cattle, 0.6 million pLgs and 7 million poultry. Slaughtered
cattle contribute almost half of the livestock sub-sector's output, while
pigs contribute about one-fifth. Cattle slaughtering has not risen signifi-
cantly since 1968 and the livestock sub-sector's increase in output is due
mainly to an increase in pig and poultry production, but there has probably
been a buildup of the cattle herd. About 87% of livestock exports are beef
which have been growing in value by 24% annually between 1968 and 1972, due to
both an increase in volume, at the expense of domestic consumption, and rising
prices. Dairy ?roducts are the only significant livestock imports (Annex 1).
B.  Land Reform and Rural Development
2.05      Land distribution in Paraguay is uneven.  About 96% of the total
number cf farms are of less 100 ha in size and 61% are of less than 10 ha.
Moreover, 60% of these small units (10 ha) are concentrated in the area south
of Asuncion known as the "minifundia" zone which covers less than 4% of the
total land area.  At the other extreme, 76 extensive livestock ranches each
larger than 25,000 ha in the Chaco, but including much unusable land, together
with 106 holdings of more than 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region, account for
more thea 14 million ha, or 36% of the whole country. More than half of rural
farm operators do not have definitive title to the lands they are working, and
those without titles are, in the main, small farmers.  About 29% of all Lands
is still state-owned, but most of it lies in the Chaco, with limited agricul-
tural potential since there is at present no economic justification for tneir
use for zrop production. Extensive livestock operation will prevail in those
areas in the foreseeable future.



-4-
2.06      In an attempt to imprcve the land tenure structure, an Agrarian
Statute was enacted in 1963 which, codifying much previous legislation, made
provision for: (i) the expropriation of part of large holdings (latifundia)
exceeding 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region and 20,000 ha in the Chaco on which
the permanent improvements represent less than 50% of the land value; (ii) the
prevention of the further fra,mentation of minifundia and their amalgamation
into viable units; (iii) colonization on both public and private lands; and
(iv) the regularization of leasing and share-cropping agreements and of the
position of "squatters."
2.07      The Institute of Rural Welfare (Instituto de Bienestar Rural--IBR)
was created at the same time to implement these reforms. An autonomous
agency with its own budget, IBR is a multi-purpose institution combining in
effect the functions of a Ministry of Lands, an Agrarian Reform Institute,
a Land Settlement Authority and a Land Mortgage Bank. Its policy has been to
avoid recourse to expropriation (since sufficient State-owned virgin land was
available), and to concentrate on the legalization of squatters and establish-
ment of colonies on acquired and unused State lands for settlers coming from
the over-crowded minifundia areas and for Paraguayans returning from Argentina
and Brazil. Since its inception end up to September 1973, IBR has established
248 public colonies involving the settlement of over 40,000 families on 2.8
million ha of land. During the same period, 17,000 families have been settled
on 0.7 million ha (mostly in the departments bordering Brazil) under private
colonization schemes approved by IBR under the terms of the Agrarian Statute.
Before IBR came into being, Government had (between 1908 and 1962) settled
45,000 settlers on 0.9 million ha in 170 colonies. Thus, there are now in
Paraguay a total of over 400 settlements on 3.7 million ha and some 60
privately settled colonies on 0.7 million ha. Average plot size in the
Eastern Region is 20-25 ha and in the Chaco 1,500 ha (Annex 2).
2.08      This massive movement of population has relieved the pressure on
the minifundia areas, where the number of holdings of less than 10 ha is
estimated to have failen by 13% between 1961 and 1971, and, together with
the new highways, has assisted in the opening up of the country. But because
of the restricted resources and organizational? weaknesses of the institutions
involved (IBR, BNF and Ministry of Agriculture), the settlers have not received
sufficient back-up services, financial support and technical assistance to
enable them to rise much above a subsistence level of production (Annex 3).
2.09      In the period 1962 to 1972, IBR issued 40,000 titles covering over
2 million ha contributing significantly to a reduction in the proportion of
squatters from 45% in 1961 to 29% in 1971. In IBR colonies, however, many
unauthorized and unrecorded changes of occupan$s have taken place and confusion
often e,ists as to the extent of a settler's outstanding debt to IBR for the
purchase of his plot so that only a small proportion of settlers have defini-
tive tifles thus limiting their access to institutional credit.
0



- 5 -
2.10      Rural infrastructure in the colonies is generally rudimentary.  As
a result of poor original alignment, many feeder roads are no longer usable,
thus adding to marketing difficulties. As IBR has been able to provide few
social services, settlers have frequently had to make good the deficiencies
(e.g., building "private" schools) in advance of coverage by the Government
health, education and other services. Similarly, community development is
largely unassisted until the colony has grown large enough to be incorporated
as a "municipio" into the official administrative structure.  The proposed
Project (Chapter III) would be a first step to solve these problems through
an integrated approach by providing both social services (health, education)
and production incentives (credit, infrastructure, technical assistance).
2.11      Rural Services.  Agricultural research is carried on by both
the Ministry of Agriculture and the National University at Asuncion, which is
also responsible for higher education in agriculture. Research programs have
concentrated on varietal introduction, resulting in the testing of a large
range of crops and selection and multiplicatioi of environmentally suitable
types.
2.12      The Agriculture Extension Service has a staff of 80 technicians
(agronomos) and 47 field offices, giving a country-wide coverage of one
officer to 2,500 farmers. Many extension agents are of good calibre but are
restricted by lack of transport. In the colot:ies, some extension workers are
also provided by IBR but these too lack trans;Drt and are required to perform
colony administrative tasks.
C. Agricultural Credit
2.13      General.  Institutional credit to the agricultural sector in Para-
guay is provided by the banking system and, to a minor extent, by a small
farmer credit institution and a development finance corporation. A reportedly
substantial but unquantifiable amount of non-institutional credit is provided
by traders and agricultural produce merchants.
Institutional Credit
2.14      Framework.  The Central Bank (CB) controls the banking system which
consists of the State-owned Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and 10 commercial
banks. In addition, CB provides lending funds through the Fondo Ganadero (FG),
using IDA and IBRD funds. FG is now the principal source of long-term credit
to the 'ivestock sub-sector, holding by the end of 1972 a portfolio of 0 2,352
million (US$18.7 million).  A number of non-bank financial institutions, in
particular, the State-owned Credito Agricola de Habilitacion (CAH) and a
privately-owned development corporation Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo
(COMDESA), are subject to certain provisions of the General Banking Law and
to the control of CB.
0



-6-
2.15      Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) is by far the most important source
of credit to the agricultural sector. In 1972, it granted loans for agri-
cultural purposes (excluding livestock) totalling 0 1,542 million (US$12 mil-
lion) which represented 69% of total bank credit extended to the sub-sector
during the year, compared to 82% during the 1969-72 period. BNF is discussed
in Chapter V and Annex 7.
2.16      Commercial Banks.  Of the 10 commercial banks operating in Paraguay,
eight are affiliates of foreign banks. All have their principal offices in
Asuncion where there are 27 branch offices. There are 26 branch offices
located at 14 towns outside the capital. Historically, the commercial banks
have been reluctant to finance investments in agriculture because of what
are considered to be unduly high risks. There has been some increase in
lending for agricultural production purposes since mid-1972 when improved
prices for agricultural produce made such lending more attractive but it has
been essentially of a short-term nature and highly selective. In March 1972,
CB required banks to restructure their lending portfolios so that 5% would
comprise loans to agriculture. Effective interest rates for agriculture range
from 12% to 22%. The effective cost of such funds to the banks is between
8.6% and 12%. Commercial bank lending to the agricultural sector (excluding
livestock) in 1972 amounted to 0 683 million 'US$5.4 million) compared with
0 383 million (US$3.0 million) in the previout year. The 1972 lending to
agriculture represented 3.3% of the banks total lending during the year but
the year end balance of loans outstanding to the agricultural sector (excluding
livestock), amounting to 0 515 million (US$4.1 million), formed 6.1% of the
commercial banks total lending portfolio.
2.17      Credito Agricola de Habilitacion (CAH) provides short-term (six to
eight months) production credit to members of newly-formed farmers' associa-
tions at an interest rate of 9% per annum plus a 2% commission fee. Loan
disbursements increased from 0 2.9 million (US$23,000) in 1969 to 0 31.3
million (US$248,000) in 1972.
2.18      Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo, S.A. (COMDESA), a private develop-
ment bank, finances investments in development-oriented projects including,
where necessary, feasibility studies and technical assistance. At December 31,
1972, COMDESA had approved financing for 103 projects totalling 0 476 million
(US$3.8 million) of which 35% was for agriculture and livestock and 33% for
agro-industries. More than 70% of COMDESA loans are of long-term (five to
10 years) maturity while the remainder are for medium-term (two to five years).
Interest rates are fixed at 10% per annum for loans expressed in US dollars
and 12% per annum for loans expressed in Guaranies.
2.19      Non-Institutional Credit.  The incidence of non-institutional credit
provided by shop-keepers, agricultural input suppliers and produce merchants
is reported to be a serious obstacle to the recovery of seasonal credit
granted to small-scale agriculturalists. It is the practice for entrepreneurs
who have advanced credit to farmers, either in the form of subsistence goods



-7 -
or farm inputs, to visit farms at harvest time and collect their dues in the
form of produce, usually at below market prices. To obviate the ill-effects
of this system, which substantially reduce farm incomes, it would be neces-
sary for sub-borrowers, under the proposed Project, to be provided with suffi-
cient seasonal credit to avoid using expensive non-institutional credit.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
3.01      In the past, Government policy has concentrated on settling the
maximum numbers of colonists on unused public land in order to relieve
the pressure on land, particularly in the minifundia areas, and to assist
in opening up the country. The subsequent development of both the farms
and the settlement areas has largely been left to the farmers themselves.
There is, however, a growing realization that more must be provided by way
of infrastructure, technical assistance and credit if the settlers are to
increase their output and raise their standard of living above the present
low levels. As a first step in this direction, the Consejo Nacional de
Progreso Social (CNPS) (para 4.01) with assistance from UNDP and UN Special
Agencies mounted in 1972 a five-year integrated development program covering
23 IBR colonies on the "northern axis" (Eje Norte) in the San Pedro Department
of the Eastern Region. The emphasis in this program is on social and community
development, but experience to date suggests that because of the lack of
complementary finance for roads and on-farm investment and because the effort
is spread too thinly over a wide area, only limited results have been achieved.
The proposed Project would be the first attempt at colony rehabilitation in
Paraguay that combined productive investment in roads (essential for improved
marketing), increased supervised credit and technical assistance with improve-
ments in social infrastructure (schools, health and community centers) in a
relatively concentrated and accessible area. The Project area has been
limited to three colonies and/or 7,000 families because the proposed invest-
ments required in those colonies are considered an appropriate project size
to be successfully executed by the available administrative capacity within
Paraguay. The importance of the Project lies not only in its own relatively
limited targets, but also in the lessons that could be drawn from its experience.
If successful, the pattern of this Project could well be repeated at a later
date in many of the existing colonies both public and private (more than 400
in total) which are in need of similar investments and assistance.
3.02      The Project area would be three public settlement colonies, i.e.,
Mallorqtin, Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner (ex-Pastoreo), situated in the
Eastern Region of Paraguay. The Project would: (i) include a lending
program over a three-year commitment period to about 2,000 small farmers, or
40% of -11 farmers in the settlements as a first step, for on-farm invest-
ments ard working capital; (ii) provide finance for the purchase of an
* arthmoNing unit for the construction of about 250 km of earth roads, the
construction of bridges and culverts for these earth roads, and the construc-
tion of about 60 km of all-weather roads; (iii) provide schooling facilities



- 8 -                                              9
for farmers' children through the construction of about 26 primary schools
providing some 102 classrooms; (iv) make available better health facilities
by constructing two health centers together with the provision of equipment
for an already built health center; and (v) construct three community centers.
3.03      The Project would be administered by the Consejo Nacional de Progreso
Social (CNPS)--a ministerial coordinating organization (para 4.01). Each
ministry or institution would carry out and be responsible for the component
coming under their jurisdiction. The Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) would
carry out the farm credit program (Annex 4); the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG) would provide technical assistance; the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR)
would be responsible for land tenure matters. Total Project cost is estimated
at 0 1,996 million (US$15.8 million) to which IDA would contribute 0 1,388
million (US$11 million) which would be the equivalent of 70%. Local contri-
bution would consist of 0 494 million (US$3.9 million) or 24% from Government
and the. balance would come from sub-borrowers, amounting to 0 114 million
(US$0.9 million) or 6%.
3.04      The three Project colonies established some 10 years ago have been
selected by Government for consolidation out of a total of some 248 public
colonies settled by IBR since 1963 (para 2.07). They are situated close to
the highway linking Asuncion with Brazil and cover some 83,000 ha, containing
about: 7,000 families and a combined population of about 42,000, some 7,000
of whom live in the colonies urban centers and 35,000 in the rural areas.
3.05      The following table shows the estimated Project cost:
Typical       No. of       Total              Cost per
Size of      Sub-loans    Sub-    Total         Sub-       Total
Sub-project  Made in Years  loans   Area        project      Cost
1    2    3             …-----0 0ooo ----…
On-farm
investments  10 to 20 ha  400  800  800  2,000  30,000 ha    362/farm   724,500
Incremental
working
capital      10 to 20 ha  400  800  800  2,000  30,000 ha    210/farm    420,900
Roads           310 kin       -    -    -      -  87,000 ha   2,071/km       642,072
Schools       4 classrooms   -    -    -       -  26 schools  5,260/school 136,747
Health                2
centers        210 m         -    -    -      -  3 centers   8,357/center  25,072
Commun-.ty           2
centers        200 m         -    -    -      -  3 centers   5,202/center  15,605
Vehicl0is     4-wheel drive  -    -    -        -  50 vehicles   513/vehicle 25,663
Project;
coordinator               -       -     -               -          -5000
To,tal:                400  800  800  2,,000     000 ha                1,995,559



9-
3.06      About 2,000 small farmers would receive long-term on-farm invest-
ment credit and short-term working capital c edit. Those 2,000 farmers together
with 3X000 other small farmers in the three olonies would benefit from rural
development investments in roads, schools, health centers and community centers,
and from technical assistance provided by the Ministry of Agriculture and from
the accelerated issue by IBR of titles to their land. Furthermore, a team of
three UNDP financed experts would provide technical assistance in marketing,
credit and agronomy (para 3.19).
B. Detailed Features
3.07      Colony Description.  Farm development in all three colonies is re-
markably uniform. A process of fragmentation has reduced the original plot
sizes (mainly 20 ha and 25 ha) to an average of 17 ha, with an estimated 80%
of existing plots in the range 10-20 ha. Most farmers have cleared by hand
about 5 ha to comply with settlement regulations; labor and capital constraints
prevent them from clearing and cultivating more land. Practically all farmers
grow maize, cassava and beans, mainly for subsistence or for feeding livestock
as well as a variety of cash crops, including cotton, tobacco, soybeans and
vegetables. Yields are low because farmers use little fertilizer or improved
seed and their cultivation practices are primitive. Many farmers keep a few
animals, mostly work oxen or cattle on natural pasture, with pigs and poultry.
Animal disease control is rudimentary and there are considerable disease
problems (parasitic cattle diseases, swine feve- and Newcastle poultry disease).
3.08      The low productivity of the settlement farms is mainly a reflection
of the paucity of the colony infrastructure and a general lack of-supporting
services. Less than one-third of the farmers have clear title to their land;
most of the remainder do not know the amount of their outstanding indebtedness
to IBR. Many changes of occupancy and sub-divisions of plots have taken place
and renain unrecorded in IBR records at Asuncion. Lack of land titles (para
4.05) to offer as security, coupled with the shortage of funds in BNF, h.s
meant that only a small proportion of farmers has been able to obtain insti-
tutional credit either for on-farm investment or for seasonal production
needs. During the period 1962 to 1971, BNF lent a total of only 0 96 million
(US$762,000) in the three Project colonies benefitting some 360 settlers per
year with loans averaging 0 38,000 (US$301). In 1972, however, the number
of loans made increased to 940 for a total of ¢ 25 million (US$198,000).
Lending during the first nine months of 1973 indicates that the amount lent
during the year and farmers benefitted will show a sabstantial increase over
previouts years. BNF has a branch at Caaguazu serving Repatriacion and
Genera: Stroessner colonies and a sub-branch in the Mallorquin colony.
3.09      Technical assistance is provided by three extension agents frco.
the Mi:4istry of Agriculture (one in each colony), supplemented by six IB,
extens on personnel who, however, also have colony administrative duties.
*i Insuff cient technical back-up, transport deficiencies and poor roads severely
limit  he present effectiveness of the extension effort in the colonies.



Because of faulty original alignment, poor construction and lack of maintenance,
the feeder road system in all three colonies has mostly degenerated into tracks.
This is a major factor contributing to the marketing problems of the settlers,
which in turn are a disincentive to increased production. At present, there
are 59 primary schools (14 of them private) operating in the three colonies
but over one-third of these are in bad condi ion.  There is a small health center
in Mal:.orquin and health posts in the other two colonies. These educational
and health facilities are much below the minanum needs of the colonies and the
failure to supply adequate rural infrastructural services underlies the
present stagnation of the settlers' output.
On-farm Investment Credit and Working Capital
3.10      About 2,000 small farmers would receive long-term investment credit
and short-term credit to cover working capital costs. Farmers in the Project
colonies each have some 10 to 20 ha of land which they have occupied for five
to 10 years. However, only about 5 ha of holding, on average, has been
partially cleared with logs and trunks left on the ground. Cultivation
practices are still quite rudimentary and mostly by hand. Investments would
be mainly for purchase of draft animals and some cows (37% of investment),
cutting and burning of forest (19%), establishment of pasture and fences (21%),
purchasing farm equipment and erecting storage (23%). Total investment per
farm would be about 0 330,000 (US$2,600). In addition, farmers would require
a total of about ¢ 190,000 (US$1,500) of incremental working capital to cover
costs of seeds, fertilizers, insecticides and cultivation. It is expected that
an ave'rage farmer benefitting from long-term credit and technical assistance
would clear about another 5 ha of forest over a two-year period and bring it
under cultivation, including 1 ha of pasture. This would increase his
cultivated area from about 5 ha to 10 ha, including 3.5 ha of pasture. Thus,
benefitting farmers occupying some 30,000 ha of land would bring about 10,000
ha of additional land under agricultural use. Crops to be grown are mainly
maize, cassava, cotton, soybeans, tobacco and vegetables (Annex 11).
Roads
3.11      Rainfall throughout the year quickly converts unengineered roads
into tracks impassible to wheeled transport. The road program has been devised
to provide a balance between the short-term need for maximum length of access
road built to the lowest acceptable standard and the long-term requirement
that funds expended on this Project make a substantial contribution to the
future improvement and extension of the road network. The road program would
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (MOPC) and would be
divided into three elements (paras 3.12 to 3.14) all of which would be designed,
planned, controlled and supervised by a firm of Consulting Engineers appointed
by MOP2 and acceptable to IDA and implemented simultaneously in the three
colonies. Assurances were obtained on this matter.



*                                      -i11-
3.12      First Element:  Earth Roads.  About 250 km of earth roads would be
constructed by MOPC staff assigned in cooperation with the Consulting Engineers
and using earthmoving and ancillary plant (referred to as the earthmoving unit)
to be procured under the Project. However, all operational costs of this unit,
which would be solely used for the construction and maintenance of roads in
the Project area, would be borne by Government and included in special annual
additional budget appropriations, and during negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government to this effect. These roads would be fully engineered
and designed for progressive stage construction from the outset but only the
first stage would be constructed under the Project. This stage would include
the minimum of earthworks and drainage compatible with acceptable performance
standards and would provide a 5 m wide carriageway on a 7 m wide formation.
Other standards would be proposed by the engineers after detailed survey of
the roiltes (Annex 10, para 27). Earth roads would be located so that the
distances between the farthest farm plots and an earth road would be as nearly
as possible the same in all areas. The Project cost of this element is
estimated at 0 96 million (US$762,000) and the operating costs of the earthmoving
unit at 0 53 million (US$420,000) per annum.
3.13      Second Element:  Bridges and Culverts for Earth Roads.  The Project
would finance the construction of timber bridges (4 m wide) and precast
concrete pipe culverts (full formation width) along the 250 km of earth roads
to be built by the earthmoving unit. This work would be undertaken under a
single contract covering all three colonies and awarded through international
competitive bidding. The estimated Project cost of this element is 0 138
million (US$1.1 million).
3.14      Third Element:  All-weather Roads.  A total length of 60 km of all-
weather road would be financed by the Project covering all three colonies.
This would provide a 10 km link between Repatriacion and Caaguazu Township
and a 3 km link between Pastoreo Township and the highway. The remaining
47 km 'qould be distributed between the three colonies so that dry-weather
access between the farthest farm plots and an all-weather road or the highway
is of as nearly equal length as the colony layouts allow. These roads would
be fully engineered and would provide a 5 m wide stone or gravel pavement
of not less than 0.15 m thickness on a 7 m width of formation. Other
standards would be proposed by the engineers after detailed survey of the
routes (Annex 10, para 27). The Project cost of this element is estimated
at 0 216 million (US$1.7 million).
3.15      The total Project cost for the road program is thus:



- 12 -
First Element  -- earth roads (250 km)         0  96 million
Second Element -- bridges and culverts for
earth roads (250 km)        0 138 million
Third Element  -- all-weather roads (60 km)  0 216 million
Contingencies                             ¢ 192 million
Total Project Cost 01/  642 million (US$5.1 million)
Schools
3.16      The provision of primary schools is essential to the development
of the colonies and the Project would finance the construction of a total of
26 schools, or 102 classrooms (working in two shifts, each classroom accommo-
dates 2 x 40 = 80 children), together with the necessary ancillary facilities
and furniture. The schools would be distributed throughout the colonies so
that student walking distance would not exceed about 3 km each way. The total
estimated Project cost of the schools program is 0 137 million (US$1.1 million).
Health Centers
3.17      The Project would include the construction of a new building (210 m2)
at Repatriacion and of a similar one at General Stroessner (ex-Pastoreo), both
would be furnished with basic equipment, water supply and an electric generator.
Funds would also be provided for specialist medical equipment for these two
centers and the one already constructed in Mallorquin. The construction work
would be undertaken by contract (para 3.24) and supervised by the Minister of
Health through his Architectural Department. The Ministry's standard building
specifications and suitably adjusted standard block layouts would be used.
The estimated total Project cost of the health program is 0 25 million (US$0.2
million).
Community Centers
3.18      The Project would finance the construction of a permanent building
(200 m2) in each of the three colonies comprising a meeting room, one large
and two small offices, a washroom and a large covered open-sided area which
would provide the focal point for larger meetings and social functions. Funds
would also be provided to purchase office equipment and three two-channel
radio transmitter-receiver sets operated by 12 volt wet battery. During the
develojment phase, these centers would be used as offices by the Project staff.
The Miiistry of Public Works would be responsible for the construction which
would se undertaken by contract (para 3.24) and designed and supervised by
the Ccnsulting Engineers for the road program. The estimated total Project
cost cf providing these facilities is 0 16 million (US$124,000).
1/   This excludes the operating costs of the earthmoving unit, estimated
at 0 53 million (US$420,000) per annum.



- 13 -
Technical Assistance
3.19       The Project would be supported by three UNDP financed experts in
credit, marketing and agronomy to provide technical assistance for MAG, IBR
and BNF to train, coordinate and supervise the field work of technicians of
the resrective institutions (para 4.06). A Government request to UNDP has
been mace. The Project would finance a project coordinator (para 4.06).
Provisicn for the financing of 50 four-wheel drive vehicles has been made
under the proposed credit. These vehicles would be used exclusively by
technicians working in the Project colonies. Assurances were obtained on
this matter.
C. Cost Estimates and Financing
3.20       Total Project cost is estimated at e 1,996 million (US$15.8 million),
of which ¢ 896 million (US$7.1 million) or 45%, would be foreign exchange.
Cost estimates and foreign exchange requirements are:
Foreign
Lendin& Categories   Local  Fgn   Total   Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange
d       million -----   -----US$ million-    % ---
On-farm investments    529    196          725     4.2      1.6       5.8       27
Working capital          316    105        421      2.5     0.8       3.3       24
Roads                    191    451        642      1.5     3.6       5.1       70
Schools                  34    103         137     0.3      0.8       1.1      75
Health centers           11      14         25     0.1      0.1       0.2       55
Community centers         11      5         16     0.1       -        0.1       30
Vehicles                   3     22         25      -       0.2       0.2       90
Project coordinator        5     -           5      -        -         -        -
Total:           J,100    896      1,996      8.7      7.1      15.8      45
The cost estimates for infrastructural investments (roads, schools, health
centers and community centers) include 10% allowance for physical contingencies.
Price contingencies have been calculated at the following cumulative rates both
for local and foreign exchange cost: civil works, 18% in 1974, 15% in 1975
and 12% thereafter; equipment, 14% in 1974, 11% in 1975 and 7.5% thereafter.
Finan c i:
3.21       The total Project cost, amounting to e 1,996 million (US$15.8
million' would be financed as follows: sub-borrowers would contribute ¢ 114
rmillion (US$0.9 million) or 6% of Project cost; Government would contribute
¢ 494 m.llion (US$3.9 million) or 24%; and IDA would finance the balance,
* 1,388 million (US$11 million) or 70%, which would be tJS$3.9 million more
than th, estimated foreign exchange component (45%).  This would be justified
on coun-ry grounds. The financing for individual components of the Project
is summ rized in the following table:



- 14 -
Sub-                                       Total
Lending Categories  borrowers        Government       IDA      Project Cost
------------------- (in 0 million) ----------------
On-farm investments    72                145         508            725
Working capital         42               102          277           421
Roads                    -               191         451            642
Schools                  -                41          96            137
Health centers           -                 7           18             25
Community centers        -                 5           11            16
Vehicles                 -                 3           22            25
Project coordinator      -                 -            5             5
Total:            114               494       1,388          1,996
% of Total:         6                24          70            100
3.22      Government would be the borrower and bear the foreign exchange
risk. Government would finance through annual budget appropriations the
various ministries for the local contributions required, i.e., 30% of rural
infrastructure investment cost. These would amount in total to: ¢ 191
million for roads; 0 41 million for schools; ¢ 7 million for health centers;
0 5 million for community centers; and 0 3 million for vehicles. Furthermore,
Government would provide the MiniEtries of Public Works, Education and Health
with sufficient funds to cover operating and maintenance costs of items
constructed under the Project (para 4.06). Assurances were obtained on these
matters.
3.23      For the Project's lending program, to be administered by BNF, Gov-
ernment would relend to BNF the Guarani equivalent of the IDA Credit (0 785
million), received for Project lending, at 5% interest and for a period of
20 years including five years of grace. BNF would credit this amount to a
Project account to be established with BNF. In addition, Government would
provide to the Project account 0 228 million as an equity contribution to
BNF as outlined in para 5.13. Rollover benefits accruing to the Project's
accourt would be used for further lending for similar purposes. A Project
Agreement would be entered into between IDA and BNF. A subsidiary loan
agreement between Government and BNF, satisfactory to IDA, would stipulate
the interest rate to be charged and accruing to BNF, and the repayment of
Lhe Guarani equivalent of the IDA Credit to Government. Assurances were
obtained on these matters.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.24      The items to be financed for on-farm investment and working capital  C
for the approximately 2,000 sub-borrowers over the four-year investment period V
are varied and would not be suitable for bulk procurement through international



- 15 -
competitive bidding. Construction of all-weather roads, bridges and
culverts, for both all weather and earth roads, schools and health centers
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with the guidelines for procurement under Bank/IDA loan/credits.
Civil works wvould be grouped into contracts insofar as possible in order to
make practicable the participation of international contractors. The Paraguayan
construction industry is dominated by firms from nearby Brazil and Argentina,
but thcse have often established subsidiary companies with local participation.
Earthmoving equipment for construction of earth roads and vehicles for technical
staff w'ould also be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
The construction of the three community centers (total cost US$124,000 equiva-
lent and furnishing of schools, and health and community centers (costing some
US$140,000 equivalent) would be awarded on the basis of local bidding since
the amounts involved would not attract firms from outside Paraguay. This
would hopefully encourage development of the local industry.
Disbursement
3.25       With BNF's commitments for on-farm investments extending over three
years, the disbursements by BNF wqould be spread over about four years and
IDA disbursements are expected to spread over four and a half years. IDA
wvould disburse against statement of expenditures 78% of the amount disbursed
by BNF for on-farm investments. For short-term working capital sub-loans,
IDA would disburse 78% of the amount disbursed by BNF during each of the first
ttwo half years after the Credit Agreement and the same percentage of incre-
mental lending during subsequent half years. The documentation for such
expenditures would not be submittedl to IDA for review but would be retained
by BNF and made available for inspection by IDA during the course of super-
vision missions. Sub-loans for both on-farm investments and working capital
would represent up to 90% of total cost. For the purchase of road building
equipment and vehicles, IDA would, against appropriate documentation, disburse
against CIF cost; for the construction of all-weather roads, bridges and
culverts for both, all-weather and earth roads, schools, health centers and
community centers, IDA would finance 70% of construction costs. A schedule
of estimated IDA disbursement is given in Annex 5. In the event, the expend-
itures under any category provided for should decrease, the amount of the
credit allocated to such category and no longer required could, at the request
of the borrower, be reallocated to another category; otherwise it would be
cancelled.
IV. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
4.01       The Project would be carried out by different ministries each
responsible for the component coming under its jurisdiction. Roads and
community centers would be built by the Ministry of Public Works, schools by
the ilinistry of Education, and health centers by the Ministry of Health;
extension would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, land
t titling of the IBR and credit of BNF. Government's Consejo Nacional de



- 16 -
Progreso Social (CNPS) would coordinate the operations of the various institu-
tions involved in the Project. CNPS--an interministerial organization on which
IBR and BNF are also represented--was established by Presidential Decree in
1967, but did not have its own executive office until 1972. Since that date,
it has inter alia been responsible for planning and supervising the execution
of the integrated program of rural development in 23 public colonies in the
Eje Norte (para 3.01), in which UNDP and various UN Special Agencies are
participating and which is now in its se:ond year of operation. Its experience
in this type of integrated program, as well as its interministerial character,
makes CNPS the most suitable Government coordinating agency for the Project.
To provide the necessary link between policy and operations, CNPS would appoint
a project coordinator, acceptable to IDA, who would prepare annual programs
to implement the Project. After those programs and the related special budget
allocations to cover the contributions of the institutions concerned had been
approved, the project coordinator would supervise their execution. His respon-
sibilities and authorities would be as outlined in Schedule A. During nego-
tiations assurances were obtained on this matter.
4.02      Field Coordination and Implementation.  The project coordinator
would reside in the Project area so as to ascertain that Project execution
for the different parts are progressing according to plan and intervene at
ministerial level whenever necessary to ensure proper execution. While the
roles of the Ministries of Public,Works, Education and Health would initially
be confined to construction, the involvement with the farmers to improve
their productivity through extension, credit and promoting farmers associa-
tions or cooperatives would be immediate. For this purpose, the project
coordinator would have the services of three UNDP-financed experts who would
assist in extension, credit and marketing/cooperatives.
4.03      Agricultural Credit.  More than half of Project funds would be
for agricultural credit. BNF's role would be highly important and is
discussed in Chapter V.
4.04      Technical Assistance.  Government is seeking UNDP assistance to
finance three expatriate technicians in the fields of agronomy, marketing
and credit to work under the proposed Project. Working under the project
coordinator, the agronomist and the marketing specialist would guide the
activities of MAG extension agents, particularly in the preparation of farm
development plans for those seeking investment credit, and in the promotion
of farmers' cooperatives for supply of inputs and the marketing of produce.
The credit expert would give technical guidance to BNF branch managers and
agents, especially in the appraisal, supervision and recovery of loans to
be made by BNF under the proposed Project. All three technicians would be
required to live in the Project area and to train counterpart officers
during their assignment.
4.05      The Ministry of Agriculture would provide extension agents (five in
each cDlony) and supply them with vehicles to give technical assistance to
Project beneficiaries. One of the agents assigned to each colony would be a V
veterinarian (Annex 11, para 15). IBR would increase its staff to five in



-'17 -
each of the colonies and provide them with vehicles to expedite the marking
out of individual plots, the issue of titles to settlers and the collection
of debts for land purchase. Government would be responsible for providing
administrative staff for the project coordinator and the three UNDP-financed
technical experts, and for the supply, operation and maintenance of their
transport, and for the maintenance of the community centers which, during
the development phase, would be used as offices by the Project staff. The
vehicles required, together with those for BNF and UNDP Project staff, would
be financed out of the Credit. During negotiations assurances were obtained
that Government would follow the administrational procedures as outlined in
paras 4.01 through 4.05 above.
Post Development Period
4.06      At the end of the Project investment period, settlement development
should have reached the stage when special coordination and support is no
longer required. In this case, the roles of CNPS, the project coordinator
and the technical experts would terminate, and full responsibility for the
supply of technical and supporting services would revert to the ministries
and agencies. The operating arrangements outlined above should ensure
continuity of staffing. The builctings erected in each colony to serve as
Project offices in the development phase would be transferred to the local
administration for use as community centers. Government would be responsible
for maintaining and staffing the roads, schools, health and community centers
once they have been constructed. Those costs are estimated to be annually
as follows: (i) earthmoving unit 0 53 million; (ii) all-weather roads ¢ 15
million; (iii) schools ¢ 30 million; (iv) health centers 0 14 million; and
(v) community centers ¢ 1 million. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that Government would meet these costs.
V. BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (BNF)
General
5.01      More than half of Project cost would be for on-farm investments and
incremental working capital and the lending program included would be most
important for the success of the Project. BNF would be responsible for this
part of the Project, and due to its importance for institutional credit
in general and for the Project in particular, it is described below in more
detail. BNF, a Government-owned autonomous entity under the authority of the
Ministry of Finance, was established in 1961 following the closure of the
Bank cf Paraguay. Its stated objectives are "to promote and finance general
programs and specific projects to develop agriculture, livestock, forestry,
industry and commerce" (Annexes 6 and 7).



- 18 -
Administrative Council and Management
5.02      BNF is governed by an administrative council comprising a president
and seven members. The president, who is BNF's legal representative, is ap-
pointed by the President of the Republic with the agreement of the state council
for a period of five years. The other council members are appointed in the
same way but for a three-year term. They are from the Ministries of Finance,
Agriculture and Industry and Commerce, from the Central Bank and three repre-
sentatives from the agricultural, livestock and industrial sectors. The
council is responsible for formulating BNF policy and regulations and for the
approval of programs, budgets and accounts. Each of the banking departments
(para 5.03) is headed by a director who is required to attend all meetings
of the administrative council. Mannagement at the technical level is good and
so are the defined policies and procedures, but the policies of the admin-
istrative council have been subject to political interference which has led
at some times to unsound lending, resulting in large loans in default,
particularly under the national grain program.
Organization and Operation
5.03      BNF has three separate banking departments:  Commercial and Savings;
Development; and Agriculture and Livestock. It has also an Administrative
Department which provides accounting and administrative services for the banking
departments. The banking departments, each of which has its own share capital
and for which separate accounting systems are maintained, are each responsible
for specific aspects of the functions of a multipurpose development bank. The
Agriculture and Livestock Department provides investment and seasonal credit
to crop and livestock farmers mainly under various programs partly financed by
external agencies. The most significant of these programs, both in terms of
volume of lending and of its impact on BNF finances, is the national grain
program which was initiated by Government in 1966 to increase local production
of wheat and feed grains. Under this program, which was partly financed from
USAID credits, BNF made large loans for up to 100% of project cost to mainly
absentee land owners ostensibly to provide seasonal and investment finance for
grain production.  For a number of reasons (explained more fully in Annex 7),
there has been a massive default on these loans and, at the end of FY/72, BNF
transferred delinquent accounts amounting to 0 1,473 million (US$11.7 million)
together with overdue interest of 0 391 million (US$3.1 million) owing by 104
borrowars, to a special account in the name of the Government. Repayments
and loan rescheduling reduced the amount of national grain program loans
outstaiding on Government account to 0 1,682 million (US$13.3 million) at
DecembZr 31, 1973 comprising principal of ¢ 1,323 million (US$10.5 million)
and in-erest of 0 359 million (US$2.8 mfllion). However, the Government has
stated that it is not prepared to accept responsibility for these loans
maintaining that BNF should increase its efforts to collect the outstanding
debts !ither by rescheduling the loans or by foreclosure (para 5.12).
.



5.04      A more successful scheme administered by the Agriculture and Live-
stock Department has been the Agricultural and Livestock Promotion Program
(PPA) for small farmers which has been partly financed by three IDB loans
totalling US$16.9 million. During the 10 years ended December 31, 1972, BNF
grante1 about 38,000 loans amounting to 0 3,800 million (US$30 million) under
the PPA of which one-third was for seasonal credit and two-thirds for on-farm
investments. Average sub-loan size was about 0 100,000 (US$790). Interest
rates on loans made under the PPA are 9% per annum and there is a once-only
commission charge of 1% of the loan. IDB is presently considering a new
loan to BNF amounting to about US$8 million of which US$6 million would be
earmarked for agriculture, mostly to small farmers. It is proposed that
Govern ent would repay the loan to IDB on behalf of BNF, and that those IDB
funds received by BNF would be transferred into equity. The loan would also
include technical assistance to BNF to help strengthen the institution. IDB
has also approved recently a technical assistance grant for US$24,000 to BNF.
5.05      The Agriculture and Livestock Department departs from BNF's general
policy of lending only to farmers with land titles in the case of loans to
small farmers, particularly settlers, made under specific agreements with
Instituto de Bienestar Rural (IBR) and Credito Agricola de Habilitacion (CAH)
and to a few cooperatives which are being developed by AID financed technical
assistance. Under the IBR agreement, BNF makes loans to settlers in specified
colonies secured by IBR guarantee.
Staffing
5.06      Staff at December 31, 1972 totalled 832 of whom nearly half had less
than five years' service with BNF. The staff, although generally of good
calibre, is too large, particularly at the head office, in relation to BNF's
activities. Furthermore, the large majority comprises accountants and clerks
while there are insufficient technical staff to give adequate coverage to
borrowers in the agricultural sector. At the end of 1972, BNF employed only
17 veterinarians, of whom 14 were seconded to work with Fondo Ganadero, 37
agricultural graduates and 27 agricultural technicians. Staff salaries are
similar to CB and private banks and are higher than those paid by Government
and semi-Government agencies for comparative levels of work.
Branches
5.07      BNF has a network of 21 branches and 16 sub-branches widely spread
throuEhout Paraguay. The Project area is served by a branch at Caaguazu and
a sub-branch at Mallorquin which is under the direct authority of the Asuncion
head cffice.
Resouices
5.08     i3BF's resources COE-.icSe 1L    ic.-i-ic Capital; sight, term and
savin s deposits from the public anQ private sectors; 'Loans and re-discounts
from (B and loans and credits from external conm rcgal sources and inter-
natioral agencies.  The authorized capital is 0 25600 million (US$20.6 million)



-20-
of which 0 400 million (US$3.2 nillion) is allocated to the Commercial and
Savings Department, 0 1,000 million (US$7.9 million) to the Development
Department and_ 1,200 million (;JS$9.5 million) to the Agriculture and Live-
stock Department. Paid-in capital at December 31, 1973 was 0 1,523 million
(US$12 million) with 0 247 million (US$2.0 million) held by the Commercial
and Savings Department, 0 576 million (US$4.6 million) by the Development
Department and 0 700 million (US$5.6 million) by the Agriculture and Live-
stock Department. Paid-in capital, which is wholly owned bv Government, has
been subscribed from assets of the defunct Banco del Paraguay, interest
payments on laans made by that bank, exchange charges on imports and 20% of
the annual profit made by CB.
Use of Resources
5.09      BNF provides annually around 17% of all bank credit in Paraguay but
the volume of its lending to the agricultural sector, excluding livestock,
during the four-year period 1969-1972 consti:uted 82% of the total. Its year
end portfolio of loans outstanding to the non-livestock agricultural sector
rose from 0 2,804 million (US$22 million) to 0 4,804 million (US$38 million).
BNF's portfolio to the non-livestock agricultural sector was always more than
90% of total bank loans outstanding to the sector. This reflects the longer
maturity period of BNF loans compared to those of the commercial banks.
Financial Situation
5.10      BNF's financial situation is weak due substantially, but not entirely,
to the large amount of resources tied up in delinquent national grain program
loans amounting to 0 1,323 million, or US$10.5 million, principal (para 5.03).
Delinquent loans (i.e., loans containing principal repayments overdue by more
than 30 days) in the remainder of the portfolio totalled ¢ 1,234 million
(US$9.8 million) representing 15% of the portfolio (excluding national grain
program loans) at December 31, 1973. Including the national grain program
loans, delinquent accounts at the same date amounted to 0 2,557 million
(US$20.3 million) representing 26% of BNF's total portfolio. The December 31,
1973 arrears position showed a very slight improvement (in percentage terms)
over the previous year as follows:
As at December 31
1972    %      1973    %
…-    million 
National Grain Program Loans overdue        1,473  17.4    1,323  13.5
Loans in remaining portfolio containing
principal repayments overdue by more
that 30 days                              1,112  13.2    1,234  12.6
Balance of remaining portfolio              5,883  69.4    7,258  73.9
8_468 100.0    9, ;,5 100.0



-2x-
The Commercial and Savings Department had 31% of its portfolio in arrears,
the Development Department 14% and the Agriculture and Livestock Department
9% (excluding national grain program loans transferred to Government account).
With this substantial proportion of its resources tied up in overdue loans,
BNF has increasingly resorted to borrowings to finance its lending activities.
5.11      The ratio of long- and medium-term debt to equity at December 31,
1973 was 3.7:1 compared with 3.6:1 at the end of 1972 and 2.9:1 at the end
of 1971. The liquidity ratio at December 31, 1973 was slightly negative at
1:1.04, with current assets of ¢ 3,318 million (US$26.3 million) 4.8% below
current liabilities (excluding short-term CB financing) of 0 3,478 million
(US$27.6 million). The cost of borrowing, while relatively low at an average
annual rate of 5.6%, was equal to 192.8% of BNF's operating earnings, includ-
ing interest and commission, in 1973 as against 91.4% in 1972. Total operating
costs increased by 22% while operating income fell by 25% in the year ended
December 31, 1973 resulting in an operating deficit of 0 234 million (US$1.9
million) compared with an operating surplus of ¢ 37 million (US$0.3 million)
for the year ended December 31, 1972. The large operating deficit incurred
in 1973 was offset by the transfer to Government account of 0 318 million
(US$2.5 million) in respect of losses incurred by the Agricultural and
Livestock Department as provided for in BNF's organic law (Law 281), resulting
in a net surplus for the year of 0 24 million (US$193,000) compared to ¢ 10
million (US$80,000) in 1972. Unless BNF is able to reduce its overdues
drastically and, in addition, obtain an increase in its equity capital, its
liquidity will be further impaired and it will have to curtail substantially
its lending activities. Recovery of a substantial part of its outstandings
would help improve the liquidity position and permit further lending while
an increase in the paid-in capital would, by reducing the need for external
borrowing and thus, the overall cost of funds, enable BNF to retain a greater
portion of its operating income (Annex 9).
5.12      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the following
measures, aimed at improving BNF's financial position, would be taken:
(i) Government would make available to BNF additional paid-in
capital of not less than ¢ 150 million (US$1.2 million) per
year during the 1975-1979 period. Such capital contributions
would include the Government's equity contribution as outlined
in para 5.13, and any IDB disbursements, provided they have
been transferred to BNF's capital as outlined in para 5.04.
Cash flow projections indicate that this is the minimum amount
that would be required to enable BNF to sustain its lending
program. In addition, unless the prior consent of IDA is
obtained, BNF's liquidity ratio (defined as the ratio of
assets recoverable within 12 months to liabilities maturing
within 12 months, excluding short-term financing from CB)
would not be permitted to be less than 1.1:1 and its debt/
equity ratio (defined as the ratio of its outst4nding debts
of more than one year's maturity to the total of its pai6-
up equity capital plus free reserves) would not exceed 4.; ,



-22-
(<i)  Government would make payment to BNF for all debts owing by
ministries to BNF. Such debts totalled 0 55 million
(US$0.4 million) at December 31, 1972;
(i:-i) BNF would strengthen its collection division under the authority
of a senior officer to be responsible for and to actively
pursue the collection of debts owing to BNF by all possible
means including legal action. Government would give its full
support to BNF's debt collection activities and, in particular,
to a concerted effort to recover grain program loans in arrears.
The collection division would recover not less than 20% of
grain program loans outstanding at 1./31/72 (amounting to
0 1,473 million) within 12 months of the signing of the
Credit Agreement. At this time (12 months after the signing
of the Credit Agreement) BNF would present a plan of reccivery,
acceptable to IDA, to collect the remaining outstandings on
grain program loans by not later than May 28, 1983 in respect
to principal, and by not later than May 28, 1988 in respect
to interest. In addition, BNF would within 12 months of the
Credit Agreement present, acceptable to IDA, a plan of
recovery of other arrears to reduce such arrears to not
more than 10% in relation to the portfolio of each banking
department within 24 months after the signing of the Credit
Agreement; and
(iv) BNF would raise its interest rate for all its lending, both under
the Project and other lending, from the present level of 9% to
12% per annum, within one month after effectiveness.
The payment of 0 55 million would be a condition of effectiveness.
Project Lending
5.13      To assure sufficient lending funds for the proposed Project
assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (i) Government would
make available to BNF's Project account as a contribution to the proposed
lending program and as an equity contribution to BNF: 0 30 million (US$0.2
million) within three months of the Credit Agreement; 0 30 million (US$0.2
willion) within 12 months; 0 60 million (US$0.5 million) within 24 months;
¢ 60 million (US$0.5 million) within 36 months; and ¢ 48 million (US$0.4
million) within 48 months; and (ii) BNF would use funds from the Project
account exclusively for lending in the Project area and would lend only funds
from the Project account in the Project area during the disbursement period
of the Credit.
5.14      BNF's Agriculture and Livestock Department is adequately equipped
to adulnister sub-loans to Pro4ect beneficiaries through BNF offices at
Caagu,.zu and Mallorquin.  Working in conjunction with MAG extension agents,
BNF staff would assist sub-loan applicants in the preparation of detailed



*
w                           ~~~~~~~~ ~~23
investment programs including farm plans, income and expenditure estimates,
and cash flow projections and would appraise all sub-projects in terms of
incremental returns and BNF would appoint 15 technicians for this purpose.
Sub-lcans would be made for working capital for up to one year and for invest-
ment financed for a period of five to 10 years including up to two years of
grace. BNF would finance up to 90% of farmers' cost and charge an interest
rate ef 12% annually to cover :ts administrative, financial (para 3.23) and
technical costs and the financial risk. This is considered adequate (Annex 4).
Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index during the 1960s, was low
but, as in many countries, it has now become a problem, accelerating to 10%
in 1972 and 13% in 1973; wholesale prices, however, rose faster during
1973 (33%). The consumer price index was influenced by controlled beef
prices which were in effect for the October-December period; prices on the
free market were considerably higher. Beef price controls for local con-
sumption have been removed since, and the consumer price index is likely
to accelerate in 1974, also due to other factors such as oil prices (para
2.02). Assurances have been obtained on these matters during negotiations.
Accounts and Audit
5.15      Separate accounts are maintained for each Department of BNF and
later consolidated. Accounts are well kept but statistical information is
inadequate and information on such matters as arrears only becomes available
after the close of the financial year. By the end of 1972, the Administrative
Department had computerized depos3its, current accounts and personnel salaries.
The Adninistrative Department wi:l take over the loan accounts when additional
equipment becomes available which was expected in early 1974 and should result
in the ready availability of much more statistical information. Internal au-
diting is done by BNF's audit section which is located at the head office in
Asuncion and has a staff of 15. External control is exercised by the Super-
intendent of Banks and the accounts are audited annually by the reputable
Argentinian firm of Harteneck, Lopez y Cia. In view of BNF's strained
financial position, sub-loan lending and debt recovery under the Project
would ze closely supervised. The Project account would record Project
operations and would be subject to a quarterly audit by a firm of external
auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit process would include a reasonable
number of spot checks of sub-loans in the Project area and would ensure that
sub-loan repayments are returned to ,xae Project account. Certified quarterly
accounts would be submitted to IDA Snrough CB within six weeks of the end of
each qiarter. Accounts in the Min.-stries of Public Works, Education and
Health which are relevant to Projz-t execution would also be audited to
standa:ds acceptable to IDA and       auditors reports would be sent to IDA
within four months of c               -                nego.iatiors assurances
were o3tained on this matter.



-24-
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND SUB-BORROWERS' BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Incremental production generated from on-farm investments and short-
term working capital by about 2,000 benefitting small farmers would be mainly
annual crops such as seed cotton (3,000 tons), maize (3,000 tons), cassava
(42,COO tons), soybeans (5,000 tons), tomatoes and other vegetables and some
beef (1,100 tons). In addition, the Project would produce some beans, sun-
flowe-s, carrots, potatoes, onions, tobacco, garlic, mint, petit grain (ex-
tracted from orange leaves) and pork. The incremental output of cotton,
maize, cassava, soybeans and beef would correspond to about 6%, 1%, 3%, 5%
and 1%. of the national production in 1972 respectively.
6.02      Overall, the Project would improve the economic and social in-
frastructure in the colonies for some 42,000 people including 5,000 farmer
families. They would benefit from investments in the road system (60 km of
all-weather roads and 250 km of earth roads), rural health centers (2), schools
(26) iud community centers (3).
Marketing and Prices
6.03      Crops such as maize, cassava and beans are mostly produced for sub-
sistence or sold for consumption within the colonies, or they are used for
animal" feed, also within the colonies. The marketing of cotton, soybeans
and beef is somewhat more developed and about half of the incremental output
would be absorbed by the domestic market and the remainder exported. Farmers
in the three Project colonies would be in a relatively favorable position,
since investments in roads would facilitate transport to the main asphalt
highway which links the colonies with the Brazilian border as well as with
Asuncion, the major consumption center and river port. The existing intdus-
trial facilities are adequate to handle additional production requiring
processing.
6.04      Farm-gate prices have been steadily rising since 1971, in many cases
reflecting world market trends. It is Government's policy to support agri-
cultural production by maintaining producer prices at reasonable levels for
crops for which there is a strong internal or external demand. Implementation
of this policy remains, however, uneven. While, especially since 1971, pro-
ducer prices provide sufficient incentives to farmers to make the proposed
investments, as indicated by the financial rate of return, there have been
great seasonal and annual fluctuations in producer prices, with a marked de-
cline at the time of harvest because of a lack of storage facilities. The
road improvements suggested, together with technical assistance provided to
farmers, as well as Government efforts to enlarge storage facilities, are ex-
pectec to provide the farmers in the Project colonies with satisfactory market *
conditions, assuring adequate and relatively stable prices.                          W



- 25 -
Sub-borrowers' Benefits
6.05      An estimated total of 42,000 people, including 5,000 small-farm
families, live in the three Project colonies. All would benefit from the
proposed rural development improvements such as roads, schools, health centers
and community centers (Annex 10). About 2,000 farmer families would receive
on-farm investment and working capital credit. On the basis of investment
costs, yield and price assumptions, an illustrative farm model (Annex 11),
has been worked out to analyze the financial benefits expected from different
items to be financed under the proposed Project. The financial rate of return
would be 35%. This is considered to be very satisfactory, assuring incen-
tives to prospective investors under the Project. To test the sensitivity
of the financial return against varying production costs, or prices, or volume
of production, alternative assumptions have been made such as reducing the
"best estimate" of farmers' gross income by 15%. The financial rate of return
would then drop to 16%. A 20% rise of on-farm investment costs with all other
costs and all income remaining unchanged would reduce the financial rate of
return to 29%, which would still be very satisfactory (Annex 11). The annual
farmer's total income per family (including subsistence) would increase from
M 110,000 (US$873) to 0 252,000 (US$2,000). These returns should provide
sufficient incentives to farmers to make the intended investments.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The IDA credit would enable BNF to provide about 2,000 small farmers
in-three Government settlement colonies with adequate short-term working
capital and long-term investment credit. Such farm credit would be super-
-viged by BNF technicians and farmers would receive technical assistance
through extension officers from the Ministry of Agriculture and three UNDP-
financed experts in the fields of credit, marketing and agronomy. Further-
more, IBR would provide settlers with land titles and help them on other
tenure problems such as marking the boundaries of each plot and collection
of their payments for the land.  Assuming an average farm family of six, some
12,000 people would directly benefit from farm credit, mainly by extension of
t'he 6'cIItivated area through forest clearing and improvement in production by
purchasing draft oxen to replace cultivation by hand.
7.02      Furthermore, the Project would finance rural development by improv-
ing the road system and developing education and health and community facili-
ties. This portion of the Project, however, would benefit the whole popula-
tion of the three Project colonies, i.e., some 42,000. Additionally, an esti-
mated 18,000 people living in neighboring colonies would also benefit margin-
ally from the rural development investments.
7.03      The lack of working capital and investment credit, technical
assistance, land titles and basic rural infrastructure has limited improve-
*       ment in production standards and kept farmers very close to subsistence levels.



- 26 -                                        0
Most of the cleared land is still cultivated by hand, without draft oxen, and
more than half of the farm land is still under heavy forest awaiting clearing
for agricultural production. The proposed Project would be a first step to
help small farmers in Government settlements. There are over 400 of such
settlements of small farmers and, if successful, the Project would lend itself
for multiplication in other areas which have similar credit a;nd rural develop-
ment problems. While the Project would not create a large number of new jobs,
it would reduce considerably the seasonal underemployment of the small farmers
benefitting from the Project.
7.04      The economic rate of return for the lending program has been cal-
culated on the basis of projected world market prices, plus an allowance for
transportation costs for the major agricultural products expected to be pro-
duced under the Project (Annex 12). It is very difficult to measure the
benefits which would result from the rural development investments proposed
to be financed under the Project, particularly for health centers, community
centers and schools. Investments in infrastructure would amount to some
US$775 equivalent per family or about US$129 per head. If the portion of
the road construction Project component were to be added to the credit and
technical assistance portion of the Project and measured against the benefits
expected from the lending program (leaving aside the costs for schools, health
and community centers), the rate of return would be 13% which is satisfactory.
Considering that provision of health facilities for 60,000 inhabitants and
schools for some 8,000 children would have a very positive effect on economic
development in the colonies, it can be concluded that the Project in total
would have a satisfactory economic return to the Paraguayan economy.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points that Government would:
(i)  cause MOPC to appoint a firm of Consulting Engineers,
acceptable to IDA, to be responsible for design, planning,
control and supervision of the road component of the
Project (para 3.11);
(ii)  bear the foreign exchange risk (para 3.22);
(iii)  provide MOPC, the Ministries of Education and Health with
sufficient funds to cover 30% of investment cost and all
operating and maintenance costs of the items to be con-
structed under the Project (paras 3.22 and 4.06);
(iv) cause:
(a)  BNF to administer the Project's lending program and
appoint 15 technical Project staff (paras 4.01 and 5.14);



-27-
(b)  MOPC to administer the road component of the Project (para 4.01);
(c)  the Ministry of Education to adiiinister the school component
of the Project (para 4.01);
(d)  the Ministry of Health to administer the health component
of the Project (para 4.01);
(e)  IBR to provide farmers with titles to their land and collect
outstanding debts and for this purpose appoint 15 technical
Project staff (para 4.05); and
(f)  MAG to provide technical assistance by appointing 15
Project technicians (para 4.05);
(v) strengthen BNF and make payments to BNF as outlined in para 5.12;
(vi)  enter into a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to IDA with
BNF, and provide to the Project account in BNF funds as outlined
in paras 3.23 and 5.13 -- 0 30 million of which would be paid-in
at the beginning of the Project; and
(vii) make CNPS responsible for project coordination and cause
CNPS to appoint a project coordinator, acceptable to IDA,
with the responsibilities and authority as outlined in
Schedule A.
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that:
(i)  BNF, IBR and the Ministry of Agriculture had each appointed
15 technicians in the Project colonies (para 8.01 (iv));
(ii)  Government had made payments to BNF of not less than 0 55
million for debts owing by ministries to BNF (para 8.01 (v));
(iii)  Government had paid 0 30 million to the Project account within
BNF and had entered into a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable
to IDA, with BNF (para 8.01 (vi));
(iv)  Government has entered into a subsidiary Loan Agreement with
BNF, satisfactory to IDA (para 8.01 (vi)); and
(v)  CNPS had appointed a project coordinator acceptable to IDA
(para 8.01 (vii)).
8.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$11 million equivalent under normal IDA terms.
July .17, 1974






Schedule A
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Role and Functions of the Project Coordinator
1.        The Project Coordinator would be required to reside in the Project
area.
2.        The main functions of the Project Coordinator would be to:
(a)  prepare the annual programs for carrying out the Project;
(b) furnish the annual programs to CNPS for approval and the
National Council of Economic Coordination and IDA for
information;
(c) ensure that BNF and IBR make a separate and identifiable
financial allocation in their annual expenditure budget
to cover the agreed total cost of their contribution in
that year to Project development, including operational
and maintenance costs, and coordinate all action to be
taken on behalf of MAG, MOPC, and the Ministries for
Education and Health to make financial allocation in
their annual expenditure budgets;
(d) direct and control the subsequent implementation of the
agreed program;
(e) countersign all expenditures eligible for IDA reimbursement
which would originate with the ministry or institution
concerned.
(f) prepare quarterly progress reports for the information of
CNPS,, the National Council of Economic Coordination and
IDA; and
(g) act as the channel of communication with IDA.
S       July 17, 1974






ANNEX 1
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Background
A. General
GeograDhical
1.        Bisected by the tropic of Capricorn, Paraguay is a landlocked
countrg in the heart of the South American continent bordered by Argentina,
Bolivia and Brazil. It covers the middle reaches of the Paraguay river and
is bounded on the east and south by the Parana river; these river systems
have until recently provided the country with its main means of communication.
2.        With an area of 406,752 km2 and an estimated population of 2.4 mil-
lion (which is growing at about 2.6% per year), Paraguay hasa low average
populastion density of 6 per km2. The country is divided by the Paraguay
river into two main regions; Eastern and Western. Eastern Paraguay, covering
40% of the country and containing 90% of its population, has a rolling
topography, and soils ranging from reddish brown laterites, with dense
tropicdl forest in the east, to red and yellow podzolics in the west. Western
Paraguay, otherwise known as the Chaco, is a vast, poorly drained alluvial
plain of mixed material representing soils eroded from the Andes. Semi-arid
tropical forest and native pasture grasses cover most of the region, where
extens4ve cattle ranching prevails.
3.        Actual and potential land use is as follows:
Land Use
Actual (1971)/L           Potential/2
('000 ha)       %        (t0OO ha)        %
Crops                                953         2.3         8,000         19.7
Pasture                           14,849        36.5        14,050         34.5
Forest and other land             24-873        6¶.2        18,625         45.8
Total:                                 .2 675                  100.0
/'  lMinisterio de Agricultura y   '.arR& 
9 /2    1IRD, Agricultural Sector '-Snc--



ANNEX I
Page 2
On the basis of these figures, there is scope for a ninefold increase in the
area under crops at the expense of existing forest land, but growth in live-
stock production should depend more on technical improvements than on any
expansion of the area under pasture,
Agriculture in the Economy
4.        Agriculture dominates the Paraguayarn economy and is likely to con-
tinue to do so for the foreseeable future, because of the country's extensive
agricultural resources, its lack of most other natural resources excepting
hydro-electrical energy), the limited size of the domestic market for
industrial products and the country's -andlocked geographical position.
For the 1968-1972 period, th.e proportion of the population engaged in agri-
culture has remained steady at about 60%, with shares attributable to the
crop sub-sector, livestock and forestry of 49%, 5% and 6%, respectively
(Table 1).
5.        Reflecting a lower growth rate than that for the economy as whole
agriculture's contribution to GDP declined from 37% in 1962 to 31% in 1972.
But within agriculture as a whole, crop production's share rose during the
same period from 53.5% to 57.3Z while the relative importance of both live-
stock and forestry declined from 32% to 30% and from 14% to 12%, respectively
(Table 2).
iS.       In 1972, agricultural exports (including processed products) valued
at 0 10 billion (US$79 million) represented 91% of total exports of goods. Be-
tween 1968 and 1972, the composition of total agricultural exports by value
showed significant changes, because of increased volume of exports and higher
selling prices. Livestock's share rose from 36% to 44%; forestry's share
declined from 23% to 15% and the proportion of crop exports remained constant
at 41% (Table 3). The fastest growing crop exports were soybeans, cotton
(which showed considerable year-to-year variations), essential oils and
sugar (Table 3). In 1972, export crops in order of importance by value were
tobacco (19%), vegetable oils (16%), oilseeds (14%), cotton (11%), coffee (9%)
and qtuebracho (7%). Based on official statistics, Paraguay's visible trade
was in balance over 10 years, 1963 to 1972, although there were sizable
cefic-ts and surpluses in individual years.  Imports of agricultural commod-
it' terepresent only about 10% of total imports, so that the agricultural
sector makes a large positive contribution to the trade balance. Paraguay
is se'f-sufficient in all important food products and agricultural raw
mater:als with the exception of wheat, flour and dairy products, most of
which are still imported despite recc-nt efforts to increase local production.
Much (f Paraguay's industry is concerned with the nrocessing of agricultural,
livestock and forestry products.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Agricultural Production
7.        The bulk of crop production is in the Eastern Region.  Maize
and cassava are grown extensively for subsistence and animal feed, partic-
ularly on small farms. lHowever, reliable area production and yield data
for these crops are lacking. The main cash crops grown are sugarcane, cot-
ton, soybeans, rice, wheat, beans, tobacco, onions and groundnuts; minor
crops include other vegetables (such as tomatoes), castorseed, essential
oils, mainly petit grain (destilled from orange leaves) and mint.
8.        The production details of the nine main cash crops over the period
1962 to 1972, given in Table 4, show that production increases have come
mainly from extension of the area cultivated (which doubled over the period),
while yield increases were insignificant except in the case of cotton, where
the introduction of improved (B50) strains during the past three years had
an impact. Poor climatic conditions with erratic rainfall were the cause of
production declines for most crops in 1971. Rice, wheat and soybeans have
registered the highest rate of production growth, largely due to the exten-
sion of the area devoted to these crops, particularly on larger farms where
mechanized methods have been introduced.
9.        Livestock accounts for 30% of total agricultural production (Table
2). Of the national cattle herd of 4.5 million, 40% are in the Chaco where
large ranches prevail and the average herd size is 800; and 60% are in the
Eastern Region, where 98% of the individual herds are of less than 100 head,
with an average herd size of 33. Forestry production, centered in the Eastern
Regioxi, is estimated at 1.4 million m3 of timber per year, and is mainly
composed of higher quality hardwoods which, in the more accessible areas,
are nearing depletion.
Land Tenure and Land Settlement
10.       Land distribution in Paraguay is uneven.  As shown in the table
below, 62% of the total number of farms are of less than 100 ha. Moreover,
more than half these small units are concentrated in the area south of
Asuncion known as the "minifundia" zone which covers less than 4% of the
total land area. At the other extreme, 76 extensive livestock ranches each
larget than 25,000 ha in the Chaco, but including much unusable land, to-
gether with 106 holdings of more than 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region, ac-
count for more than 14 million ha or 36% of the whole country.



ANNEX t 1
Pag,e 4_
Distribution of Farms by Size, 1970
Eastern Region         Western Region              Total
No. of Farms    %    No. of Farms      %    No. of Farms   x
Total Farms          158,387    100.0      3,824       100.0    162,211    100.0
Less than 1 ha        11,513      7.3        374         9.8      11,887      7.3
1 -  4.9 ha       56,077      35.4       364          9.5     56,441      34.8
5 -  9.9 ha       30,882      19.5       683         17.8     31,565      19.5
10 - 20.9 ha       40,047      25.3        33          0.9     40,080      24.7
21 - 50.9 ha       12,708       8.0        -            -      12,708       7.8
51 - 99.9 ha        2,642       1.7        -            -       2,642       1.6
more than 100 ha       4,518      2.8      2,370        62.0       6,888      4.3
Source:  Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
Agricultural Census 1970
IBRD: Agricultural Sector Report 1972
Between 1956 and 1971, the proportion of owner operated farms has gone from
39% to 61%, reflecting the accomplishments of the Institute of Rural Welfare
(Instituto de Bienestar Rutal) (IBR) in providing squatters with titles under
the terms of the Agrarian Statute of 1963.
11.       Under the same law, IBR is responsible for the establishment of
colonies on unused State lands for settlers coming from the overcrowded
minifundia areas and for Paraguayans returning from Argentina and Brazil.
Since its inception and up to September, 1973, IBR has established 248 such
colonies involving the settlement of over 40,000 families on 2.8 million ha
of land. During the same period, 17,000 families have been settled on 0.7
million ha (mostly in the Departments bordering Brazil) under 60 private
colonization schemes approved by IBR under the terms of the Agrarian Statute
(Annex 2).
12.       This massive movement of population has relieved the pressure on
the wainifundia areas, where the number of holdings of less than 10 ha is
esti:mated to have fallen by 13% between 1961 and 1971, and, together with
tAe new highways, has assisted in opening up the country. But, because of
restricted resources and organizational weaknesses, IBR has not supplied
settlers with sufficient backstopping services, financial support and
technical assistance to enable them to rise much above the subsistence level
of production. For these farmers to raise their standards of living and
contribute to the economic development of Paraguay, it will be necessary
to make more infrastructure investments and provide better technical assis-
tance and more short-, medium- and long-term bank credit. Some steps have
alrealy been taken in this direction, notably a CNPS-administered integrated
development program supported by UNDP, covering 23 IBR colonies on the             9
"northern axis" (Eje Norte) in the San Pedro Department of the Eastern Region.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Supporting Services
13.       Agricultural research is carried out by both the Ministryr of Agri-
culture and the National University at Asuncion, which is also responsible
for h:.Igher education in agriculture. Research programs have concentrated
on varietal introduction and testing of a large range of crops and the sub-
sequent selection and multiplication of environmentally suitable types. More
work needs to be done on determining of optimal planting dates, cultivation
pract:ices and fertilizer requirements. The agriculture extension service
has 47 field offices with a staff of 80 technicians (agronomos), giving a
country-wide cover of one officer to 2,500 farmers. Many are of good techhnical
calib'e but are restricted by transport and access difficulties. In the
colon:es, some extension workers are also provided by IBR but these too lack
transport and are required to perform colony administrative tasks.
14.       Only 10 to 15% of the farmers practice some form of crop fertiliza-
tion, mostly using small quantities of organic matter rather than chemical
fertilizer. Imports of fertilizer averaged only 1 million tons per F.nnum
during the period 1962 to 1967, but rose to 7 million tons in 1972, largely
accounted for by increased fertilizer use by the few large farmers involved
in the wheat program. Most of the fertilizer is imported and distributed
by the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) to its borrowers in a limtited number
of blends. The recent establishment of a blending plant at Asuncion has pro-
vided an alternative distribution channel and led to a reduction in prices,
although its customers are mainly larger farmers. Consumption of pesticides,
used mainly on cotton and vegetables, is growing also.
15.       Mechanization is limited mainly to participants in the wheat pro-
gram and to a few private settlement schemes, such as the Mennonite and
Japanese colonies. Recorded agricultural machinery imports rose slowly to
US$0.7 million in 1967, then jumped to US$1.7 million at the commencement
of the wheat program but have subsequently levelled off at about US$1.5
million annually. Virtually no equipment is manufactured locally.
B. Project Colonies Description
General
16.       The Project area is located along the paved highway linking
Asunc:on with Puerto Pte. S,roessner on the Brazilian border in the east
of Pazaguay (see Maps). The three colonies, Mallorquin, Repatriacion and
Gen. Itroessner (ex-Pastoreo), lie between the towns of Coronel Oviedo anda
Puert( Pte. Stroessner in an area which is mostly covered with primary  Lub-
tropital forest.  These colonization areas are typical of the general azea
of th( central-east of Paraguay, and are located near other important
.  colon:zation schemes notably ..:e very progressive Mennonite and Japane6e
private colonization areas, a   z:e   vernnment's Colonia Pto. Pte. Stroessner
admin:stered by the Ministry :. the Interior.



ANNEX 1             i
Page 6
17.       Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner colonies are 12 km and 22 km dis-
tant, respectively, from the town of Caaguazu. This town has a population
of about 25,000, with post and telecommunication facilities, electric power,
potable water and primary and secondary schools. In the colony of Mallorquin,
there is a small town of the same name with about 15,000 inhabitants. Mallorquin
also has post and telegraph communications and primary and secondary schools.
It is 80 km from Caaguazu and 67 km from Puerto Stroessner on the Brazil
border.
Geology
18.       The Project colonies are situated within the eastern physiographic
region which has a rolling to hilly relief (slopes 0-2%) with a maximum
elevation of 200 m above sea level. The surface soils are underlain by
ancient rocks of the western limit of the great Brazilian Shield. The area
is characterized by wide valleys filled with varying depths of alluvial and
colluvrial deposits. Intruded within the mainly sedimentary rocks are vol-
canics of basic composition; the most important member of the group is the
basaltic rocks, the main soil forming parent material over the Project area.
Soils
19.       Two main soil associations have been identified in the area along
the east-west axis from Caaguazu to the eastern boundary of the colony
Mallorguin. These are:
(a)  the red yellow Podzolic and lateric soils covering about 90%
of the area, found on the higher elevations;
(b) the organic black acidic clay soils in depressed areas
with poor drainage and subject to periodic flooding. This
group, which covers less than 10% of the land area, is
more suitable for pastures.
20.       The podzolic soils are underlain by basalt at varying depths with
a superficial top layer of eolic sand which increases in depth (to about
1 m) from Iguazu moving west to the colonies Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner.
4z tae east of Mallorquin the sandy layer is absent and the deep brown/red
loany/clay soils are derived from basalt parent material. These soils are deep,
moderetely well drained and slightly acid with medium to good fertility,
structure and water retention. The sandy/loam erodible top soil has a low
base exchange capacity and water retention, with a ph of 5.2 to 7.0. Most
of the area has been or is at present under forest. After clearing, the
soils are high in organic matter and nutrients which, in the absence of
fertilizer and optimum cultural methods, are rapidly depleted. If continuous
cropping is practiced on these soUis, balanced fertilization together with
soil conservation measures are necessary.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Hydrology
21.       Background information on hydrology is very scarce and no data
concerning stream flow or groundwater reserves are readily available. There
are a large number of wells in the area (about 70% of farms have wells) but
no reliable records of rates of recharge. Water table levels throughout the
area are at about 17 m, with little variation in levels within and between
years. The quality of the water is suitable for animal and human consumption.
Climate
22.       The climate is sub-tropical but with rapid temperature fluctua-
tions and great variations in any one month from year to year. There is a
cool dry season July-August and a hot rainy season January-February. The
average monthly temperature ranges from about 26°C (November-April) to about
18°C (May-October). Maxima temperature recorded is 40°C, with minima of
about 2°C. Infrequent frosts have been recorded (17 frost days in 18 years)
and are most likely to occur in July. On average, rainfall in the Pr'oject
area is about 1,700 mm (ranging from 1,500 mu in a dry year to 2,000 mm in
a wet year), with about 100 days of rain per year fairly well distributed
(Table 5).
Colony Establishment - Farm-size Distribution
23.       Mallorquin was established by the extinct Agrarian Reform Institute
in 1958, Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner by IBR in 1963. The initial land
allocation in Mallorquin included plots from 20 ha on the highway to 25 ha
1 km or more distant from the road. In Repatriacion, 20 ha plots were
allocated and in Gen. Stroessner the size of plots varied from 10 to 50 ha.
A niamber of small urban plots of 1 ha or less were also distributed within
the administrative center of each colony. A process of fragmentation has
occurred since through inheritance and transfer of portions of lots. Most
recent IBR information given in Annex 2 indicates current farm-size distri-
bution.
Farm Development
24.       Farm development in the three areas is remarkably similar.  Under
the Agrarian Statute (Law 854), farmers lose their right of occupancy by
failing to cultivate at least 20% of their holding within three years or by
failiag to cultivate any part of the holding for two consecutive years.
Most ?armers have, therefore, cleared a minimum of 4 ha to comply with t,a-
law.  All farmers have cor. cte_ some type of house and a few have small
sheds for tools or storage.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
25.       A large range of crops are grown by settlers.  Practically all
farmers grow maize, cassava and a few beans for subsistence, feeding of farm
stock, payment of labor in kind and sale. The cash cropping sequence is more
complex and is dependent on market prospects. Either cotton or tobacco, or
both, are grown by most farmers mainly in response to good markets and assistance
provided under Government programs. Other crops grown in small amounts include
potatoes, onions, garlic, tomatoes, water melons, castor beans, groundnuts,
soybeans, and essential oils. A few farmers grow some orange and mint
for production of essential oils in small locally manufactured stills. This
operation appears financially attractive but suffers from large price fluctu-
ations. Charcoal is also produced on a limited scale.
26.       When the colonies were started, most of the land was covered with
heavy timber and dense undergrowth much of which still remains. The parcel
size had very little to do with individual farm development but the avail-
ability of manual labor did. Families with children of working age, those
with working relatives, or those with some source of capital were able to
move more rapidly in the clearing and farming process. The majority worked
at clearing and planting subsistence crops of maize and cassava between the
fallen logs and stumps. Tobacco is planted generally as the first commercial
crop after forest cutting. The settlers found that, with hand labor, 3 to
4 ha was all they could handle. Therefore, clearing slowed down after the
initial area was felled.
27.       Timber mining, the removal of the five varieties of trees of real
value from the forest, took place before and during early years of coloniza-
tion. Before colonization, trees were taken by anyone able to cut and haul
them away. Previous land owners harvested heavily in some areas. Most
of the output was soldas logs for export. After the start 'of colonization,
some trees were still taken and others were given to builders as compensation
for constructing access roads. In the early years, settlers tended to live
on what they could get from the timber and many left when the supply was
exhausted. Most of the land averaged only seven to eight trees with commercial
value per hectare in the original state and very few trees of the five original
commercial varieties remain in the Project colonies. Logs are no longer
exported but must be made into lumber in Paraguay before being exported.
Many mills are now located along the east-west highway. They are now taking
Uz tO 15 varieties for sawing.  However, the less valuable 10 varieties pay
little or no more than the labor required to get them out and most are still
burned in the clearing process. Therefore, no appreciable income is expected
from the sale of timber from land still under forest in the Project area.
28.       The majority of the Project farmers has been on their plot for
six tt 10 years; some are the second or third to occupy the land.  4ost of
these farmers have experienced very hard times barely eking out a subsistence
livin: for themselves and their families. Farmers located close to the main
east-vest highway appear to have achieved a higher level of development than ^
those on secondary roads. In fact, levels of technology, farm development, V
stand.-rd of living and use of BNF crop financing diminish as accessibility
decre ses.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Extension
29.       Extension agents have been of very little help to the majority
of the settlers in the colonies. The agents are oriented primarily in the
organizing of committees and farming cooperatives, of which many have been
formed but few are operating. The agents' pay is low and they are not paid
regularly. Until recently, those working in the Project colonies had to walk,
ride horse back if a horse was available or catch a ride with someone to
service the farmers. Many farmers have never seen an agricultural exten-
sion agent on or near their farm. There is now one agent in each colony;
two have Volkswagen pickups for roads which require high clearance 4-wheel
drive vehicles. The agents with vehicles are not provided with fuel or
maintenance. There are capable people at the head of agricultural extension
but, as with all other Government agencies in Paraguay, they lack funds to
operate on much more than a day by day basis.
30.       Farmers use no fertilizer, they do not know how to apply it or
when, but are willing to do so if shown. The extension service has conducted
limited fertilizer trials and needs to develop additional information about
fertilizer use in the colony areas for dissemination. Insecticides and
fungicides are used particularly on cash crops such as cotton, soybeans and
vegetables. Repeated applications are often required because it may rain up
to 15 days a month during the growing season. Current yields in the colonies
vary considerably, but the average for the three is as follows:
Ton/ha
Maize                  1.7
Cassava               15.0
Cotton (w/seed)        1.0
Tobacco                1.2
Soybeans               1.6
31.       Since 1972, colony farmers have enjoyed higher farm-gate prices
and core buyers have been willing to pick up products at the farm.  However,
many farmers are forced to bring their produce out by oxen cart, because of
inadequate roads, requiring up to a full dae per trip. A major problem
for the Project is the inadequate roads. Without roads at least suitable for
4-wheel drive jeeps in fair weather, technical or financial help cannot be
made available to many colony farmers. Higher produce prices and more buyers
have stimulated the farmers and they are prepared to clear more land and
increase the area under cash crops. For mDst of them, this would requirc-
an investment in draft animals to increase their ability to cultivate more
hectares.
0



ANNEX 1
Page 10
32.       Presently, less than 17% of the settlers have work animals.
Without work animals the settler is limited to the number of hectares he
can farm with his family labor. Draft animals and the necessary implements
are the prime need in the three colonies of the Project and without them there
could be practically no development. A pair of bullocks cost ¢ 115,000 (US$913).
Once lie has them, the farmer can easily cultivate 5 ha; so he needs more land
and additional investment must be allowed for land clearing. Also pasture
has to be established for the bullock and this requires additional cleared
land and additional finance. Since availability of labor is one of the
limiting factors in the expansion of the area farmed by the colony settlers,
the establishment of permanent pastures for livestock can help to achieve a
greater financial return to the farmer with a minimum of additional annual
labor input.
February 8, 1974



P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FAR1{ER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economically Active Population by Sectors, 1968-1972
C)
Annual
H                                                                                                            Average
\07
,  1968             1969            1970            1971             1972      Growth
'000    %       1000     %000            %'000                            %
AI,- c:ult-ral SecLo.    395    59.8     408    60.0      471    62.5     433    59.9      447    59.9    3.1
uj,ops               319    48.3     330    48.5      391   51.9      352    48.7      364    48.8    3.3
Livestock             37     5.6      38      5.6      39    5.2       39     5.4       40     5.3    2.0
Forestry              39     5.9      40      5.9      41     5.4      42     5.8       43     5.8    2.5
Non-Agricultural                                                                                   -
Sector                265    40.2    273    40.0    282   37ZS         290    40.1      299    40.1    3.1
Total Economically
Active:             660   100.0     681   100.0            100.0     7     100.0      746   100.0    3.1
Source: Ministerio de Justicia y Trabajo
Programa Desarrollo Agropecuario y Forestal
HIt3 



P A R AG U A Y
I.i~~                                            .
3PMIALL  'dRrt;3   AND HU1ll DEVELOPRI614T'l PROJEG'
CD
Composition in Percent               Average Annual Growth Rate in Percent
1962          1970           1972          1962/70  996_70 1970/71 192  72196972
20.0  (53.5)  17.8  (55.5)  17.6  (57.3)    2.9        4.2     4.6     5.6      4.8
iv-> tock                  12.0  (32.2)   9.7  (30.2)   9.3  (30.3)    1.9        2.9     4.8      3.3     3.3
FOieSlrY                   A  ;5J4  (14.3)   4.6  (14-3)   8 j (12.14)    1.4     2.7     3.8      4.8    14.8
Sul-total:            37.4 (100.0)  32.1 (100.0)  30.7 (100.0)    2.5       4.0      3.8     5.1      1t.3
MaCtE-1,,cturing, Mining     16.2           16.8          16.9             5.1      7.5      4.2     6.2     6.o
COn~;Lru,,ijction             2.0            2.8           3.1             8.9    10.0    10.4       6.0     8.8
E::lV}-iAcity, Water          0.7           1.1            1.5            11.6    35.8    22.0    19.0    25.14
Trxo-sport, Coiixmunication  4.0            3.9           4.2              4.6    0.9      4.1      9.8      4.9
CQIR ;0r~e, Finance          23.5          24.4           24.8             5.0      5.5     5.4      4.5     5.1
0.Llw.c Services             16.2          18.9           18.8             6.7      8.4     3.3      4.0    _ 25t
Total GDP:          100.0          100.0          100.0             ___     6.1      __6     _3_
CD \



ANNEX 1
Table 3
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Value!/ and Volume of Exports. 1968-1972
(in US$ Million and '000 Tons)
Average
Annual
Distribution      Change
(Percent)         (Percent)
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1968/69  1971/72   1968-1972
Total ?xports           value   4t7.6  51.0   64.1   65.2   86.2        100.0   100.0       16.7
Agriculture           value    43.5  146.5   57.6   57.0   78.1        91.3    89.0       16.7
%ops                         17.8   19.2   25.3  21.5   31.9         37.5    35.2       18.2
Tobacco           value    T5. 4.   6T    T             7.7        10.2    7.6        11.2
volume   15.0  19.7   19.3   16.1   21.5         -        -         12.1
Veg. Oils         value      4.8    4.6    7.0    8.2    5.7       10.0     9.2         8.7
volume   21.6  19.9   22.3  32.1   28.9          -        -          9.5
Ind. Seeds        value     0.9    0.9    1.5    1.8    4.9         1.8     4.4       64.7
volume   10.6  11.7   18.9   22.2   54.1         -        -         58.3
-otton            value     1.4    3.2    4.0   0.8    3.8          4.6     3.0      112.1
volume    4.4    8.6   11.2    2.9    7.6        -        -         53.4
cffee             value     1.9    0.9    0.9    1.0    3.1        2.9      2.7       42.1
volume    2.9    1.5    1.3    1.5    4.2        -        -         33.4
,Ss. Oils         value     1.7    1.7    2.0    2.3    3.0        3.5      3.5       15.8
volume    0.5    0.5    0.6    0.6    0.7        -        -          9.2
Cakes, Eupellers  value     1.0    1.3    2.5    0.5    1.5         2.3     1.3       60.6
volume    0.5    0.5    o.6    o.6    0.7        -        -         18.3
Sugar             value      -       -      -      -     2.0        0.1     1.3 more than 100
volume    0.3    0.3    0.1      -    11.8       -        -   more than 100
Fruits, Veget.    value     0.5    0.3    0.3    1.3    o.6         0.8     1.3       59.9
volume    4.8    3.1    3.5    9.9    7.4        -        -         33.8
Mate              value     0.6    o.6    0.5    0.1    0.3         1.2     0.3       25.8
volume    5.3    6.0    5.3    1.0    2.9        -        -         26.3
Others            value     0.5    0.1    0.8    0.7    0.3         0.6     0.6 more thanlOO
Livestock           value    15.6   13.7   17.6   22.8   34.3        29.8    37.4        24.1
Beef              value    13.5   11.3   15.2   20.8   29.9        25.3    33.3        24.7
volume   17.7   17.2   24.0  25.5   32.9         -        -         18.0
Hidee             value     1.1    1.2    1.6    1.5    3.7         2.3     3.4        45.7
volume    7.7    7.1    8.6    8.3  10.6         -        -          9.4
Others            value     1.0    1.2    0.8    0.5    0.7         2.2     0.8       -2.7
volume    1.7    2.0    2.5    2.9    6.9        -        -         49.1
Forestry            value    10.1   13.6   14.7   12.7   11.9        24.0   16.2           7
Logs              value   ~57       Z 6    .3    6.6 4.5 -87v      12.1 -2 .
volume  151.2  138.9  132.6  91.1   14.8         -        -        -31.9
Lumber            value     2.4    5.4    6.1    6.o    8.7         7.9     9.7       45.3
volume   32.4   60.1   62.7  61.2   88.5         -        -         33.0
Quebracho         value     201    1.9    2.0    2.2    2.4         4.1     3.0        3.7
volume   17.4  16.1   14.5   15.2  16.1          -        -         -1.7
Non-Agriculture       value      4.3    4.1   6.2    7.6    8.0         8.5    10.3       18.7
l/Aforo values.
Due to rounding subtotals do not always add up to totals.
Source: Banco Central de Paraguay.
November 19, 1973



ANNEX 1
P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Area., Yield and Production of Selected Annual Cash Crops, 1962-1972
1962-64        1965           1966          1967           1968          1969           1970           1971        - 1972
S.garcane
Area ('000 h.)L'              24.0          26.8           26.0          26.0           20.6           23.5          40.5           39.7           30.9
Yield (ton/ha)                32.0          37.0           38.0          38.0           34.0           35.0          33.5           35.4           33.8
Output ('000 ton)            778.7         991.6          988.0         988.0          702.0         821.3        1,415.0        1,407.3        1,044.5
Seed Cotton
Area ('000 h.)                53.9          56.7           62.8          38.2           37.2           60.0          46.9           33.2           57.2
Yield (tan/ha)                 0.67          0.74           0.46          0.70           0.81           0.67          0.84           0.52           0.92
output ('00 conr)             36.2          42.0           28.9          26.7           30.1          40.5           39.6           17.5           52.9
Soybean
Area ('000 ha)                 4.2          11.2           14.2          12.8            8.4           12.2          39.7           54.6           75.8
Yield (ton/ha)                 1.6           1.6            1.4           1.4            1.6            1.8           1.5            1.4            1.3
Output ('000 tan)              6.7          18.0           20.0          18.0           13.5           22.0          52.1           75.3           97.1
Rice
Area ('000 ha)                 7.3           8.0            4.6           7.2            9.0           13.2          16.7           15.4           16.2
Yield (tan/ha)                 2.4           2.7            2.2           2.5            2.3           2.3            2.0            2.2            2.2
Output ('000 ton)             17.6          21.6           10.1          18.1           20.8           30.2          33.4           33.3           35.5
Wheat
Area ('000 ha)                 9.2          10.8            7.2           8.3           20.9           31.6          44.7           51.5           32.01
Yield (tan/ha)                0.83           0.65           1.00          1.10           1.20          0.95           1.07           1.06           0.55
Outpat ('000 ton)              7.7           7.0            7.2           9.1           25.1           30.0          47.6           54.8           17.6
Beans
Area ('000 ha)                26.1          31.5           32.2          32.2           30.0           26.9          54.4           46.2           47.0
Yield (tan/ha)                 0.77          0.75           0.60          0.70           0.60          0.65           0.64           0.55           0.68
Output ('000 ton)             20.1          23.6           19.3          22.5           18.0           17.5          34.9           25.6           32.1
Tobacco
Area ('000 ha)                13.8          14.4            7.0          10.8           18.3           20.0          13.5           16.1           17.5
Yield (tan/ha)                 1.22          1.25           1.25          1.25           1.20           1.20          1.31           1.11           1.34
output ('000 ten)             17.7          18.0            8.7          13.5           22.0           24.0          17.7           17.9           23.5
Dnions
Area ('000 h.)                 2.8           3.0            3.2           3.4            2.2            2.0           2.0            2.1            2.2
Yield (trn/ha)                4.0            4.7           4.7            5.0            8.1           8.5            9.2            9.2            9.3
output ('000 tan)             11.2          14.1           15.5          17.0           18.0           17.1          18.8           19.4           20.6
Groundn-ts
Area ('000 ha)                14.4          22.6           23.3          28.4           22.5           21.6          21.8           22.1           20.6
Yield (ton/ha)                 0.85          0.85           0.85          0.85           0.80          0.75           0.78           0.83           0.83
output ('000 tan)             12.3          19.2           19.8          20.7           18.0           16.2          17.0           18.4           17.1
Total Area ('000 ha)           155.7         199.2          180.5         163.3          169.1          211.0         280.2          283.5          325.0
Source:  Mini-corio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
/1 Area = harvested area.
/2 Incomplete harvest figures: area uhown to wheat in 1972 was 59,000 ha,
January 6, 1974



P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPLENT PROJECT
X                                                                     Rainfall in the Prqject Area (1950-1964)
o                                                                                         (mm)
,,,,  Januar  F _ebuary  March  Apr_l      MaH      June       July    Aujust  Set ember October November  Dlecember    To.al
Average Rainfall                  181.4    114.3    147.4        128.0    117.5    126.5         91.4       80.3    143.5      2l7.3      156.3    140.3        1,644.2
Maximarm Rainfall (1954)          215.2    114.1    153.1    187.5    322.7    233.7    159.8                7.2     220.0    228.0        12.5    203.7        2,057.5
Minimum Rainfall (1962)           179.6    294.6        69.1    123.3        61.8      18.1      63.9       52.5     111.2    267.7    201.4          47.6      1,490.8
Maximum No. of Rain Days/Year  17             15        12        10         10        14        12         12        13         16        13        15         159
Average No. of Rain Days/Year  10              9         8          7         7         8         8          7        10          9         S          8         99
Source:  Direccion de Meteorologia, Ministerio de Defensa Nacional.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Reform and Rural Development
A. Background
Introduction
1.        Paraguay has been described as "a land without people and a people
without land." On the one hand, the overall population density is low (less
than 6 per km'); on the other, according to the 1961 census, 68% of all land
holdings are less than 10 ha in size and 45% of the total number of farmers
were classed as "occupiers" without legal rights either as proprietors or
tenants. This apparent paradox reflects the state of land tenure in
Paraguay.
2.        Before the arrival of the first colonists in the 1530's, the Guarani
Indians in what is now Eastern Paraguay were producing crops such as corn,
manioc and groundnuts under tenure systems that did not recognize individual
property rights in land. Each succeeding stage of development after the
conquest involved attempts to superimpose European-type ownership on this
communal land system. Under colonial rule, grants known as "encomiendas"
giving not only rights over and responsibilities for the Guaranies but also
ownership of their land were made to colonists and their descendants 1/.
The protection afforded to the Guaranies under the Crown was whittled away
by the colonists and ceased altogether when Paraguay became independent in
1811.
3.        At the end of the first period of independence (1811 to 1840) the
State still owned all of Western Paraguay and nearly half of Eastern Paraguay.
But following the war of the Triple Alliance (1865 - 1870), much Government
land was sold in large tracts to foreign buyers in order to replenish public
coffers and to stimulate external investment. Immigration of European
settlers, totalling only 8,000 between 1881 and 1900, was small compared to
the reighbouring countries of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.
1/   Between 1610 and 1767, granz~ called "reducciones" were also made to
Jesuit missions giving them an even greater control over the Indian
population.  These lands were taken over by Spanish colonists when the
Jesuits were expelled.



AMNEX 2
Page 2
4.        These developments reduced the amount of land available for the
small indigenous cultivator. By 1926, it was estimated that land holdings
of 50 ha or less constituted 99.7% of total holdings but occupied less than
2% of the total area; that only 5.8% of the population owned land, and that
70% of farmers did not own the :.and they cultivated 1/. As a consequence,
land reform became a dominant political issue in the first half of the 20th
century.
5.        The early land reform measures proved largely ineffective because
of optosition from the land owners affected, lack of public funds to finance
expropriation payments and the absence of an executive authority. In 1926,
the Departmevit of Lands and Colonies was created to establish and administer
colonies on State lands and, by the outbreak of the Chaco War in 1931, it had
succeeded in distributing 18,000 plots covering in all 230,000 ha to settlers.
In 1940, it was made an independent institution under the title of Department
of Lands and Colonization and was charged with the implementation of an Agrarian
Statute under which, in addition to State lands, private properties were in
certain prescribed circumstances made subject to distribution for settlement
purposes. During the next twenty years, move land legislation was enacted
and tie Department of Lands and Colonization was superseded by the Institute
of Ag-arian R>eform in 1951, but little real progress was made in tackling the
basic problems of land distribution and titling, as evidenced by the results
of the Agricultural Census conducted in 1961.
6.        This showed that 64% of the rural farm operators were not owners
of the lands they were working; the remainii- g 36% owned about 85% of the
total area in farms and ranches.
lf  'evlsta internacionar   da ins-=:;uc'ones economicas y sociales (Rome)
V 2 (Apr±4-June 1926).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Land Tenure by Class of Operator,
Laids in Farms and Ranches, 1961 and Partial Data Available, 1970
Total Area
Class of Operator             No. of Units       Percent          1961      Percent
1961    1970    1961  1970       ('000 ha)      1961
Owners:                      68,385             42.5  61.0       15,260        87.4
Definite Titles           57,079              35.5             14,898        85.3
Provisional Titles        11,306               7.0                362         2.1
Renters:                     19,741             12.3  10.0          842         4.8
Cash Rent                 14,824               9.2                809         4.6
Crop Rent                  4,917               3.1                 33         0.2
Squatters:                  72,651              45.2  29.0        1,371         7.8
Private Land              47,736              29.7                839         4.8
Government Land           24,915              15.5                532         3.0
Total:           160,777 162,211   100.0              17,473       100.0
Source: 1961 and 1970 census.
7.        In 1961, more than 68% of the total number of farms were of less
than 10 ha in size and this percentage was still 60% in 1970. There was a
relative concentration of these small units in the so-called "minifundia"
zone comprising the department of Cordillera, Guavra, Paraguari and Central
lying in an oval about the Asuncion-Villarrica axis. Unlike other countries
in South America, minifundia units are subsistence farms independent of
large land owners, although they also include small-scale market garden
producers near Asuncion (known as "quintas"). M4ost are farmed by direct
descendants of the indigenous Guaranies. The sub-division of already small
units as families multiply, together with loss of soil fertility, have
decreased the viability of many minifundias.
8.        In Western Paraguay (the Chaco) large extensive livestock ranches
prevail, 76 of these account for more than 8 million ha. Large holdings are
also a feature of Eastern Paraguay where, in 1962, 106 units of more than
10,00 ha covered more than 6 million ha, and even in the so-called minifundia
area (para 7 above) of the total farmed land 53% was in the hands of 195 owners
of farms of more than 1,000 ha in size.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        The main objects of the new Agrarian Statute (Law No. 854) enacted
in 1953 were to promote and guarantee rights to real estate property in order
that it may perform its proper social function and contribute to rural welfare
and economic development; and to transform the agrarian structure of the
country so that the agricultural population may be effectively incorporated
into the economic and social development of the nation. The more important
specific provisions of the statute cover:
(a) the definition of latifundia as a holding of more than
10,000 ha in the Eastern Region or of more than 20,000 ha in
the Western Region (Chaco), which is not rationally exploited
(holdings with permanent improvements representing 50% or
more of the land value are considered to be "rationally
exploited");
(b) definition of minifundia and measures to Drevent their further
fragmentation and to encourage their amalgamation into viable
units;
(c) prescriptions as to the utilization of public and private land
for settlement purposes;
(d) the definition of "official colonization" as that carried out
by the Institute of Rural Welfare (Instituto de Bienestar
Rural) (IBR) on:
i.   State lands passed to its control;
ii.   private lands expropriated for colonization
purposes; and
iii.  private lands placed at the disposal of IBR for
colonization purposes;
(e) the procedures for "private colonization" which may be carried
out on their own lands by the owners subject to the authorization,
supervision and control of IBR;
(f) the arrangements to implement Law No. 662 of 1960 under which
owners of latifundia (as defined at (a) above) may be required
to allocate not less than 10% of such land for settlement pur-
poses together with procedures for expropriation and compen-
sation;
(g)  the provisions to regularize the position of "squatters" in
accordance with the terms of Law No. 622 of 1960;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
(h) the rights and obligations of beneficiaries under the
Agrarian Statute, including the purchase of land and
the issue of titles and the prevention of fragmentation
on the death of the settler;
(i) colony administration and the provision of supporting
services by IBR in such fields as housing, technical, economic
and social assistance, marketing and credit; and
(j) the regulation of agricultural leases, sharecropping and
group contracts.
10.       This Agrarian Statute not only codified previous legislation
affecting land, but also attempted to reconcile what had previously been
opposing viewpoints on the subject of land distribution by invoking the new
concept of "rural welfare" - a somewhat vague term that was used to cover
both the new settler and the farmer who was rationally exploiting his holding,
whatever its size. It is significant that the organization created to imple-
ment the provision of the Agrarian Statute and to replace the Institute of
Agrarian Reform was named the Institute of Rural Welfare (IIR). This institu-
tion - its oiganization, policy and performance - is discussed below.
B. Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR)
Introduction
11.       The Institute of Rural Welfare (Instituto de Bienestar Rural - IBR)
established under Law 852 of 1963 is an autonomous agency with its own budget.
Although its official channel of communication with Government is through the
Minister of Agriculture and Livestock, the President and Council of IBR are
given wide powers to determine and execute policy in respect of land reform,
land settlement and rural welfare under the provisions of the Agrarian Statute
and related legislation. Its President and the five members of its Council
are nominated by Government; they must not hfive interests related to the
preservation of latifundia nor have any other Government responsibility. They
serve for five years but may be reappointed.
Finance
12.       The main sources of finance available to IBR include:
(a) Government lands transferred to IBR on its inception;
(b) proceeds of timber taxes and quarrying fees;
(c)  proceeds of sale and renting of lands and grazing fees;
(d) annual Government grants; and
(e) credits (internal and external).



ANNEX 2
Page 6
During the three years 1969 to 1971, IBR's income remained at a level of about
0 110 million (US$0.9 million), with proceeds of land sales (54%) forestry
an- quarrying fees (20%) and Government grants (16%) accounting for the bulk
of its revenue.
13.       In 1972, ordinary income rose to 0 140 million (US$1.1 million) due
mainly to a 50% increase in land sales proceds. Although rising slightly
in absolute terms, the annual grant from Government continued to represent
only 16% of IBR's ordinary income. During the four years 1969 to 1972, the
average level of ordinary expenditure was about 0 119 million (US$0.9 million).
IBR's operational deficit in this period in fact declined from 0 27 million
(US$0.2 million) to 0 11 million (US$0.1 million) (Table 1). This deficit
was covered by short-term borrowing from th! Central Bank (which has since
been reduced) and by delaying payment for ltnd acquired either by purchase or
expropriation.
Organization and Procedures
14.       IBR's organization is highly centralized and departmentalized.  It
employs over 400 permanent staff, of whom 75% are in the headquarters in
Asuncion, and a varying number of temporary or contract staff (e.g., for land
surveying and debt collection). IBRts permanent staff includes an increasing
number of well-qualified technicians who welcome the organizational improve-
ments now taking place (see para 22 below); the few in the field are hampered
by lack of transport.
15.       Concentrating mainly on state lands entrusted to its control, IBR's
principal activities have been in land settlement. Settlers are chosen from the
minifundia areas (where complementary consolidation of small units takes
place), from Paraguayans returning from working abroad, and other applicants.
Colonles may be for livestock, agriculture/forestry or agricultural produc-
tion, but the majority are located in the Eastern Region, where the average
size of an individual farmer plot is 20 ha.
16.       After satisfying itself as to the right of ownership, and estab-
lishing that the land is suitable for settlement, IBR has the area surveyed
and marked into lots. In this process, minimum attention is paid to topography,
river courses, and the best road alignment, and settlement layouts appear to
be mainly a drawing board exercise.
17.       Before moving farmers to a new settlement area, IBR opens penetra-
tion roads either with machinery provided by the Ministry of Public Works or
by utilizing contractors, who are sometimes compensated by being allowed to
extract timber freely from the area. The IBR then transports the settler,
his family and his belongings to the settlement where he is required to
commence clearing his land and building a house within six months. He
receives no other assistance except for food provided under PL 480 or World
Food Program schemes. The settler must work according to a program laid
down by IBR; he must clear at least 20% of the holding within three years          *
and fence off the cultivated area.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.       The price the settler has to pay for his land (fixed by IBR taking
into account the current value of fiscal land in the area and the costs of
surveying and plot allocation) varies between ¢ 500 (US$4) to ¢ 5,000 (US$40)
per ha. Article 74 of the Agrarian Statute provides for an additional payment
by the settler of 4% of the purchase price to provide a "savings fund" as a
reserve against crop failure 1/. A discount of 15% of the total value is
allowed if payment is made in full at the time of allotment. The maximum
perici allowed for payment is 15 years, but in practice shorter periods are
prescribed, usually seven years including a two-year grace period. Penalties
for payment default are revaluation of the outstanding balance at current
land prices, and foreclosure in the event of more than two consecutive pay-
ments being in arrears, but these sanctions are seldom applied.
19.       Under the Agrarian Statute, the TBR is responsible for supplying
settlers with health, educational, credit and agricultural extension services,
and colony administration. In fact, however, the total spent by IBR on such
development services amounted to ¢ 51 million (US$0.4 million) or approximately
0 4,300 (US$34) per settler during the years 1970 to 1972. To a limited
extent, the gap has been filled by the progressive coverage of new colony
areas by Government services and by the provision of production credit on a
very limited scale by the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and, in particular
areas only, by the Caja Agraria de Habilitacion (CAH).
20.       At the time the settler first takes possession of his plot, he is
given a letter of entitlement (adjudicacion) explaining how he can obtain a
definite title to the land under the Agrarian Statute. Normally, IBR only
issues definite titles, constituting a legal transfer of the land to the
name t)f the settler, when the purchase price is paid in full. Disabled
veterans of the Chaco War and families with seven or more dependent children,
may b- granted up to 20 ha free. Under Council Resolution No. 1860 of October
3, 1973, IBR authorized the issue of titles to settlers in colonies in the
Eje Norte zone who fulfilled the following conditions:
(i)  cultivate a minimum of 3 ha;
(ii) have paid to IBR at least 25% of the purchase price of
their land;
(iii) do not own more than 25 ha;
(iv) have satisfactory production records; and
1/   Since October 1969, IBER Aas been levying .:-is charge but it has not,
as required by the law, put the proceeds i. a separate account.  This
las effectively raised IBR's land sale prices.  It has also contributed
to the existing confusion as to the amounts owing by individual settlers
to IBR.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(v) enter into a separate agreement to repay to IBR the
outstanding balance of the purchase price of their land.
21.       Land titles have to be registered in the Agrarian Registry main-
tained by IBR as well as the General Property Register. For a period of ten
years after the grant of the title to the settler, the land may not be attached,
alienated, sold or transferred without the consent of the IBR.
22.       Due to the rapid growth of its activities, particularly in land
settlement, during the last decade, the organization of IBR had become over-
strained, and so, in 1972, with the aid of a pre-investment loan of US$45,000
from IDB, a firm of consultants (Fretes Ventre v Asociados) was engaged to
review its administrative and accounting procedures. Their recommendations
have largely been accepted and their contract has been extended until May
1974, so that they can assist in the adoption of the newz methods and proce-
dures, including:
(a) the re-structing of its organization to comply with
the new organizational chart;
(b) the preDaration of onerational manuals;
(c) the reorganization of the accounting system, including the
setting up of a special "Recoveries Department" and an internal
audit system;
(d) the installation of mechanized accounting procedures;
(e) the examination and rescheduling of all existing accounts,
especially outstanding debts for land purchase by settlers;
and
(f)  the strengthening of departmental and colony tnits.
Evaluation of IBR's Achievements and Policies
23.       IBR is a multi-purpose institution empowered under the Agrarian
Statute and related legislation to perform the functions of a Ministry of
Lands, an Agrarian Reform Institute, a Land Settlement Authority and a Land
Mortgage Bank. Its policy since its formation in 1963 has been to concentrate
on legalizing the position of squatters, consolidating the minifundia units
and settling surplus population from the minifundia areas as well as
Paraguayans returning from Brazil and Argentina, mainly on unutilized Govern-
ment lands.
24.       Ouantitatively, IBR's land settlement record is impressive.  As
the following table shows, in the ten years of its existence, IBR has colonized
three times more land than had been settled in the previous half century.  $
number of families being settled by IBR is running at the rate of 4,000 per9
year.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
Public Colonies Established in Paraguay 1908-1973 11
Average
No. of      Total                 Size of
Colonies     Area        No.of      Plot
Established   (ha)        Plots      (ha)
A.  1908 to 1962               170     908,677      44,619       20
B.  By IBR during period
1963-1973 (Sept.)
Eastern Region            231   1,008,348       39,213       26
Western Region
(Chaco)                    17   1,782,975        1,216   1,466
Sub-total:            248   2,791,323       40,429       69
Total:                418   3,700,000       85,048      44
/1   Details of private colonization schemes are given in the next section.
Source: IBR
Even when allowance is made for the fact that IBR's figures have probably been
inflated and include existing and spontaneous settlements that have been
officially recognized (and frequently renamed) as new colonies, there is no
doubt that IBR has been responsible for a massive resettlement program. More-
over, as shown in para 14 and Table 1, this has been largely financed out of
IBR's own resources.
25.       IBR's settlement costs amount to only approximately ¢ 38,000 (US$300)
per family. Taking into account health, educational and other services pro-
vided by Government, the total settlement cost per family is estimated to be
about US$500 equivalent. As the following table shows, this is extremely
low compared with settlement schemes in other parts of the world:



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Comparative Settlement Costs per Family
Settlement Cost per Family
Country                   Scheme                    in US$
Brazil                Alto Turi                      1,700
Colombia              Caqueta /1                     2,200
Colombia             Atlantico (Irrigation)         10,000
Kenya                 Land Settlement                3,000
Malaysia              Jengka Triangle               10,000
Trinidad              Crown Lands                   20,000
Peru                  San LoArenzo (Irrigation)     30,000
Paraguay              IBR                              500
/1   Increased to US$4,000 by 1973.
26.       Settlement costs have been kept to this low level by reducing to
a minimum the services provided to the new settler. Settlement layouts pay
insufficient attention to topographical, soil and water considerations.
Instead of roads being aligned along crests, with plots on valley slopes
facilitating access to water and ensuring a fairly equitable distribution of
soils, it appears that standard drawing board layouts, involving regular
patterns of rectangular plots, are utilized irrespective of the topography.
The use of dispersed settlement patterns hampers the growth of community
development.
27.       Because the settler is given no assistance in clearing his land,
trees are felled by hand and burnt. As a result, logs, stumps and roots
are left to decay and are a hindrance to cultivation. Technical assistance
provided is meager; IBR has only four agronomists (ingenieros agronomos) and 32
agricultural technicians (agronomos) on its staff, and the extension service
of the Ministry of Agriculture is operating in only a few colonies. Insti-
tutional credit, provided mainly by BNF, reaches less than 10% of all settlers.
Because of their poor original alignment and lack of subsequent maintenance,
the condition of most colony roads is deplorable thus adding to marketing
problems.
28.       The social infrastructure of most IBR colonies is rudimentary.
Often the settlers, themselves, working together in the traditional "minga",
build their own private schools.  aLn cclony urban areas, provision is made
for reXligious, social and spo:ting activities, as well as for commercial
interests and Government offices with a view to their eventual incorporation
as "municipios" in the administrative system. The establishment of farmers'
organ: zations is being encouraged by IBR; either for specific purposes, such
as marketing, or as more general development committees on a colony section
basis.                                                                             W



ANNEX 2
41
29.       Because of the general inadecuacy of supporting serv' ces, most
farmers, although hardworking, eke out a livelihood with produet4on that is
only a little above the subsistence level. Many of the original- settlers
have left their colonies and have been replaced by newcomers; others have
divided their plots in order to obtain cash. Frequently such transactions
have neither been approved nor recorded by IBR and the occupant is without
a title to the land he is farming. In other cases, the traditional Guaraal
attitude towards land ownership (para 2 above), the settler's lack of cash
and a weak IBR collection system have resulted in recognized settlers
(adjudicados) being in arrears in the payment of their land purchase
installments.  En such instances, too, the settler remains without a title
to his land.
30.       IBR publishes statistics of land titles issued (Table 2) wlhich shows
that in the period 1962-1972, a total of 39,352 titles covering 2,037,110 ha
of land were granted. The rate of issue had, however, declined, from 6,500 in
1965 to 2,281 in 1972. Moreover, a proportion of these titles will have been
for land consolidation, for regularizing the position of squatters, for urban
plots and for wounded veterans of the Chaco War and the fathers of more than
seven children - categories that are entitled to free settlement ploat.
31.       To sum up this survey of IBR's achievements and policies to date:
(a)  IBR has concentrated on settling th-e largest possible numbers
on hitherto unutilized State lands, rather than use its powers
under the Agrarian Statute to expropriate "surplus" latifundia
land for this purpose;
(by this movement of people to new lands has been associated with
the opening up of '-he country by new highways, notably the
completion of the International Road from Asuncian to Puerto
Presidente Stroessner (the socalled "Eastern Axis"); and to
a lesser extent the "Northern Axis" running northwards from
the town of Coronel Oviedo;
(c)  settlement of large numbers of ne& farmers in relatively
inaccessible areas without sufficient preparation, financial
support or technical assistance, has led to a Droliferation
of subsistence farming;
(d) to enable these farmers to raise their standard of living
and to contribute to the economic development of Paraguay
now calls for more infrastructure investment, the p--rovsion
of short-, medium- and long-term bank credit and technical
assistance;              L
0



ANNEX 2
Page 12
(e) IBR's operations have undoubtedly eased the pressure on land
in the minifundia area (Departments of Central, Cordillera,
Paraguari and Guaira) where the number of holdings of less
than 10 ha which had increased from 60,792 in 1956 to 65,853
in 1961, declined in 1970 to 57,247. Also, between 1956 and
1971, the proportion of Paraguayan farmers owning their land
rose from 39% to 61% and the proportion of squatters had
correspondingly declined from 49% to 29%; and
(f) these results have been achieved at considerable hardship to
the settlers and eventually high infrastructural costs.
These social and economic costs could have been lessened
if at least some of the land in the minifundia areas which could
be expropriated under the Agrariai Statute had been utilized for
land settlements. Between 1962 ani 1973, IBR expropriated only
30,271 ha representing 1% of the t.tal area utilized in land
settlement, although it did acquire by purchase some 606,000 ha
of private land.
Likely Future Trends in IBR Land Settlement Policy
32.       There is a growing realization by IBR that much more attention must
be given to colony infrastructure development and to the provision of more
technical assistance and bank credit to settlers, coupled with the admission
that these tasks are beyond the capacity of IBR to handle on its own, and
that a large measure of institutional cooperation and outside assistance is
needed. The first steps in this direction were taken in 1968 when IBR signed
an agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, BNF and the Interamerican
Institute of Agricultural Science (Instituto Interamericano de Ciencias
Agricolas - IICA) for the undertaking of a joint program to improve services
to settlers in the colony Gen. Stroessner (ex-Pastereo) which was subsequently
extended to cover the other two colonies proposed for inclusion in the Pro-
ject - Repatriacion and J.L. Mallorquin. Annual production targets were
formulated to be achieved through coordinated programs of technical assistance,
credit, marketing and social development. One official was nominated as
field coordinator in each colony, and the whole scheme was subject to control
by a policy coordinating committee in Asuncion. Lack of money to improve
roads, staff transport shortages and difficulties in implementing the credit
program have limited the effectiveness of this effort.
33.       In 1967, by Presidential Decree a National Council of Social Progress
(Consejo Nacional de Progresso Social - CNPS) was established consisting of
the Ministers of Agriculture, Publiz Health and Social Welfare, Education
and Culture, the President of IBR and the Executive Secretary of Technical
Planning Secretariat 1/. Operating as part of the national planning machinery,
the role of CNPS is essentially that of an interministerial coordinating
organization. Each member serves in turn as President of the Council for a
1/   The Minister of Justice and Labor was made an additional member of the   i
Council in December 1971.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
year at a time. Its technical and executive arm is the National O:fice of
Social Progress (Oficina Nacional de Progresso Social - ONPS), formed in
1972 w.rhich now has a modest budget (totalling $ 2.7 million, or US$21,400
for 1)74) and a total technical staff of four. A Technical Committee, made
up of high level representatives of the organizations forming the CNPS, to-
gether with representatives of other institutions, such as BNF and the
Ministry of Public Works, is responsible for the technical evaluation of
projects and reports of the CNPS before they are submitted to the Council.
34.       One of the major projects for which the CNPS is the coordinating
agency is a comprehensive development program for 23 IBR colonies covering
114,000 ha and for new IBR colonies to be established on an additional 64,000
ha in San Pedro Department of the Eastern Region--the so-called Northern
Axis (Eje Norte). Total Project costs over the five years 1972 - 1976 are
estimated to be ¢ 527 million (US$4.2 million). Separately shown budget
allocations of the Government ministries or agencies concerned will provide
79% of these costs; the balance being supplied by grants and technical assist-
ance from ILO, FAO, UNESCO, WHO and UNICEF under a joint agreement with the
Government. To ensure the necessary coordination at field level, an "opera-
tional coordinator" has been appointed and he presides over committees composed
of local representatives of all the agencies concerned.
35.       A provisional evaluation of the first stages of this Project
suggests that its main weaknesses stem from:
(a) lack of provision for roads;
(b) insufficient supply of credit;
(c) inadequate coordination at field level;
(d) basic soil and water problems; and
(e) dispersal of effort over too wide an area.
36.       Since 1972, IBR has been assisting settlers in the marketing of
their products. The formation of farmers' marketing committee (or precoopera-
tives) has been encouraged and these have been provided with market information
and put in touch with buyers in Asuncion. The Commercial Department at IBR
Headquarters has recently acquired a fleet of 17 trucks which transport
settlers' produce to point of sale at freight rates based on operating costs.
This ,rovision of an alternative marketing channel may be helpful, but if
roads were improved so that transport costs could be reduced and competition
between buyers increased, and more institutional credit made available, there
would be a real strengthening of tne farmers' marketing position.
0



ANNEX 2
Page 14           I
37.       Recently, a provisional five-year development plan was prepared by
IBR involving capital expenditures totalling 0 1,466 million (US$11.6 million).
Ir addition to normal expenditures on the continuance of IBR's land settlement
program, the plan would have allocated 0 335 million (US$2.7 million) for
expansion of transport and storage facilities and 0 363 million (US$2.9 mil-
lion) for road works. This plan is current:y being revised because it would
appear to involve IBR in a total deficit of 0 1,000 million (US$7.9 million)
over the five-year period, highlighting IBR's precarious financial situation.
38.       A law to rationalize forestry exploitation (through the creation of
a National Forestry Service under the Ministry of Agriculture) is presently
under consideration which would reduce considerably IBR's income from this
source. At the same time, the legislature -.s being asked to consolidate and
increase fees and charges on land transactitns to provide IBR with additional
revenues. Both measures have been under cot,sideration for more than two years
and it may well be some time before such legislation is approved.
39.       In the meantime, however, IBR has increased its income from land
sales. Between 1965 and 1971, this item, consisting mainly of installment
payments by settlers for land, averaged 0 60 million (US$0.5 million) per
annum, representing a recovery rate of about 40%. But in 1972 receipts under
this heading rose to 0 94 million (US$0.8 million) and to the end of September
1973, they amounted to 0 152 million (US$1.2 million) which, on a pro-rata
basis would give a total of about 0 200 million (US$1.6 million) or more than
three times greater than the average yield during the period of 1965-1971.
It appears that this increase is partly due to more new settlers, particularly
those granted larger lots, paying for their land in full at the time of
allotment, but it also reflects the improved financial position of the smaller
settler. Thanks to the recent rise in agricultural prices, he has been able
and willing to pay more by way of installments on the purchase price of his
land znd this augurs well for the proposed Project.
40.       Another factor that may contribute to an improvement in IBR's income
in the future would be a decline in the numbers of plots allocated free to
wounded veterans of the Chaco War, fathers of seven or more children and
others. Over the seven years from 1966 - 1972, the value of such free alloca-
tions amounted to ¢ 144 million (US$1.1 million).
41.       As a result of its land settlement policies, IBR's supply of State
land evailable for colonization is declining. In IBR's Balance Sheet at the
end of December 1972, the main asset (rural land) was entered at a figure of
¢ 2,543 million (US$20 million), and is estimated to represent the following
land holdings:



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Total Area               Average Value             Total Value
(ha)                    (0 per ha)                (0 '000)
Western Region
11,250,000                  181                     2,038
Eastern Region
505,140                1,000                       505
2,543
Values are based on fiscal data and are lower than current market values.
42.       On the basis of the statistics given in para 24, the annual utili-
zation of land for settlement purposes over the past ten years has averaged
180,000 ha in the Western Region and 100,000 ha in the Eastern Region.  If
these rates of settlement are maintained, IBR's stocks of land in the Eastern
Region would run out in five years.  They would, however, last longer if IBR
regains possession of more state land, as it last did in 1970, when its
rural land item in the Balance Sheet was increased bv ¢ 296 million (US$2.3
million) on this account. As regards IBR's stock of land in the Western
Region (Chaco), this would on the same basis last for 60 years. But the bulk
of this land is on the Bolivian border in the Department of Boqueron, which
is the most arid region of Paraguay and will at best support only most exten-
sive ranching. It does not, therefore, have the same prospects for small
farmer settlement as does the Eastern Region.
43.       The general conclusion is that diminishing land availability and
the realization of the need to provide settlers with better infrastructure
and supporting services, coupled with financial constraints, will lead to a
reappraisal of IBR land settlement programs and policies in the not too distant
future.
C. Other Settlement Schemes
General
44.       In 1855, the first foreign colony was established at Nuevo Burdeos
in the Chaco by French immigrants from Bordeaux. Its failure did not deter
other settlement ventures with immigrants from Germany, Australia, England,
Austria and Italy. Most of these have become largely integrated with and
contributed to the general development of the areas in which they were founded.
Two particular types of foreign settlement (the Mennonites and the Japanese)
have retained their separate identity and these are described below. Details
are also given of the only major public land settlement scheme (at Puerto
Presidente Stroessner) which is not under IBR control.



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Mennonite Settlements
45.       Under a law passed in 1921 which guaranteed their rights of self-
government and religious and educational freedom, the Mennonite Community has
established colonies in Paraguay, including three in the Chaco and four in
the Eastern Region. The first Mennonite se:tlers came to the Chaco in 1926
from Canada, followed by others from Russia (via Poland and Germany) in 1930
and 1947/48. Each colony is self-governing provides its own health and
educational services and organizes its agricultural production on a coopera-
tive basis. A Central Committee in Asuncion looks after common interests,
including bulk purchases and sales and imports and exports. Because of their
strong community spirit and capacity for hard work, these colonists have sur-
vived through years of isolation and depression and are now using profits
resulting from current high agricultural prices to increase mechanization
and expand production. But, as they are virtually states within a state, the
Mennonite colonies have had little if any influence on development outside
their settlements.
Japanese Settlements
46.       Under an agreement between the Governments of Paraguay anid Japan
made in 1963, special arrangements apply to colonies established by Japanese
settlers in the Eastern Region. These are controlled and assisted by the
Corporacion Publica de Emigratorio del Japon which has office in Asuncion,
Encarnacion, Alto Parana, Fram and Iguazu, and is supported by the Japanese
Government and Japanese industrial undertakings. Before leaving Japan,
settlers must pay 10% of the price of the land and undertake to repay the
balance to the Corporacion over eight to 12 years, together with interest at
5% per annum. Through cooperatives with an average membership of 250, settlers
can obtain technical assistance and production and investment credit (up to
eight years) also at 5% per annum. With technical assistance from the Japanese
Government, research programs are being carried out, notably in livestock
problems.
47.       Although no statistical data are available, it is clear that these
colonies, with considerable investment in machinery, achieve higher levels of
land clearance and crop production than the neighboring IBR settlers, some
of whom are showing interest in copying these improved techniques. As they
offer training facilities and help disseminate new techniques, these Japanese
colonies have an impact on the surrounding areas. For example Japanese settlers
introduced the soybean to Paraguay and this crop is now widely cultivated
in the Eastern Region.
Administrative Commission for Puerto Presidente Stroessner (Comision
de Administracion de Puerto Presidente Stroessner - CAPPS)
48.       The Commission was established in 1957 (i.e., before the construction
of the bridge connecting Paraguay and Brazil and the highway to Asuncion) to
administer under the Ministry of the Interior, an area of 57,500 ha on the _
west bank of the River Parana. The Commission is divided into three divisions:



ANNEX 2
Page 17
an urban division responsible for development at Puerto Presidente Stroessner;
a settlement division responsible for agricultural development on the 54,500
ha of rural land; and an industries division for the promotion of agro-indus-
trial ventures. The Commission has its own budget and staff. On the settle-
ment side, CAPPS has pursued policies similar to those adopted by IBR. Some
1,500 families have been settled on about 30,000 ha; the balance is being
held as forest reserve and to provide land for eventual allocation to settlers'
sons in order to avoid fragmentation. Land prices are fixed on a sliding scale
according to distance from the highway. For plots within 2 km of the highway,
the land price is 0 7,000 (US$56) per ha; for those 5 km and more from the
road, the price is 0 3,000 (USS24) per ha.
49.       In general, CAPPS has provided more suDporting services to the
settlers than are available under IBER schemes. For the 450 km of feeder roads
in the colonv area, the colony has its own pool of machinery (2 graders,
2 bulldozers, 1 trailer, 5 tipning trucks and 1 frontend loader).  Unlike
IBR which uses its income to finance new settlement elsewhere, CAPPS Dloughs
back surpluses, and uses them to establish industries, such as sawmills,
stone mills and a ceramics factory. It has helped promote a flourishing
cooperative ("Minga Guazu" with 350 members) which exported 2,500 tons of
sova and 3,000 tons of maize in 1972, operates its own feed mill and has a
pig breeding unit to supply weaners to members.
50.       Despite these advantages, however, the proportion of land cleared
and the standards of cultivation do not appear to be much higher than in the
neighboring IBR colonies, largely due to lack of institutional credit for
production and investment. This would be remedied if CAPPS is successful in
its current application to IDB for assistance in financing a comprehensive
development project covering all its activities.
Private Colonization
51.       As indicated in para 9 (e), under the Agrarian Statute of 1963,
private colonization is encouraged, provided the land owners concerned obtain
the approval of IBR to their settlement schemes. Between 1960 and 1972, 59
such private colonies were approved, covering in all some 17,000 settlers and
an area of 695,000 ha--all in the Eastern Region. In fact, 495,000 ha
representing 71% of their total were in the Departments of Alto Parana and
Itapua, which border on Brazil.
52.       UJnder Article 105 of the Agrarian Statute of 1963, owners initiating
private colonization schemes on their lands are given tax exemptions. These
and the possibility of charging higher prices to Brazilian settlers account
for the rapid growth of private settlements.  In such schemes, titles are
granted by the original landowners (on payment terms approved by IBR) and these
have to be recorded in the Agrarian Registrv maintained by IBR. Private owners
enforce stricter collection standards and consequently a higher proportion of
.s      settlers under such schemes have titles than in the case of IBR colonies.
Otherwise settlers under private colonization receive minimum assistance and



ANNEX 2
Page 18
supporting services. IBR encourages private colonization which it regards
as complementary to its own official settlement schemes. In fact, in the
Easte-;n Region during the period 1963 to 1972, private colonization schemes
involved an area more than one half as large as that covered in the same period
by the official settlement program carried oat by IBR.
D. Project Colonies
General
53.       Three IBR colonies, J.L. Mallorquin, Repatriacion and Gen. Stroessner
(better known under its old name of Pastoreo), are proposed for development
under the Project. They have been selected because of Government's specific
interest in their development for demonstration purposes and on locational
grounds. They lie in the center of the Eastern Region, between 150 km and
250 km from Asuncion on the paved highway from the capital to Puerto Presidente
Stroessner, where a bridge over the River Parana links Paraguay with Brazil.
The colonies are located near Mennonite and Japanese settlements, as well as
the specially administered public colony outside Puerto Presidente Stroessner
(Section C above and Map).
Basic Data
54.       The total area covered by the three colonies is estimated at 87,000
ha and they contain about 5,000 farm families with an average farm size of
17 ha (Annex 1). Of the total population of about 42,000, some 7,000 live
in the urban centers and 35,000 in the rural areas. The urban centers at
Mallorquin and Pastoreo have been recognized as third-grade municipalities;
that at Repatriacion has not yet reached this stage, but the colony is only
10 km away from the town of Caaguazu, which has a population of 25,000, post
and telecommunication facilities, electric power, potable water and primary
and secondary schools. Along the main highway which bisects the colony of
Mallorquin, much spontaneous ribbon development has taken place, and a second
urban center at J.E. O'Leary has now been recognized.
55.       Established in 1958 under IBR's predecessor agency (the Institute
of Agrarian Reform), the colony of Gen. Stroessner includes areas that have
been colonized under both public and private schemes. As a result, there is
less uniformity as to individual plot size, (the average holding in its private
settlement schemes is about 12 ha), and its shape is peculiar, but an ad-
ministrative entity undoubtedly exlcts, largely as a result of the concentra-
tion of services at the urban center of Pastoreo.



ANNEX 2
Page 19
56.       Mallorquin and Repatriacion were flrst settled by IBR in 1963.  As
its name implies, Repatriacion was intended for the settlement of Paraguayans
returning from Argentina and Brazil, but only 40% of the original settlers
remain, their vacant plots having been filled by settlers selected by IBR in
the normal way. Throughout Repatriacion and for plots within 1 km of the
highway in Mallorquin, the original plot size was 20 ha, elsewhere in Mallor-
quin plots of 25 ha were allocated.
Land Ownership and Titles
57.       In addition to the replacement by IBR of settlers leaving the
colonies, a process of fragmentation has occurred through inheritance and
transfer of portions of lots. Because of inadequate control and surveillance
at colony level, many of these changes remain unauthorized and unrecorded in
IBR's books at Asuncion. Including those who were granted free plots, it is
estimaLted that less than one-third of the present colonists have definite
titles to their land. Most of those that are buying under IBR's normal terms
(seven years including two years' grace) are in arrears, and because of weak-
nesses in IBR's collection methods, few farmers know the extent of their out-
standing debt for land purchase 1/. With the higher agricultural prices paid
in the past few years, collections have improved, as evidenced by the rise
in IBR's total receipts under the land sale account (para 39). It also shows
readiness on the part of the farmer to use additional cash resources to pay
for his land.
58.       To determine actual plot occupancy, land titles and outstanding
land purchase indebtedness, IBR is presently undertaking a field census in
all three colonies. 'When this census is completed, it will be necessary t6
comupare the resuilts with IBR's book records. To expedite this second phase
of the process, IBR would make sure that, under the current reorganization
of their accounts (para 22), priority is given to the un-dating of the
records relating to the three colonies. It will then be necessary to return
to the colonies to resolve cases where the census differs from the book
record, to regularize the position of settlers occunving plots -without
authority and finally to ensure that physical plot markings correspond to
the agreed ownership and allocation.
59.       This process will necessarily take some time to complete, but the
speed with which it is done will determine the rate of issue of new land
1/   According to IBR's records, the total outstanding land purchase debt by
colony is:
¢ Million   US$ '000
Repatriacion                             38          302
Gen. Stroessner                            7          56
Mallorquin                                37         294
Total:                              82          652
On this basis, the average debt of a settler to IBR would be about
( 24,000 (US$190).



ANNEX 2
Page 20
titles and thus the emergence of more farmers who would be eligible for medium-
and long-term credit under the Project. For this purpose a considerable
strengthening of existing field staff is called for and the Project would
p-ovide additional IBR persennel and transport in each colony. As a further
measure to ensure that the number of potential credit beneficiaries is
increased, IBR would extend to the three colonies the special arrangements
already applying to colonists in the Eje Norte zone (para 20). Under these
arrangements, IBR may issue titles to settlers who are cultivating a minimum
of 3 ha, have already paid at least 25% of the purchase price of their land,
do not own more than 25 ha, have satisfactory records as producers, and enter
into a separate agreement to repay to IBR the outstanding balance of the
purchase price of their land.
February 8, 1974
0



ANNEX 2
Table I
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institute of Rural Welfare (IBR)
Income and Expenditure Accounts 1969 - 1972
INCOME                              1969                     1970                     1971                    1972
¢looo          %        ¢'ooo          7%        ¢'ooo          %           l'ooo        %
A. Own Funds
1.  Forestry revenue               29,868       26.5        29,037       27.6       22,646       20.8        13,996       10.0
2. Land rents                       1,497        1.3         1,303        1.2           828       0.8          1,007       0.7
3. Other rentals                    4,721        4.2         6,407        6.1         5,027       4.6          6,295       4.5
4. Miscellaneous                     -            -           -            -            -           -         1,466         1.1
Sub-total                      36,086       32.o        36,747      34.9        28,501       26.2        22,764       16.3
5.  Sale of land                   60,583       53.7        52,067       49.4        63,o26      57.8        94,312       67.3
Total own funds                96,669       85.7        88,814       84.3       91,527       84.0       117,076       83.6
B.  Government (-rant                  16,200       14.3        16,600       15.7        17,400       16.0        23,000       16.4
Total ordinary income             112,869      100.0       105,414      100.0       108,927      100.0      140,076      100.0
C.  Extra-Crdinary Income  (contra)
World Food Program               21,688                   23,227                   12,815                   10,558
Agricultural surplus              4,562
(fund (PL 480)
26,250                  29,227                   12,815                   10,558
Total all income                  139,119        -         134,641        -         121,742        -        150,634
EXPENDITURE
1. Administration                  53,488       40.5        50,614      42.0        49,538       40.4        56,177       39.1
2.  Land costs                     20,735       15.7        24,129       20.0        17,599       14.4        18,076      12.6
3. Surveying and allotment
of plots                     6,471        4.9          8,251       6.9         5,514        4.5         4,754        3.3
4.  Cost of moving settlers         8,981        6.8         9,543        7.9         9,760        8.0         6,823       4.7
5.  Colony development             20,207       15.3        12,822       10.6        20,936       17.0        17,835
)18.4
6.  Colony development Eje Norte                                                                                        >
(part)                                                                      -                      8,619
7.  Consolidation of colonies       8,320        6.3         6,333        5.3         8,891        7.2         9,002       6.3
8. Reorganization of agencies,
transport etc.               5,415        4.1          3,805       3.2         2,358        1.9        10,351        7.2
9.  Financial costs                 8.452        6,L        4,948        4.1         8,073        6.6         12,180       8.4
Sub-tottal                    132,o69     100.0       120,445      100.0       122,669      100.0       143,819      100.0
10.  Extra-ordinary expenditure
Eje-Norte (contra)           26,250        -         29,227        -          12,815        -          10,558
Sub-total                     158,319        -         149,672        -        135,484        -         154,377
Deficit                        19,200                   15,031                   13,742                   3,743
Deficit after allowing for
depreciation and other ad-
justments                      27,200                   25,800                  19,5oo                   11,143
Source: IBR
November 31, 1973






? A R. A 3 U A Y
SMALL FARUfER CREDIT ADM RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Titles Issued by IBR and Predecessor Auencies in Paraggu
1915 - 1972
H                                               Titles                                            Average
1wo                            Titles           Issued                             Area          Size of Lot
Year                Issued         Cumulative          Area          Cumulative      (Cumulative)
(ha)             (ha)
1915-1957               14,289           14,289         349,524          349,52)4            24.5
1958                  1,198          15,487           31,888          381,412            24.6
1959                  2,710          18,197           75,954          457,366            25.1
1960                  3,205          21,402          101,795          559,161            26.1
1961                  7,250          28,652          165,808          724,969             25.3
1962                10,016           38,668          209,191          934,160            24.2
1963                  4,500           43,168         156,948        1,091,108            25.3
1964                  6,250          49,418          165,280        1,256,388            25.4
1965                  6,500          55,918          356,348        1,612,736             28.8
1966                  4,007          59,925          255,800        1,868,536             31.2
1967                  3,507          63,432          246,343        2,114,879            33.3
1968                 3,150           66,582          293,273        2,408,152            36.2
1969                  3,382           69,964         111,507        2,519,659            36.2
1970                  3,170           73,134         143,635        2,663,294             36.7
1971                  2,605           75,739         125,847        2,789,1141           37.1
1972                  2,281           78,020         182,129        2,971,270            38.4
Source:  Statistical Department, IBR.
(D>






ANNEX 3
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production and Marketing -f Commodities
to be Financed under the Project
Introduction
1.        Commodities included under the Project are maize, soybeans, cotton,
cassava, vegetables and cattle. Other commodities grown by farmers in the
three colonies, but not included in the farm model, include tobacco, beans,
sunflowers, carrots, potatoes, onions, garlic, mint, petit grain (extracted
from orange leaves) and hogs.
Production and Prices
2.        Maize is the second most important crop after cassava in. the diet
of people in the region. Total 1972 production was estimated at 209,000 tons.
Losses at farm level from vermin and disease are very high. Additional an-
nual average production from the Project at full development would be about
3,000 tons, equivalent to about 0 30 million (US$0.2 million) at farm-fate
prices as of March 1973. This would correspond to 1.4% of actual domestic
production.
3.        More than 90% of production is domestically consumed and only a
very small Portion is exported. Most of the exports go to Brazil and
Argentina, but the amount fluctuates widely from year to year. Exports
have varied between 1,000 tons (1972) and 26,000 tons (1971). Exportable
surpluses will continue to go Brazil and Argentina and market opportuni-
ties appear to be opening in Japan due to new trade links with Paraguay.
Farm-gate prices have risen to an average of about ¢ 10/kg during 1973.
Prices farmers receive vary widely from ¢ 3/kg at harvest to ¢ 12/kg or
higher in the off-season because of lack of storage facilities.
4.        Soybeans.  Soybean production in Paraguay has been rising rapidly,
increasing from 33,000 tons in 1969 to 97,000 tons in 1972. This has been
due entirely to an expansion of the area planted as yields declined from
1.5 tons per ha in 1969 to 1.3 tons per ha in 1972. The 1972/73 season
yielded about 97,000 tons of which approximately 40% was exported as beans,
and about 60% processed in Paraguay. The additional annual production from
the Project is expected to be about 5,000 tons, equivalent to ¢ 75.0 million
(US$0.6 million) at the producer price of ¢ 15/kg as of March 1973. This
incremental output would correspond to 5.3% of the present production level.
0



ANNEX 3
Page 2              0
5.        The processing capacity of the Paraguayan oil industry is about
900 tons of oilseeds per day and its degree of utilization hardly exceeds
70,.. Processors have a total storage capacity of 85,000 tons of beans. In
1972, production of unrefined oil reached 8,200 tons, an eight-fold increase
since 1964. Ninety-five percent of oil production is for local consumption.
The main by-product is soya flour; 33,000 tons were produced in 1971, mostly
by one processor, and most of it (27,000 tons) was exported.
6.        Exports are authorized by the Ministry of Agriculture provided
the supply for the local market is satisfied. The main export market is
Northern Europe and Argentina, but recently Brazil and Japan have been enter-
ing the market. International demand prospects for both beans and oil are
good as reflected in rising international prices from US$113 and US$197/ton
at the end of 1969 to US$210 and US$298/ton in the first six months of 1972
for beans and oil respectively. Minimum producer prices for soybeans de-
livered to the gate of the processing plant are fixed every year by Government
and have been 0 8 to 0 9 per kg in 1970, 0 10 to ¢11 per kg in 1971, 0 11
per kg in 1972 and 0 20 per kg in 1973.
7.        Cotton.  Paraguay produces mainly short fiber cotton.  Climatic
conditions which vary greatly from year to year, particularly during the time
of boll formation and picking, cause serious fluctuations in yield. Produc-
tion reached 37,500 tons of seed cotton in 1969/70 but fell sharply to 16,500
tons in 1970/71 because of bad weather. Production in 1971/72 recovered
to 38,000 tons and is expected to reach 45,000 tons by 1975. As a result
of the proposed Project, an incremental production of 3,000 tons is expected,
equivalent to about 0 57.0 million (USSO.5 million) at March 1973 farm-gate
prites of 0 19/kg.
8.        There are 10 cotton gins in Paraguay with a total capacity of
285,000 tons input and 95,000 tons of fiber output. Due to shortages of
seed cotton, only about 20% of installed capacity is used. A multipurpose
plant in Pilar is rated high among textile plants regarding modern machinery
and efficient management. Its capacity of 22,000 tons is only 17% utilized.
Paraguayan cotton is partly used for the domestic manufacture of yarn and
textiles, and partly exported. Textile manufacturers are faced with diffi-
culties in production, planning and management because of heavily fluctuating
supply, contraband, and lower priced imports from neighboring countries.
Cotton lint exports vary sharply from year to year with extremes of US$4.0
million in 1970 and US$0.8 million in 1971. The average export price per
ton was about US$313 in 1968, rising to US$500 in 1972. Uruguay is the
traditional market accounting for ahout 35% of fiber exports. Other buyers
include the United Kingdom, France, Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany
(since 1970). Most of the refined cotton seed oil is used locally. Exports
to Brazil started only in 1970 (300 tons) but are expected to expand.
Refined oil sold locally at about 0 40/liter (USSO.32) and exports in 1972
yielded a FOB return of C 44/kg (US$0.35). The guaranteed minimum price
is US$0.32/kg. Cotton seed cake is exported to European markets. Exports
reached their peak in 1970 when 7,570 tons of cake valued at US$446,000



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(US$59/ton) were shipped. The National Cotton Commission negotiates an
indicative minimum price for seed cotton with the large processors. In 1972,
prices for mixed grades were set at ¢ 22/kg (US$0.17) at the Encarnacion
plant, and at ¢ 23.5/ kg (US$0.19) at Asuncion.
9.         Cassava is grown principally as a subsistence crop.  There is lit-
tle surplus available for livestock feed or export, although both possibil-
ities exist. The tuber is a suitable carbohydrate source for animals, and
dried cassava chips could probably be exported to Europe where they are used
in animal feed preparations. Estimates on cassava production from the
Itinistry of Agriculture and the Central Bank differ considerably and official
figures suggest that output in 1972 was about 1.2 million tons.
10.        Cassava is generally grown on depleted soils which have been farmed
for long periods. Higher than average yields of 14 tons/ha are obtained in
newer areas, averaging around 20 tons/ha in the first year, and over 25 tons/ha
if the tubers are left in the ground up to two years. The price has been going
up steadily, rising from ¢ 1.5/kg in 1971, to 0 2.5/kg in 1972 and over 0 3/kg
in 1973. Additional annual average production from the proposed Project would
be about 42,000 tons of which 5,000 tons would be used as feed to support the
increased livestock on the farm, leaving some 37,000 tons, equivalent to about
0 170 million on (US$1.3 million) at the March 1972 farm-gate price of 0 4.0/kg
to be sold for cash. This incremental production volume would correspond to
3.5% of the 1972 output level.
11.        Vegetables or Essential Oils.  Farmers in the Project area are
expected to grow at least one high value crop such as a vegetable or essen-
tial oil plants. Tomatoes are one of the more profitable of a range of
vegetable crops grown in Paraguay. There is a firm domestic market for
vegetables, mainly in Asuncion; better quality tomatoes, garlic and essential
oils have a good export market in Brazil, Argentina and Europe. Some
producers near Asuncion have achieved high yields and maintain well managed
farms. In order to reduce existing disease problems, an intensive rotation
is required.
12.        Cattle slaughtered during 1972 amounted to 0.7 million head.
Cattle for the domestic market are slaughtered and processed mainly in one
of the 69 municipal slaughterhouses and a number of small independent op-
erators located near consumption areas. The meat is delivered directly from
the killing works to retailers and chain stores. Nine meat packing plants
act as direct exporters of meat and by-products. They are equipped with
adequate facilities for slaughter, processing and freezing. Until 1969,
most beef was exported as canned product but the trend since has been to
export frozen beef which sells at a higher price. An additional annual
beef production of 1,160 tons dressed weight, equivalent to 0 99.8 million
(US$0.8 million) at the mid-1973 farm-gate price of 0 43/kg liveweight, is
expected from Project beneficiaries. This incremental beef output would
correspond to 0.8% of the 1972 output level.



ANNEX 3
Page 4   
13.       Meat is the mainstay of Paraguay's export income.  In 1971/72,
it amounted in to 33% of the country's total exports. Main importers are
the USA and W4estern Europe. Following rising world demand and export prices,
the volume and value of beef exports have increased sharply. Since domestic
production, however, increased only insignificantly, the expansion of export
volumes has been mostly at the expense of domestic consumption. Per capita
consumption of beef decreased from some 40 kg between 1965 and 1970 to 29 kg
in 1972.
14.       During 1966-1970, producer prices were stable at about 0 20/kg
liveweight (US$0.16) but they rose to an average of 0 43/kg (US$0.34) in
March 1973. The price trend reflects world market rises, increased exports
of frozen boneless meat and increased competition of the meat plants for a
more or less stagnant production. Farmers in the Project area are in a good
location, compared to most cattle producing areas. They are only 150 km
from Asuncion on a paved road and cattle can be sold off all year round. In
the Project area, cattle can be finished on improved pasture and should gain
higher prices for superior quality. Feeder steers could also be brought in
from the Chaco for fattening. However, since this is a small-holder project
and most of Paraguay's beef production comes from large farms, small-holders
are, as yet, a comparatively insignificant source for beef.
Marketing
15.       Structure.  Agricultural produce from the three colonies are mar-
keted in several ways:
(a)  it is collected on the farms by merchants' trucks;
(b)  it is collected at deposit points by trucks which cannot
reach the farm because of impassable roads. In this case,
the goods have to be transported to the collection point
by farmers. Goods are carried on foot, horse back, or
drawn in carts by oxen. If the farmer does not own a
cart he can rent one to transport his produce to the
collection point, or to town for a charge of 0 1/kg;
(c)  it is bought by "farm stores" which serve as collection
points for farmers lacking road access. The produce is
"bought" by the store, usually trading in kind, then resold
to traders coming from town; and
(d)  it is carried by bus to town.  Numerous bus routes serve the
colonies to points where the roads become impassable. Farmers
carry, or cart their goods in bags which are carried in, or on
top of, the bus. The farmer, or a member of his family, usually
accompanies the goods to town where they are sold to local stores
or traders.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       Traders or merchants in the towns usually purchase colony produce
either for cash or in kind. They sell to larger merchants and traders in
Asuncion who can provide credit as required. In some cases, the town mer-
chant accumulates goods which are then sold in larger lots to processing
plants usually in Asuncion.
17.       The three colonies are located along the Asuncion--Pte. Stroessner
Highway--a sealed road of good quality measuring 327 km west to east across
the Eastern Region. Goods can move easily along this road as trucks and
buses traverse it constantly. From Asuncion, produce can move down the
river to Argentina, or across the river to Clorinda, then by road to
Buenos Aires. On the eastern side, goods can pass by bridge, or barge,
over the Parana River to Brazil where they can move by road or rail to Rio
de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
18.       Difficult transportation conditions in the colonies, low volume
transactions and the lack of storage facilities, price information and a
grading system are major factors for high marketing costs and a wide spread
between producer and consumer prices.
19.       To improve the efficiency of the marketing system, Government
plans to emphasize expansion of marketing facilities, intensification of col-
lection and dissemination of marketing information and on promotion of market-
ing cooperatives. Government efforts to improve marketing facilities include
MAG's silo program which would add to the existing silo capacity of 13,700
tons another 14,000 tons of intermediate and 18,000 tons of terminal storage
capacity. In addition, there is a 0 300 million (US$2.4 million) storage project
supported by an IDB loan of US$1.4 million. IBR also has plans to add another
10,000-ton terminal unit and three intermediate storage units with a combined
capacity of 7,000 tons. If IBR's plans materialize, the Project area would
benefit directly from these facilities.  Government plans include also the
establishment of a central market in Asuncion. Official efforts to improve
market transparency center around the newly established marketing division
in MG which, assisted by USAID, attempts to collect and disseminate information
on supply, demand and prices for agricultural products.
20.       Cooperative marketing efforts are encouraged by MAG, IBR, BNF,
CAI and IICA (Interamerican Institute for Agricultural Sciences). There
are some 200 cooperatives with about 20,000 member farmers in the country
and since the new cooperative law was passed in 1972, about 25 new ones
have been formed. Starting usually as marketing committees with some 25 to 30
farmers, they are assisted by the above institutions and are recognized even-
tually as cooperatives by MAG's Department of Cooperatives. As such, they enjoy
freedom from paying import, export and income taxes but are obliged to use
10% of any profit to build up reserves and 5% of profits for educational
purposes. Since 1972, there is also a secondary cooperative, UNIPACO, which
thus far has 20 recognized local cooperatives as members for which it sells
(on internal and external markets) and supplies inputs including imports.
*    is assisted by USAID.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
21.       As all these efforts to improve marketing are relatively new, their
effects in general, and on the Project area in particular, have been marginal
thus far. It is, however, expected that once these prograns are successfully
implemented marketing should improve considerably, particularly with the
improvement of the colonies' internal road system and provision of the
techrical assistance provided for by the Project.
February 8, 1974



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A      
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELUOPMEET PROJECT
oan  NRacional do F-nento
UrIert Aceturash Fine
Year:,- ......           1             2           3            4            5            6            7            R            9           10           11           12           13           14         15-20          Total
IEA Credit tr--sfe-red by                     121,000      221,000      241,aOO      180,00        4        0,000                                                        -            -            -            -            -            -        803,000
Governsent
Government contribution                        60,000       60,000       60,000       49,000            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -       229,000
Repayments of invest-mot nob-loans                  -            -       19,050       47,620       76,190       95,240       95,240      95,240        84,340       68,010      43,530        20,390        8,150            -             -       653,000
Interest no investmnnt sob-loans (12%)          7,840       27,424       49,792       65,384     f8 .    55,504             44,072       32,644       21,872        12,728        6,036        2,200          488            -            -         391,772
Repayments of carbin0 capital sob-loans        37,890      132,615      246,205       4  0           0         379,000      379,000     379,000       379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      189,500             -     4,358,350
Interest on werkin8 capitaI sob-loons
02%)  -ssoning  o.ns ate for 8 mnobhs           3,032       10.606       19,704       27.284       30.320       30.320       30,320       30,320       30,3020      30 320       30I32        301320       30,320       15,160             -        348,66
Total Inflow:                         2           451.645      635,831      710,348      591,290                  8    632       37,204      515,532  4 906                         g5U ,                     204,660             -      6,783.788
OUTFLOW
Investment loans to sab-borrosors             130,600      195,900      195,900      130,600            ,            -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -            -        653,000
Working capital loots to so.b-brroe            75,780      189,40  _      3,120      379 0           0.        379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000      379,000             -            -      4,300,310
Aoocoo.ncmneoso   iccosn   of                                                                    _ -
provision for bad dobln)/l                    5,,36       19,015       34,748       46,334       44,cS*       42,91z       37,196       31,482       26,096       21,5:4      1I,10-8       l6,26        15,404        7,580             -        370,219
Int-r-st on 142- f-nds                          3,025       11,575       03,125       33,650       39,150       40,150       37,474       34,797       37,120       29,444       26,767       24,091       21,415       18,738       56,222         431,743
Repayment on  DA fords                               -            -                                      -     _53, 530      53,530              53,530       53,53      Q          530       53,530       33,330       53,530      5321,230        003,000
Total Outflow:                        714,841     4I5,340      556,893      509,584      466,204      515,592      507,200      498,809      490,746      483 4498  477,475         472 ,881     469,349        79,848      366 16,312
Net Cooh Inflow (Outflow)                        14,921       35,705       78,938      120,764      125,094       44,472       41,432       38,395       24,786        6,560      t18,589)    (40,971)    (51,391)    124,812         (377,452)              -
Cu.nlatiee Cash Inflow                           14,921       50,626      129,564      250,328      375,422      419,894      461,326      499,721      524,507      531,067      512,478      471,507      420,116       544,928      167,476
Li Sin percent of ae-ra-g nob-loan balancen eotstandin8.






ANNEX 5
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements Estimate
(in US$ w000)
IBRD                       Disbursements                Cumulative
Fiscal Year                       during                  Disbursements
and Quarter                   quarter EndWing           at End of Quarter
1975
3rd                             30d-l                        300
1th                             400                          700
1976
lst                             600                        1,300
2nd                             700                        2,000
3rd                             850                        2,850
'th                             900                        3,750
1977
ist                              900                       4,650
2nd                             900                        5,550
3rd                             900                        6,,450
kth                              800                       7,250
1978
1st                             700                        7,950
2nd                              700                       8,650
3rd                             700                        9,350
4th                              600                       9,950
1979
1st                             450                       10,1400
2nd                             300                       10,700
3rd                             200                       10,900
4th                             100                       11,000
A   Estimated date of credit signing, September 1974.
Estimated date of effectiveness, December 1971.
Apr-1 18, 1974






ANNEX 6
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit in Paraguay
General
1.        Institutional credit to the agricultural sector in Paraguay is
provided by the banking system and, to a minor extent, by a small-farmer
credit institution and a development finance corporation. A reportedly
substantial but unquantifiable amount of non-institutional credit is pro-
vided by traders and agricultural produce merchants.
Institutional Credit
2.        Framework.  The banking system is controlled by the Central Bank
of Paraguay (CB) within the terms of the General Banking Law (Decree Law
No. 20 of March 1952). Banking institutions subject to the General Banking
Law are the state-owned Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF) and ten commercial
banks. A number of non-bank financial institutions such as insurance
companies, pension funds, a state-owned small-farmer credit institution
Credito Agricola de Habilitacion (CAH) and a privately owned development
corporation Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo (COMDESA), are subject to
certain provisions of the General Banking Law and to the control of CB.
3.        Central Bank of Paraguay (CB).  CB was established in 1952 when the
now defunct Bank of Paraguay was relieved of its central banking functions.
GB's principal duty is to apply monetary, credit and exchange policies. Among
its more important functions are the control of the currency issue, the
establishment of bank interest rates on both deposits and loans, the deter-
mination and enforcement of statutory reserve requirements and, through the
Superintendency of Banks which forms part of CB, the supervision of the banking
system and of other institutions subject to the General Banking Law. CB is also
empowered by law to advise on all domestic and foreign borrowing by the Govern-
ment although its opinion may be overruled by the National Council for Economic
Coordination. CB provides rediscount facilities to the banking system and
provides substantial loan finance to BNF. Fondo Gandero (FG), which was
established within CB to hold and manage Bank/IDA financed funds for livestock
production, is the principal source of medium- and long-term credit to the
livestock sub-sector.
4.        Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF).  BNF is Paraguay's largest banking
institution holding 50% of the country's loan balances and 12% of the de?osits
held by the banking system. It is the major source of medium- and long-term
development loans and is, by far, the most important source of credit to the
*   agricultural sector.  During the year ended December 31, 1972, BNF granted



ANNEX 6
Page 2
loans for agricultural purposes (excluding livestock) totalling ¢ 1,542 million
(US$12.2 million) which represented 69% of total bank credit extended to the
subSsector during the year. BNF, which has 36 branches and agencies distribu-
ted throughout the country, is described in more detail in Annex 7.
5.        Commercial Banks.  Of the ten commercial banks operating in Paraguay,
eight are affiliates of foreign banks. All have their principal offices in
Asuncion where there are also 17 branch offices; there are 26 branch offices
located at 14 towns outside the capital. The commercial banks lending opera-
tions are financed by deposits from the private sector and by short-term re-
volving credits from abroad. The bulk of these funds is channeled into the
commercial and industrial sectors which absorb 67% and 17% respectively of
commercial bank lending. Historically, the commercial banks have been re-
luctant to finance lending in agriculture because of the relatively high risks.
However, there has been some increase in lending to the agricultural sector
in recent years, principally for livestock fattening and, since mid-1972, in
response to higher agricultural product prices, for agricultural production
but this has been essentially of a short-term nature and highly selective.
In March 1972, by Resolution No. 40, CB required commercial banks to restructure
their lending portfolios so that 25% would comprise loans to industry, 20% to
exports and 5% to agriculture. Loans made under the new policy, which was to
be fully implemented by April 1973, must be of a minimum maturity of 240 days
with an interest rate of 10% per annum. In addition, banks are permitted to
charge a commission of 2% on 240 day loans, 2.5% on 240 to 360 day loans and
3% on loans in excess of 360 days. Banks may rediscount with CB 20% of loans
made under Resolution No. 40 at a rate of 5% per annum. As a result of the
lower interest and commission rates now permitted on half their portfolios
(interest rates of 12% per annum and unrestricted commission rates, often as
high as 8% per annum, are permitted on their other lending) commercial banks
have been obliged to reduce the rate of interest paid to depositors by one
percentage point per annum. Rates now range from 5% per annum on savings
accounts to 7% per annum on 12-month fixed deposits. However, as banks are
required to maintain statutory deposits with CB equivalent to 42% of all de-
mand, savings and time deposits, the effective cost of such funds to the banks
is between 8.6% and 12%. Commercial bank lending to the agricultural sector
(excluding livestock) in 1972 amounted to 0 683 million (US$5.4 million) compared
with ¢ 383 million (US$3.0 million) in the previous year. The 1972, lending to
agriculture represented 3.3% of the banks total lending during the year but the
year end balance of loans outstanding to the agricultural sector (excluding
livestock) amounting to 0 515 million (US$4.1 million) formed 6.1% of the
commercial banks total lending portfolio.
6.        Credito Agricola de Habil1:-c on (CAH).  CAH is an autonomous
public institution operating under the overall authority of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It was founded in 1943 to provide credit and other services
to snall farmers and operated in this area until 1960 when a bad repayment
position compelled it to restrict its activities to loan collections. CAH
recommenced lending at the end of 1969 when CB agreed to reschedule an old
.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
debt of 0 14C million (US$1.1 million) and to provide new resources while
Government agreed to make an annual budgetary allocation to assist with
operating expenses. CAH has made some progress since it restarted lending but
it is short of working capital and lacking in staff and, therefore, is not
likely to make a significant impact on agriculture credit availability unless
these deficiencies are rectified. CAH prov-des short-term (six to eight months)
production credit to members of newly-formed farmers' associations at an interest
rate of 9% per annum plus a 2% commission fee. Loan disbursements increased
from 0 2.9 million (US$23,000) in 1969 to 0 31.3 million (US$248,000) in 1972.
Collections on the new loans up to end 1972 averaged 79% of amounts due.
7.        Compania Paraguaya de Desarrollo, S.A. (COMDESA).  COMDESA, a
private development bank established in Asuzlcion, commenced operations in
March 1971. It has an authorized and paid-:n share capital of 0 126 million
(US$1 million) half of which is owned by private shareholders, one-quarter
by local commercial banks and one-quarter by Adela Investment Co., S.A. In
addition to its paid-in capital, COMDESA's resources include a Government
loan of 0 50 million (US$0.4 million) and a USAID loan of US$2.6 million.
COMDESA's policy is to finance investments in development-oriented projects
including, where necessary, feasibility studies and technical assistance. At
December 31, 1972, COMDESA had approved 103 loans totalling 0 476 million
(US$3.8 million) of which 35% was for agriculture and livestock and 33% for
agro-industries. More than 70% of COMDESA loans are of long-term (five to 10
years) maturity while the remainder are for mediuni term (two to five years).
Interest rates are fixed at 10% per annum for loans expressed in US dollars
and 12% per annum for loans expressed in Guaranies.
Non-Institutional Credit
8.        The incidence of non-instututional credit provided by shopkeepers,
agricultural input suppliers and produce merchants is reported to be high
and a serious obstacle to the recovery of seasonal credit granted to small-
scale agriculturalists. It is the practice for entrepreneurs who have granted
credit to farmers, either in the form of subsistence goods or farm inputs,
to visit farms at harvest time and collect their dues in the form of produce;
usually at below market prices. To obviate the ill-effects of this system,
which substantially reduces farm incomes, it would be necessary for sub-
borrowers under the proposed Project to be provided with sufficient seasonal
credit to enable them to avoid having recourse to non-institutional credit.
February 11, 1974






ANNEX 7
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
General
1.        Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF), a Government-owned autonomous
entity under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, was established by
Paraguay. Its stated objectives are "to promote and finance general pro-
programs and specific projects to develop agriculture, livestock, forestry
industry and commerce."
Administrative Council
2.        BNF is governed by an administrative council comprising a president
and seven members. The president, who is BNF's legal representative, is
appointed by the Government with the agreement of the state council for a
period of five years. The other council members, who are appointed in the
same way but for a three-year renewable term, comprise one representative
from each of the Ministries of Finance, Agriculture and Industry and Commerce,
a representative of the Central Bank and three representatives of the agri-
cultural, livestock and industrial sectors. The council is responsible for
formulating BNF policy and regulations and for the approval of programs,
budgets and accounts.
Organization and Management
3.  (a)  the Commercial and Savings Department which has a paid-in capital
of 0 247 million (US$2.0 million) and is responsible for all
normal commercial banking operations. This department receives
current, fixed and savings deposits from the public and, like
private commercial banks, is subject to the Central Bank (CB)
regulation requiring that 42% of all such deposits be lodged in
a statutory reserve account with CB. As a result of the high
reserve requirement the actual cost of deposits ranges from
10.3% to 13.8% per annum. During 1973, deposits from the
public, of all types, increased by 0 636 million (US$5.0 million)
or 43% over 1972. Funds are also obtained by way of loans from
CB and other internal and external sources. The Commercial and
Savings Department makes overdrafts and short-term advances,
rarely exceeding six months maturity, for commercial and
industrial purposes. Nominal interest rates range from 10% to
12% per annum but effective rates inclusive of commissions
are from 11% to 16% per annum;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b) the Development Department which has a paid-in capital of G576
million (US$4.6 million) provides mainly medium-term (up to
five years) and long-term (five to 12 years) loans for agri-
cultural, industrial and other types of investment of a
development nature at effective interest rates ranging
from 9% to 13% per annu. Sources of funds are loans from
the CB, transfers from Government on account of the out-
standing portfolio of the former Banco del Paraguay and
external loans; and
(c) The agriculture and Livestock Department with a paid-in capital
of ¢ 700 million (US$5.6 million) provides investment and
seasonal credit to crop and livestock farmers mainly under
a series of programs partly financed by external agencies.
The most significant of these programs, both in terms of
volume of lending and impact on BNF finances, is the national
grain program initiated in 1966. Under this program, which
was initiated by Government in 1966 to increase local pro-
duction of wheat and other food grains, BNF hurriedly made
large loans for up to 100% of project cost to mainly abaentee
landowners who, in most cases, had little or no experience of
grain cultivation. Pre-loan appraisal was minimal with the
result that wheat was planted on land totally unsuited to
wheat production.  There was a large degree of over-investment
in machinery and, reportedly, substantial funds were misused.
The ma£;sive default which has resulted from this ill-conceived
and grossly mismanaged program has virtually decapitalized
BNF (para 13).
4.        A more successful scheme administered by BNF has been the Agricul-
ture and Livestock Promotion Program (PPA) which has been partly financed
by three IDB loans totalling US$16.9 million. During the 10 years ended
December 31, 1972, BNF granted about 38,000 loans amounting to ¢ 3.8
billion (US$30.2 million) under the PPA of which one-third was for seasonal
credit and two-thirds for on-farm investment. Seasonal credit is granted
against land mortgage for up to 12 years inclusive of a four-year grace
period. Interest rates on loans made under the PPA are 9% per annum with
a commission of 1% of the loan.
5.        The Agriculture and Livestock Department departs from BNF's
general policy of only lending to farmers with land titles in the case of
loans to small farmers, particularly settlers, made under specific agree-
ments with Instituto de Bienestar RursI (TBR) and Credito Agricola de
Habilitacion (CAI) and to a few cooperatives which are being developed by
AID financed technical assistance.  Under the IBR agreement, BNF makes loans
to settlers in specified colonies including Repatriacion, Mallorquin and
General Stroessner (the Proiect colonies) securec oby IBR guarantee. Lending
in the Project colonies which started in 1965 averaged f 13.8 million



ANNEX 7
Page 3
*    (US$109,000) per annum until 1971 but, in 1972, lending increased sharply
and, from January 1972 to September 1973, a total of 1,446 loans amounting
to 0 63.8 million (US$506,000) representing an annual average of i 36 million
(US$286,000) were made.
6.        In addition to the three operating departments, BNF has an Admin-
istration Department which it is intended will perform all accounting and
administrative functions on behalf of the operating departments. The Admin-
istration Department at present processes deposits, current accounts and
personnel salaries and it is intended that it will take over the maintenance
of loEn accounts in 1974. Each of the departments is headed by an executive
director appointed by the administrative council. Executive directors are
required to attend all meetings of the administrative council.
Staffing
7.        Staff at December 31, 1972 totaled 832 of whom nearly half had less
than five years' service with BNF. The staff, although generally of good
calibre, is numerically excessive, particularly at the head office, in re-
lation to BNF's activities. Furthermore, the large majority comprises
accountants and clersk while there are insufficient technical staff to give
adequate coverage to borrowers in the agricultural sector. At the end of
1972, BNF employed only 17 veterinarians, of whom 14 were seconded to work
with Fondo Ganadero, 37 agricultural graduates and 27 agricultural techni-
cians. Staff salaries are similar to those of the Central Bank and private
banks and are higher than those paid by Government and semi-Government agencies
for comparative levels of work.
Brancl;es
8.        BNF has a network of 21 branches and 16 sub-branches widely spread
throughout Paraguay. The Project area is served by a branch at Caaguazu and
a sub-branch at Mallorquin which is under the direct authority of the Asuncion
head office.
CapS.Lal and Reserves
9.        The Decree Law under which BNF was established set its wuthorize6
capital at 0 1,500 million (US$11.9 million) to be wholly owned by Government.
Initially V 345 million (US$2.7 million) of the authorized capital was sub-
scribed from portfolio assets of the defunct Bank of Paraguay but, as part
of this subscription comprised a portion of the largely delinquent loan
portfolio of the Bank of Paraguay, BNF was extremely short of operating caoital
from the outset. The authorized capital was increased by 0 600 million (US$
4.8 million) in 1966 and by a further 0 500 million (US$4.0 millicr, in 1973.
Subscribed capital was provided at an average annual rate of 0 127 million
(US$1 million) from the following: budgetary allocations, interest collections



ANNEX 7
Page 4
on Bank of Paraguay loans and 20% of Central Bank annual net profits. At
December 31, 1973, capital totalled 0 1,523 million (US$12 million). The
distribution of capital between departments was as follows:
D epartment                         Authorized       Subscribed
- - - (O Million)
Commercial and Savings                  400              247
development                            1,000             567
Agriculture and Livestock              1,200             700
Total:                           2,600            1,523
10.       BNF's law provides for the establishment of reserves on the
following basis:
(i)  Development Department:  Net profit to be allocated to a
reserve for bad debts until it reaches 10% of the portfolio;
thereafter, to other reserves as necessary until total
reserves reach 50% of authorized capital when net profits
will be transferred to capital.
(ii) Commercial and Savings Department: Net profit to be shared
equally between capital and reserves.
11.       No reserve requirements are stipulated for the Agriculture and
Livestock Department.  In addition to its legal reserves, BNF has established
specific reserve accounts as follows:
(i)  revaluation reserve to make provision for the revaluation of
the head office building;
(ii)  exchange risk reserve which has been set up in connection with
two IDB loans and is maintained by allocations equivalent to
one-sixth of the gross earnings on sales of goods related to
these loans; and
(iii) special social and financial aid reserve which is linked with
a loan from Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau and is maintained
by annual allocations equivalent to 1.5% of the outstanding
balance of this loan with the object of providing funds to
finance other projects.
12.       Reserve account balances at December 31, 1973 totalled 0 270 million
(US$2.1 million) and reserves plus retained unallocated earnings were equiv-
alent to 18% of BNF's paid-in capital. BNF makes additional provision for
bad debts by annual transfers to an allowance for doubtful loans account.
The amount of the annual transfer is based on a management assessment of the



ANNEX 7
Page 5
portfolio. At December 31, 1973, provisions for bad debts totalled ¢ 847
million (US$6.7 million) which was equivalent to 9.3% of BNF's portfolio,
including interest receivable, after transfer of the wheat program loans to
Government account (para 18). The bad debt provision in relation to the BNF
portfolio inclusive of wheat program loans was 7.9%.
Resources
13.       BNF has been chronically short of working capital since its
establishment and has been obliged to use borrowed funds to finance the major
part of its lending activities throughout its history. Since the failure
of the wheat program (paras 3 and 18), which resulted in loans totalling
more than BNF's paid-in capital being tied up in overdue loans, BNF has had
to rely entirely on deposits from the public, Central Bank financing and
external borrowings to finance its lending operations.
14.       Deposits are received by the Commercial and Savings Department and
are subject to CB's statutory deposit.requirement of 42%. During the five
years ended December 31, 1972, BNF's deposits increased from ¢ 964 million
(US$7.7 million) to 0 1,488 million (US$12 million), an increase of 57%
over tile period compared with a 106% increase in deposits held by private
banks. This reflected the preference given by depositors to the private
banks which are in a position to grant commercial loans immediately whereas
BNF, because of its liquidity problems, cannot always satisfy applicants
quickly. However, during the first eight months of 1973, BNF's deposits
increased by 55% to 0 2,300 million (US$18.3 million) compared with a 20%
increase recorded by private banks. This was due to the fact that, early in
the year, new CB regulations had restricted the private banks portfolio earnings
causing them to reduce their deposit interest rates to one percentage point
below those offered by BNF. As a result of the substantial increase in
deposits held by BNF, its share of total deposits with the banking system
which amounted to ¢ 16,427 million (US$130 million) at August 31, 1973 was
14.3% corpared with 11.5% at the end of 1972. BNF's deposit interest rates
during the third quarter of 1973 were 6% per annum on savings deposits, 7% per
annum on deposits fixed for six months and 8% per annum on 12 months deposits.
15.       BNF receives finance from the Central Bank either by way of loans
for specific purposes or under rediscount facilities up to annually agreed
limits. Obligations to the Central Bank have increased substantially since
the beginning of 1971 and at December 31, 1973 totalled ¢ 1,717 million
(US$13.6 million) comprising ¢ 749 million (US$5.9 million) in long-term
loans and i 968 million (US$7.7 million) in short-term loans and rediscounts.
Interest charges on CB finance are 5% per annum for loans for agricultural
purposes and 6% per annum for other loans and for rediscounts. Additionally,
CB holds ¢ 43 million of BNF 5% development bonds repayable by annual instal-
lments until 1976.
.



ANNEX 7
Page 6
16.       External borrowing comprises short-term credits from foreign com-
mercial banks and long-term loans from international and bilateral agencies
and foreign suppliers of agricultural equipment and inputs. External
indebtedness amounted to ¢ 5,381 million (US$42.7 million) at end 1972,
an increase of 17.7% over the previous year, of which ¢ 625.9 million (US$4.9
million) represented short-term credits. Interest rates on external borrow-
ings range from 0.75% to 16% per annum. Details of external loans are shown
in Table 2.
Financial Situation
17.       BNF's financial situation is very weak due to a number of factors
the most significant of which are an inadequacy of equity capital in relation
to the volume of its operations and a high rate of default. The bank has
been plagued with a shortage of working capital since its establishment
(para 13) but this has been aggravated by poor asset management caused,
in part, by circumstances outside the control of BNF staff. Assets have
been broken up in long-outstanding receivables, including balances owing
by the Government of Paraguay and its Ministries, with the consequence that
BNF has been obliged to rely, increasingly, on borrowed funds to finance
its operations.
18.       The massive default on the national grain program portfolio (para
3) amounting to more than BNF's paid-in capital tends to overshadow the
weaknesses in the financial situation. At the end of 1972, the loans of
104 national grain program borrowers totalling ¢ 1,473 million (US$11.7
million) together with overdue interest,amounting to ¢ 391 million (US$3.1
million); a total of 0 1,864 million (US$14.8 million) were transferred to
a special account in the name of the Government. This transfer was made on
the basis that, under the provisions of Article 12 of the BNF law, Government
is responsible for operating losses incurred by the Agriculture and Livestock
Department and, as the loans were deemed irrecoverable, Government should
assume liability for them. In the accounts for the year ended December 31,
1972, the transferred loans appeared in the BNF balance sheet as a debt due
by Government outside the loan portfolio. One apparent effect of this
transfer was to reduce the arrears content of Agriculture and Livestock
Department loan portfolio from 36.8% to 10.2%. However, Government sub-
sequently refused to accept responsibility for the transferred loans insist-
ing that BNF make greater efforts to reduce the outstandings by rescheduling
the loans and increasing its recovery efforts. Repayments and loan reschedul-
ing reduced the amount of national grain program loans outstanding on Govern-
ment account at December 31, 1973, to ¢ 1,682 million (US$13.3 million) at
December 31, 1973 comprising principal of ¢ 1,313 million (US$10.5 million)
and interest of ¢ 359 million (US$2.8 million) and BNF was optimistic that,
in view of the improved prices being received by crop farmers, at least half
of the outstanding amount could be recovered by rescheduling the loans and
a further substantial amount by legal action.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
*   19.        RNF has received five IDB loans, amounting to US$19.9 million
equivalent. and technical assistance for US$0.6 million. A total of US$16.9
million from the above loans was allocated to agriculture (Loans 49/TF-PR
in 1963: 119/SF-PR in 1969; and 295/SF-PR in 1971). In using funds from
these three loans, BNF has made some 46 000 agricultural loans for a total
loan amount of US$43.8 million equivalenit. This represents an average sub-
loan of US$950. By December 31, 1973, some 21,000 loans for US$22.2 million
had been fully repaid. From the outstanding portfolio of 24,000 loans, amount-
ing to US$21.6 million, only 3,400 loans for US$1.2 million were in arrears,
representing 5.5% of the outstanding portfolio.
Operations
20.       BNF provides annually around 17% of all bank credit in Paraguay
but the volume of its lending to the agricultural sector, excluding livestock,
during the four-year period 1969-1972 constituted 82% of the total. Its
year end portfolio of loans outstanding to the crop sub-sector rose from
¢ 2,804 million (US$22 million) to ¢ 4,804 million (US$38 million). This
portfolio was always more than 90% of total bank loans outstanding to the
crop sub-sector. This reflects the longer maturity period of BNF loans
compared to those of the commercial banks.
Accounts and Audit
21.       Separate accounts are maintained for each department and later
consolidated. Accounts are well kept but statistical information is inadequate
and information on such matters as arrears only become available after the
close of the financial year. By the end of 1972, the administrative depart-
ment had computerized deposits, current accounts and personnel salaries.
The administrative department will take over the loan accounts when additional
equipment becomes available which was expected in early 1974 and should
result in the ready availability of much more statistical information.
Internal auditing is done by BNF's audit section which is located at the
head office in Asuncion and has a staff of 15. External control is exercised
by the Superintendent of Banks and the accounts are audited annually by the
reputable Argentinian firm of Harteneck, Lopez y Cia.
February 8, 1974






P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Lending to the Agricultural Sector
(in ¢ Million)
Loans Granted                                            Year End Balances
Agriculture    Livestock        Sector Total               Agriculture    Livestock         Sector Total
O      1969
Banco Nacional de Fomento                  1,883.9          388.2           2,272.1                   2,804.4/1         509.2           3,313.6
Commercial Banks                             104.6        1,606.4           1,711.0                      41,2           587.4             628.6
Fondo Ganadero                                 -            141.3             141.3                        -          1,526.0
Total:                                                       _5 2,135.9                        6 2        _       4_
1970
Banco Nacional de Fomento                  1,372.4          248.4           1,620.8                   3,518.3/1         651.7           4,170.0
Commercial Banks                             155.1        1,653.9           1,809.0                      101.6          630.0             731.6
Fondo Ganadero                                 -            575.2              575.2                       -          1,874.0           1,874.0
Total:                       1,5275         24   543,61,                                                  3155.7
1971
Banco Nacional de Fomento                  1,368.5          432.8           1,801.3                    3,984.6/1        730.2           4,714.8
Commerical Banks                             383.2        1,638.1           2,021.3                      170.6          876.4            1,047.0
Fondo Ganadero                                 -            236.2              236.2                       -          2,016.0            2,016.0
Total:                       1,751.7        2 307 1           4,058.8                   42155.2         3,622.6           7,777.8
1972
Banco Nacional de Forento                  1,541.8          210.4           1,752.2                   4,803.6/1         864.7            5,668.3
Commercial Banks                             682.7          912.2            1,594.9                     515.2          675.7            1,190.9
Fondo Ganadero                                 -            690.5              690.5                       -          2,352.0            2,352.0
Total:                       2,225          1    .4,037.6                                5,318.8        3,892.4            9,211.2         ..2
/1 Includes loans made under the national grain program.
Source:  Central Bank, Banco Nacional de Fomento and Fondo Ganadero



ANNEX 7
Table 2
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B-co N-acional de Fomento
External Borrowings at December 31, 1972
Am.on.t of Loan                  Loan Balance
in Foreign            in Foreign                in 73            Payments Doe           Interent
Corrency             C[senecy               EquivaueL t            Wi this               Rate                Mat-rity
('000)                 ('000)             one Year              (% p.a.)              Period
S IS_11,lE It EM
Cooorllrciol & Eaciig.s Department:
Ocritsclc S,,dooerikasliscl:e Bank, H-lrbrg US$   820           US$   820                 103,320             103,320                 8.75                 1973
DM  6,000            DM  3,350                131,990              131,990                 8.25                 1973
Deflikets 'Iris:                          3US$ 2,000            1S$ 2,000                252,000             252,00n                 8.00                 1973
Siac,k 'I AroctSito                        US$   500            US8   300                  37,800              37,800                 7.25                 1973
13anca d',ic    dFtaia                         1,226            FS    409                  13,734              13,734                 7.00                 1973
C-cdit lyU.nnais                            U$ 2,000             US5   616                 77,60f.              77,606                 7.00                1973
Bonk of A-erica                            US$ 1,000            uS$    75                   9,450                9,450                7.25                 1973
'[ta 101625,900                                                                                           625,900
MED! IUM 6 .l)C TERM
Conm,ercia'   Saings and Developmeet
Derpar 110 to:
Ba-mo lolandes Unido                       us$ 1,500             0SS 1,500                189,000              63,000          London rate + 1.50          1975
Back of America                            US$ 1,500            US$ 1,250                 157,500              63,000          London rate + 1.50          1975
Adela                                      US$ 1,000             US$   750                 94,500 )                            London rate + 2.75           1975
)---43 ,260
Adela                                      US$   280             US$   280                 35,280 3                                   11.50                 1975
[D10    2 SF-PR                            US$ 3,000            US$    23                   2,973               2,680                 5.75                 1974
IDE!  44 SF-PR                             US$ 4,000            US$ 2,435                306,783               43,826                 4.00                 1979
TDB   97 SP-PR                             IS$   700            US$   339                 42,657                4,266                 3.25                 1982
IDB  211 SF-PR                             us$ 4,000            US$ 2,267                 284,922              23,743                 3.25                 1984
KREDITANSTALT Ifur WIEDERAUF3AU            DM 12,000             DM  5,186                204,339              45,310                 5.50                 1978
DM 12,000            DM  9,136                359,937               31,520                 5.50                 1986
"   "O"RDM 10,000                               DM  1,942                  7G,521                  -                  5.50                 2001
Banco do Brasil                            US$ 1,000            US$ 1,000                126,000                   -          London rate + 2              1978
Total                                                                               1,880,412               320,605
Agriculture & Livestock Department:
IDB  49 TF-PR                              US$ 2,900            US$ 2,133                268,764               22,075                 1.25                 1982
1DB 119 SF-PR                              US$ 6,000            USS 5,441                685,519               35,163                 2.25                 1992
IDB 295 SF-PR                              US$ 8,000            US$ 3,422                431,162                   -                  2.25                 1995
AID 526 L-012                              US$ 3,000             US$ 3,000                377,969                  -                  0.75                 2004
AID 526 L-012A                             US$ 1,000             US$   845                106,418                  -                   2.00                2002
AID 526 L-012B                             us$ 5,000             us$ 2,067                260,390                  -                  4.50                 1994
AID Agricultural Surplos                       -                     -                    119,783               2,095                  0.75                1990
Eximbank                                   US$ 3,000            US$ 2,517                 317,135               15,004                6.00                 1982
Banco de la NRone Argentina                US$ 7,000            us$   283                  35,596                  -                  6.00
Banco do Brasil                            Us$10,000                   -                      -                    -
Sub-total                                                                          2,602,736
Soppliers' Credit                          US$11,750            US$11,750                 272,340           _156,441
Totals                                                                             2,875,076              230,778
Crand totals                                                                       5,381,388            1,127,283
Deceeber 14, 1973



SMAL). PASR CREDIT AM5 SEASL R9RO-N   PROJECT
Oslse-  Sh.et  s5Rcebe  1   1968-1973 lbr-os) s-,  1974-1977 (Prolctd)
Itt N 85l15o9
1968                 1969                  1970                 1971                 1972                  1973                 1974                 1975                  1976                 1977
Cash oR Bond so  RIth  -eks                                    201                  164                   243                  268                  230                   762                  261                   230                  264                   2211
leer PortfolIo,                             ~~~~~~                ~~~~~~               ~~~~4^09  5,803  7,117  7,987               7,511                9.108                 9,194               10,006               10,818                11.752
Cosee,si1 erd Ss-Ae. Srcts
Leers  tor IRporte sod Otpr..s           26                   61                   155                  1276                                       135                   99                  112                   113                  114
77                   79                   6S                   195                   63                    5                    55                 1.5                    1.1                  112
olsrroRdc  Sills                                45                    11                   A4                    65                    4                   40                    61                   76                    77                   78
Cotecorrlsl lows                   90~         ~        ~~~~~~~                          ~        ~~6 468  557  81:1     796                  909                  979                 1 055                1.092                1.133
5o6-cotsE~~~~~~~~~          6~5_8                 659                  846                1,08                    974                1,1l                Y47fl37                1.353                1,393                1,439
oeoeEop.teoR  Lo,te                37~~~~~~~~~~15         It                  337                   520                  569                  644                   60                   Alt                  651                   68
.Isso ,tR   L.s-IEPrgs                         459527                                     531                   507                  504                  69                    629                  631                  61611
Re_elpoer   _oes-SEP              _Ae          431                   499                  470                   432                  48                   478                   461                  470                  480                   491
SeR- tri PooLT-s.tk L.-e                          -          -                               -                   35RND                                                           73                    0                    a0                   80
R  L-r cst                                  153                  214                   180                  1'13                 49l                   170                   90                    89                   86                   82
Sob-to-l:                          1.3 78                1,540                1,50                  160                  1.812                1.999                 1,857                1.885                 1,909                1,949
Agri-t -Iltrled Llos--k tepcter
Agrlrol--rl sod Li--sok Lost                    361,450                                 1,7513                1,9012               1304                 0,40                  1,6781O                                    2,840                3.570
be  Progrse Losrs       472                   710                1,17~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 1221544            2,5,03193                                                       1,911                1,860
206PorsLost.                           620                   584                  807                  636                   425                  R72                  837                   590                  541                  456
TM0-4 SlI s-e  Projec  Lroe                       ----                                                            -                                          -                    -                  l6O                  421                   654
RtA-tssel,           1,418                ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                    ~~~~2,744  339,103234,387  5,702  5,713     6,540
-rc-seel   Coo...s of Oclrtt                      457                  613                   770                  849                  938                1,755                 1,057                1,096                 1,104                1,074
AsrelteS.......                             158                   247                  544                   852                  518                  617                   656                  870                  700                   750
tor.wle  6d0o.t.t.-                                                         -                     -                             45                    14                   1          10         t                    11                   12                    13
L....e-srde1 Ps-a9-y                                           244                  244                   199                  127                  119                    AS                   91                    40                    -
-et--e-  sod Fise  Ass.e.  (Iess dsprs.c.lstloc.               310                  276                   390                  392                  419                  556                   453                  4953                  453                  453
fth-t Assete                                                   405                  444                   538                  84 1               2,815                 2,996                5,199                3,174                 3,200                3,300
Este -8c   (lc-oso,  Reelc)33                                                  333                   462                  503                  674                   950                  965                   996                  999                1.000
Roo1 Aso..                                   5_571                7_84f_l4                                  10.5                 iiz                   13.976119 ~16910                                                157616 759
DeposIt.                                      ~~~~               ~~~~~                 ~~~~~~               ~~~~~~955  lIt07  1,285  1,184  1,486       2,125                1,99R                2,110                 2,279                2,482
Coet-  Arrre,c                                    463                  491                   552                  542                  612                   718                  890                  920                   955                105
Nsolrgo AotooR5s                    ~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~~482  588  701  69             841                1,56                 1,00311201,24                                                   1,5127
Pttdro,ceosts3028                                                                             323355565                                                                                                 70                   10150
es-Assoorocr.e.o.d.r.      .26                                                        21                   31                   55                    6                    37                   19                    18                   20                    2.
EArrotlegs                                   0~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~               ~~~~~~              ~~,525  3,619  4,751  5,808  6,942           8,072                8,787                 B.067                9,17                   ,5
CeR-rs  ...k--ow                                    -                  251                  406                   640                1,146                1.583                 1.781                1,922                2,191                 2,374
Olorooots                ~~~~~~~~~16           42                   67                   23210                                     134                  36404                                      43852
cloessock Progese~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                      o                                                                                     2
DRtr-l oeR-DorRns605                                                   809                   046                  828                  849                1,671                   886                  953                   976                1,046
IotA  05cR          ~~~~~~~1,902          2,7 17               3,332                 3,767                4.755                4,541                3,661                 5,5686               5432                  5,776
EeeoestBode                                                                                                too-10                82                   43                    42                   22-
losr,s    -ionrbotloo to IN4O   Irtge.                  108                   l0t                  156                   204                  204                  204                  206                   208                  206                   206
I04 RselL Pete  Prje-   -oo                                      -                    -                     -                    -                    -                     -                    -                  101                   46Z                  750
Oshe-Ls5lt                                                     424                  468                   769                  593                  715                   883                  542                   504                  477                   515
rt-1 Lilsbll i-.                            4,056                5,321                 6,682                70846                6,355                11,323               11,548               12,708                12,361               03,293
ts.srtlsl sod Seotege Sepwneeet      ~~~~226               240                  244                   045                  049                  247                   248                  25271                                      284
lsoslors.stt OspsPSRetr              ~~~~~~~~549           541                   7         51           2  05)2                                 376                   5 70       ~          12)                 177                   727
.gltlccesdots-o--koSp,-cts                  537                  L0                     1                   7?                   7?700                                      7C.?                  -?                   .
Rob-9oNel,           l.4r                 7,43'                t,)91                 1,591                1.522                1,520                 1,11                 7,14).                7/11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T  -,-51-1  -
Resect, for 080 Retre                ~~~~~~~                          ~        ~~114  167  350       607                   720                  848                  '20                lIrm                  1,080                1,175
Recsfor Ee-hwee  Di4.                                                                     1                    1l                   12                   13                   13                    14                   15                    55
-.1 ....e..lttto  te..pos                      -                   44                    7                    47                   67                   47                    47                   67                   47                    47
lgelAsrs9                                                              9                    1                     1                    1                   208                   108                  143                   160                  160
SB.-Dos)                              200                  329                   519                  778                  891                -1,118                1,108                1,204                1,302                 1, 417
Ostslod E- -ots                                        13                   14                    11                   13                   14                   16                    14                   13                    15                   1
s_d  -esio   Rsrtlge                       1.536                1,783               L1962                  2.312                2,427                L6       ~            2,644                1902                 3 165                 3"
oT-1 LislllNiss atd Set Sorto                5j. 572              7 284                 86954               10 158               11 7821397                                 14192                1 491 10      ~       15746        ~       16739
Joly 8, 1974






_                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF)
Condensed Income and Expenditure Accounts for Years Ended December 31. 1968-1973 (Actual) and 1974-1977 (Projected)
(in D Million)
Year: ...................         1968           1969            1970            1971            1972            1973            1974            1975            1976            1977
INCOME
Interest                                         371             483             610             708            839             759             920             970           1,030           1,110
Commission                                         76             93             103             106             113             145            115              123             135             150
Other Income                                      61              41              48              25              16              17             51               66              73              85
Total Income:                     508             617             761             839             968             921           _1086           1,159           1,238           1 345
EXPENDITURE
Interest and Commission                          133             198             285             371             391            487             433              465             490             520
Other Financial Expenditure                         5              -               -               -               -               -               -               -
Staff Salaries and Social Benefits               199             221             208             257             276             336             330             365             400             440
Other Costs                                        75             80             114             117             136             168             190             210             230             255
Reserve for Doubtful Debts                        51              72             184             320              95             155             130              80              80              95
Reserve for Exchange Risk                           -              -               1               1               1               1               -               1               1
Other Reserves                                    32              32              18               -              33               8              13              15              17              20
Total Expenditure:                 495             603            810           1,066             932           1,155           1.096           1.136           1,218           1,330
Surplus (Deficit)                                    13              14             (49)          (227)             36            (234)            (10)              23              20              15
Non-operating Profit (Loss)                           -               -               -               -            (13)             14                -               -               -
Development Department Reserves                       -               -               -               -            (13)            (74)               -               -               -
Government;Transfers under Decree Law 281,
Art. 12-                                            -               -             59             240                -            318              24               18              15              17
Net Profit (Loss):                  13              14              10              13              10              24              14              41              35              32
Article 12 of Decree Law 281 provides that Government will reimburse operating losses sustained by the Agricultural and Livestock Department.






ANNEX IO0
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FAIMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Development
Investments to be Financed under the Project
Introduction
1.        Colonization in Paraguay is greatly hampered by the lack of suffi-
cient resources to provide even the most basic infrastructures in the areas
colonized. This lack has kept all but the most enterprising of the settlers
at subsistence level as there are no incentives for them to improve and
develop their holdings, and many of them have abandoned the land allocated
to them.
2.        There is abundant evidence that the provision of basic facilities
in each of the three colonies constitutes an essential prerequisite for any
development project in this area. This Project would only provide the first
stage of a comprehensive infrastructure, the completion of which would only
be contemplated after development in the colonies had reached the stage where
actual achievements in the form of increased agricultural production justified
further expenditure on facilities.
3.        The justification of capital cost involved in this Project can thus
be briefly stated as "no infrastructure--no Project" and the analysis of the
financing of the infrastructure becomes a matter of determining the maximum
investment in this element which the Project could bear and allocating this
amount in accordance with a considered list of priorities.
4.        The greatest need is for roads and this element would receive the
major share of the proposed investment. The other basic facilities included
in the Project would be primary schools, health centers, community centers
and radio links in each of the three colonies. In the short term, the commu-
nity centers would provide accommodation in each of the three colonies for
Project staff. In the long term, it is intended that these buildings would
form the focal point for community social activities. The radio links are
similarly intended to cover both short- and long-term needs, providing low-cost
benefits to the local communities.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
A. Roads
Definitions of Road Classifications Used in this Annex
5.   (i)  The use of the tern "highway" is restricted to include
only bituminous paved trunk roads.
(ii) The term "earth road" is used to describe any earth road
which is constructed to at least the first stage of a
full width engineered road.
(iii)  The term "all-weather road" is used to describe any similar
road but with the addition of at least 0.15 m thick properly
constructed gravel or stone surface.
(iv) All other forms of access are referred to as "tracks."
Background
6.        The three Project areas are all situated on or near the east-west
paved highway linking Asuncion with Puerto Presidente Stroessner on the
Brazilian border. Road access to the vicinity of each colony is, therefore,
excelient. On the other hand, only very poor tracks exist within the
colonies.
7.        The colonies have been laid out in accordance with plans prepared
by the Instituto de Bienestar Rural (IBR). Aerial photography of 1965 shows
that these layouts have been more or less followed on the ground. The road
networks have, for the most part, been planned on a 2 km by 2 km rectangular
grid regardless of the physical configuration of the ground. Twenty-meter
wide road reserves have been provided and in many cases fenced, and it is
these reserves which are used as access tracks. No proper drainage has been
provided with the inevitable result that some sections have become water-
courses during wet weather. The alternating impact on the road by vehicles
and flood water has caused serious erosion in some sections where the intended
roads have become gullies several meters wide and anything up to 3 m deep.
Swamps occur at frequent intervals along most of the road alignments. Some
timber bridges have been built but most of these are very crude and the
swamp crossings are hazardous to any type of wheeled transport.
Soils
8.        The soils in the Project colonies, excluding the swampy areas, are
for the most part lateritic. In the Mallorquin colony, the soil contains
sufficient binder to provide an excellent material for earth road construction
but in General Stroessner (ex-Pastoreo) and Repatriacion where the sand content
is much higher, the problems associated with maintaining a good running surface
on earth roads will be corresoondingly greater.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Quarries
9.        There are two established quarries near the Project area, one at
km 168 and the other at km 289 (both measured from Asuncion). The first
provides sandstone at 4 km south of the highway and also basalt at a point
5 km further south. The second provides basalt only and is about 1 km south
of the highway. Other sources of stone, at or near the surface, must exist
in the area and enquiries made in the colonies support this view.
Weather
10.       The average annual rainfall in the Project area is about 1,500 mm
(maximum 2,000 mm) and this is distributed relatively evenly throughout the
year. The average number of days per month on which rain occurs is between
seven and 10 but can be as high as 17. The average number of wet days per
annum is 100 and the maximum 160. These figures indicate the magnitude of
the problem of providing access in this area. Some existing roads are closed
to all traffic during wet weather to preserve them by putting up barricades
but, except in areas under strict Government control, the effectiveness of
this method is somewhat limited. Such compulsory closures would be necessary
on the earth roads to be constructed in this Project and should be enforced
to cut down wear and tear.
Survey
11.       A considerable number of aerial photographs exist with the Instituto
Geografico Militar (IGM) but limited laboratory facilities restrict their use.
USAID, in collaboration with the Institute of Aerial Geographical Survey (IAGS),
is currently mounting a cadastral project in Paraguay. It is intended that
this program should commence about July 1974, and that it would include the
provision of improved laboratory facilities and new equipment which would
then enable IGM to make better use of the existing compilation manuscripts.
This program also includes new aerial photography, the first priority being
given to the Alto Parana river basin and the second to Caaguazu department,
i.e., including the Project area. Government intends to include the Project
area in the first priority of the cadastral project and current aerial photo-
graphy would be used at the early stage of implementation until new photos
become available. Aerial photography is undertaken at regular intervals by
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Some of this photo-
graphy is published and would also be of value to this Project.
Priorities
12.       The major factors which have dete=ined the investment priorities
for road construction are (a) the need to stimulate the small farmers to
increase their production in the shortest nossible time, and hence, the
short-term need to provide the maximum  eng:-. of access -.a6 bDuilt to the
lowest acceptable standard; and (b) the long-:ermn -Lequiremen- :hat funds
expended on this Project make a substaatial eo._.-ibution to the future
* improvsment and extension of the road network..



ANNEX 10
Page 4
13.       On this basis, the following road Drogram would be adopted:
(M) the provision of a well-equipped earthmoving unit to be
employed solely for the construction, progressive improvement
and maintenance of earth roads within the three Project
colonies and provision of funds for the design, supervision
and control of this work over the three-year Project period
(paras 15 and 19);
(ii) the provision of funds for the design, supervision and
construction of timber bridges and concrete pipe culverts
along the earth road routes (paras 16 and 23); and
(iii) the provision of funds for the design, supervision and
construction of gravel or stone-paved, all-weather roads
to link the colonies with the highway and to penetrate as
far as possible into each of them (paras 16 and 24).
Control and Operation
14.       The Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Communicaciones (MOPC) does not
have adequate resources in technical staff to undertake this program in
addition to its other current commitments. As, however, MOPC would take over
the road works in due course, this Ministry would be involved with the Project
from the outset. A firm of Consulting Engineers (hereafter referred to as
"the Engineers") accentable to IDA would be hired by MOPC for this Project.
In order to achieve adequate coordlination between the different aspects of
the road program, a single firm of Engineers would be appointed with responsi-
bility to MOPC for the design, planning, control and supervision of all the
road works included in the Project. This firm, which would be a firm of
good standing, preferably with an intimate knowledge of Paraguay, would be
required to work very closely with MOPC at all stages of the investment works.
15.       The earth roads would be constructed by MOPC staff assigned to
cooperate with the Engineers and using the earthmoving unit supplied under
the Project specifically for this work. All operating costs, i.e., staffing,
backup maintenance and the supply of fuel, spare parts and tires of the
earthmoving unit, would, however, be met by Government through additional
budget appropriation to MOPC.
16.       On the other hand, the construction of bridges, culverts and all-
weather roads would be undertaken b-y contracts awarded through international
competitive bidding. Two separate contracts would be let. The first would
comprise the construction and paving of all bridges and culverts required
along the earth road routes, while the second would cover all works necessary
for the construction of the all-weather roads, including bridges and culverts
associated with them. This separation would be necessary to achieve optimum
operational efficiency in the construction program.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
17.       To satisfy the overall requirements, it would be essential that
work on all elements of the road program proceeds simultaneously in all three
colonies but, in order to attract suitably qualified contractors, the further
sub-division of the contracts by colonies would be undesirable.
Project Content
18.       The summation of the access routes shown on IBR plans for the three
colonies amounts to about 900 km. This can be reduced to some 700 km and
still provide access to all the plots indicated on the plans, but to dissipate
resources in an attempt to improve 700 km of road would produce no lasting
benefits to any of the colonies and would thus fail to satisfy the stated
priorities for the Project. The Project content has, therefore, been divided
into three elements corresponding to the items listed in the road program
(para 13).
First Element: Earth Road Design, Construction and Maintenance
19.       The objective of this element is to open the maximum possible
lengths of earth roads within the three colonies, thus any reference to
specific achievement targets has been deliberately avoided. Actual achieve-
ment will depend on many factors but principally on the quantity of earthworks
required. This quantity cannot be determined accurately until the routes
have been surveyed by the Engineers but at least 250 km of stage one construc-
tion should be possible during the Project period. Construction of earth roads
would commence at various points along all-weather roads. The sections of
earth roads selected for construction would be such as to leave approxima-
tely equal distances between the farthest plots and an earth road.
20.       The roads would be fully engineered and designed for progressive
stage construction from the outset although )nly the first stage would be
undertaken under this Project.  This first stage would comprise only the
minimum earthworks and drainage compatible with minimal performance standards
but would be constructed to the full width of 7 m (para 27).  This procedure
would improve serviceability of the earth road on completion of the first
stage of construction and would also reduce the cost of subsequent stages of
improvement.
21.       The composition of the earthworks unit would be:
3   Motorgraders, 125 hp.
3z n-7 tractors, 180 hn, each complete with hydraulically
operated equipment comprising angle dozer, 3 shsnk
ripper and matched towed scraper of 10.7/13.8 m
struck/heaped capacity.
Pneumatic tired hydrau-lcalily operated front loader
of 1.5 m3 capacity.
~ t    Dump trucks, 6-ton enacity.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
1    Fully equipped mobile workshop on 6-ton chassis.
1    Grease truck on 6-ton :hassis.
1    Flat-bed truck, 6-ton capacity, complete with hydraulic
lifting equipment.
3    4-wheel drive vehicles.
Appropriate scale of spare parts for each item (10% of plant value).
22.       The allocation of the plant would be:  one motorgrader, one D-7
and equipment and one 4-wheel drive to each of the three Project colonies
while the front loader and six dump trucks would be moved from one colony to
another as the need arises. The three service vehicles would operate to a
servicing schedule covering all three colonies. In the preparation of this
schedule, special attention would be given to preventive maintenance.
Second Element: Bridge and Culvert Design, Supervision and Construction
23.       The construction program would be worked out in conjunction with
that for the earthworks in the first element (para 19) in order to ensure
the earliest possible usability of the new earth roads.  The length of road
which can be provided with bridges and culverts would be ascertained after
survey but is estimated to be at least 250 km.  In order to achieve maximum
penetration of the earth road networks, bridges would be restricted to single
lane width of 4 m.  Provision would, however, be made in the design for future
bridge widening at minimum additional cost. By using the excellent locally
available hardwood logs for bridge piles, a useful life of about 20 years can
be expected for the main structures although bridge decks would have to be
renewed several times during this period. Reinforced concrete bridges cannot
be justified. On the other hand, culverts would be constructed to the full
road width from the outset. In view of the plentiful supply of sand in the
Project area, the manufacture of concrete pipes would be undertaken on site.
The adoption of cheaper methods of culvert construction, such as the use of
second hand oil drums, would not be an acceptable investment.
Third Element: All-weather Road Design, Supervision and Construction
24.       A total length of 60 km of fully engineered road would be provided,
10 km being to link Repatriacion with Caaguazu Township and 3 km to link
Pastoreo Township with the highway. The remaining 47 km would be distributed
between the three colonies, the sections of road to be built to this standard
being selected to ensure that the dry-weather access to the farthest plots
from an all-weather road or from the highway would be of as nearly equal
length as the colony layouts allow. These roads would have a 5 m wide stone
or gravel pavement of not less than 0.15 m thickness on a 7 m wide formation
(pare 27).



ANNEX 10
Page 7
Road Cost Estimates /1
25.       First Element:  Earth Roads (by MOPC)             % '000
Purchase of earthmoving and ancillary unit,
including 10% for spares                        83,160
Consulting Engineers fees                         12,600
Sub-total:                  95,760 (US$760,000)
Second Element:  Bridges and Culverts for Earth Roads (by Contract)
Allow for 2 precast concrete (P.C.C.) culverts
and 2.5 m length of timber bridge per route km.
Estimated length to be provided 250 km         129,150
Consulting Engineers fees                          9,072
Sub-total:                 138,222 (US$1,097,000)
Third Element: All-weather Roads (by Contract)
Allow for construction of earthworks, drainage and
stone surface with 2 P.C.C. culverts and 2.5 m
length of timber bridge per route km.
Estimated length to be provided 60 km          201,852
Consulting Engineers fees                          14,238
Sub-total:                 216.090 (US$1,715,000)
Total basic estimated cost:                      450,072 (US$3,572,000)
Contingencies - physical            60,000
- price /2          132,000        192,000  (US$1,523,000)
Total:                      642,072  (US$5,096,000)
/1   Based on rates supplied by IOPC. October J973.
77   Assuming that 50% would be awardec. in 1975 and 50% in 1976.  Assumed price
increases:  equipment 1974 -  4%4. '97J - 11%, 1976 - 7.5%;
civil works 1974 - 18%,~ 1975 - 15%, 1976 - 12%.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 8 1
No operating costs for the earthworks unit Lave been included in the above.
These are estimated at ¢ 53 million (US$0.4 million) per annum or ¢ 159
million (US$1.3 million) over the Project period and would be provided by
Government through additional annual budget appropriation (para 15).
Road Alignment
26.       As existing road layouts follow a geometric pattern unrelated to
contours on the ground, the cost of road construction along these alignments
would be relatively high. Wholesale re-alignment for engineering reasons
would not be possible because the plots have already been allocated by IBR,
but the Engineers would incorporate such minor diversion from existing routes
as would improve the road alignment and which could be agreed with the settlers
and IBR.
Design Standards
27.       In general, road standards would be those already accepted by the
Government and by the Bank for roads in Paraguay. In particular, there are
four points on which no lowering of standards below the following limits
would be acceptable:
(i) axle loading for bridge design - H 20 (.American
Association of State Highway reference);
(ii) road width--7 m, i.e., 5 m carriageway and 1 m shoulders;
(iii) adequate drainage; and
(iv) minimum pavement thickness of 0.15 m on all-weather roads.
On all other points the Engineers would make specific proposals regarding the
relaxation of standards as soon as a detailed survey of the routes has been
carried out.
Maintenance
28.       The earthworks unit would undertake maintenance of the earth roads
during the Project period and the contracts for bridge and all-weather road
construction would include maintenance for the first year after construction.
Thereafter, MOPC would provide funds for maintenance through special budget
appropriation.
.



ANNEX _10
Page 9
B. Schools
Background
29.       Conflicting population estimates in the three Project colonies make
it difficult to calculate accurately either total school requirements or the
areas within the colonies where the need is greatest. There is, however, no
doubt that the provision of primary schools within this Project is essential
to the development of all three colonies. Excluding schools in such poor
condition that they must be replaced, thie number of existing and planned
primary classrooms is as follows 1/:
General
Stroessner
Repatriacion      (ex-Pastoreo       Mallorquin
Existing                     2                21                 49
Planned /1                   4                 9                 16
Total:            6                30                 65
Capacity /2                480             2,400             5,200
/1   Under construction (USAID program) in or adjacent to the
Project colonies and due for completion in 1974.
/2 Working in two shifts, each classroom accommodates 2 x 40 -
80 students.
The available estimates suggest primary student populations (aged 7 to 14
years) in these three colonies of 4,300, 4,000 and 7,900 respectively which
would give:
Gieneral
Stroessner
Repatriacion (ex-Pastoreo) Mallorquin Total
Classroom requirement            54            50               99       203
Less existing & planned           6            30               65        101
Deficit                     48            20              34        102
* t/   Source:  Ministerio de Educacion.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 10
Project Content
30.       The Project would, therefore, cover the deficit by providing 102
classrooms, together with the necessary facilities 1/. This provision would
be distributed between the three colonies in proportion to the student
population; the criteria being to serve a catchment area with a primary
school aged population within walking distance (not more than 3 km) at least
as large as the school's capacity. Final proposals on the location and size
of each school would be decided by the Ministry of Education but, for the
project estimates have been based on 26 schools, eighteen of which would be
of the type known as 3-3-6 (three classrooms, three teachers, six grades)
and eight would be 6-classroom schools. All schools would operate on the
two-shift system using the same teachers for both shifts, thus achieving
complete primary education in the most economical way.
Cost Estimate
31.       At the rate of C 12,116 (US$96.16) per m ; inclusive of the cost
of supervision, site works, services and furniture; each 3-3-6 school would
cost ¢ 2.8 million (US$22,500) and each 6-classroom school would cost ¢ 5.1
million (US$40,700) 2/. The cost of eighteen 3-3-6 schools and eight 6-
classroom schools would be ¢ 92 million (US$731,000) plus 45% contingencies
(10% physical and 35% price) amounting to 0 45 million (US$355,000); a
total of C 137 million (US$1,085,000).
1/   Kitchen, dining room, teachers' room, washrooms, basic furniture and
equipment, water supply, site wczks and electric wiring.
2/   Based on cost figures supplied by the Ministry of Education's
Architectural Department and derived from tenders received in last
quarter of 1973.
0



ANNEX 10
Page 11
One 3-3-6 school
3-classrooms                              156 m2
ancillary accommodation /1                 78 m
Total:                  234 m2       2,699,892
One 6-classroom school
6-classrooms                              312 m2
ancillary accommodation /1                 111 m
Total:                  423 m2       4,880,574
18  3-3-6 schools                                  ¢  48,598,056
8  6-classroom schools                               39,044,592
Total building cost:                           ¢  87,642,648
Design and supervision                             4,442,352
Total basic cost:                               ¢  92,085,000
Contingencies: physical                            12,432,000
price /2                           32,230,000
Total Project Cost:             0 136,747,000 (US$1,085,000)
/1   Kitchen, dining room, teachers' room, washrooms, basic furniture and
equipment, water supply, site works and electric wiring.
/2   Assuming that 50% would be awarded in 1975 and 50% in 1976.  Assumed
price increases: equipment 1974 - 14%, 1975 - 11%, 1976 - 7.5%;
civil works 1976 - 18%, 1975 - 15%, 1976 - 12%.
Construction and Control
32.       Construction of the Project schools would be by contract through
international competitive bidding and control of the program would be exercised
by the Minister of Education who would delegate the execution of the work to
his own Architectural Department.



ANNEX 10
Page 12
Desi} 8 and Specifications
33.       The Architectural Department of the Ministry of Education has
developed standard type plans for school buildings on a 1.8 m module and the
current USAID program is being built to these designs. The specifications
for these schools incorporate concrete floors, brick walls, standard modular
door and window units, timber rafters and tile clad roofs. This type of
construction has been accepted by the Ministry of Education as standard and
would be acceptable for this Project. By adopting these designs, modified
as necessary to suit individual sites, the design and supervision cost would
be reduced to a minimum.
C. Health Centers
Background
34.       Existing medical services within the three colonies are few.  Mallorquin
is the best served having a health center (built with the assistance of USAID) of
250 mz covered area and staffed by one doctor, one dentist and three nurses.
Even here, basic equipment is lacking and drugs are in short supply. A few
health posts manned by semi-skilled staff complete the existing provision.
The Ministry of Health is working out a regional development program which
proposes extending the facilities at Mallorquin by 470 m2 of new buildings,
and building nel centers at General Stroessner (ex-Pastoreo) and Repatriacion
totalling 630 m and 150 m2 respectively.
Project Content and Cost Estimate
35.       The provision to be made under the proposed Project has been calcu-
lated to provide slightly less accommodation at Repatriacion and General
Stroessner (ex-Pastoreo) than exists at Mallorquin, together with better
equipment in all three centers. This would make a substantial contribution
towards the regional development of the health service in these areas.
The following items would be provided in the Project:
0



ANNEX 10
Page 13
General
Stroessner
Item                        Repatriacion (ex-Pastoreo)  Mallorguin  Total
- -- - (in                  - - -
New buildings                 2,116,809    2,116,809               -  4,233,609
(210 m)       (210 m)                   (420 m)
Basic equipment                 844,200        844,200    1,008,000  2,696,400
Site services, i.e.,
water, generation, etc.       693,000       693,000        126,000  1,512,000
Sub-total:              8,442,000 /1
Adaptation of standard
designs and supervision
of construction                                                        882,000
Specialist equipment /2       2,520,000    2,520,000    2,520,000  7,5602000
Total Basic Cost:    16,884,000
Contingencies:
physical                    2,279,000
prices /3                   5,909,000                               5,308,000
Total Project Cost:  25,072,000 (US$199,000)
/1   Based on Ministry of Health estimates of October 1973.
/2   Ministry of Health currently preparing schedules of medical equipment
requirements. 0 7,560,000 (US$60,000) provided as Project contribution.
/3   Assuming that 50% would be awarded in 1975 and 50% in 1976.  Assumed
price increases: equipment 1974 - 14%, 1976 - 11%, 1976 - 7.5%;
civil works 1976 - 18%, 1975 - 15%, 1976 - 12%.
Construction and Control
36.       The buildings and site services would be constructed by contract
through international competitive bidding and control of the entire program
would be exercised by the Ministry of Health who would delegate the execution
of the work to his own Architectural Department. The Ministry would also be
responsible for ensuring that specialist medical equipment provided under
the Project is evenly distributed between the three Project colonies.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 14
37.       Designs and Specifications.  The Architectural Department has pre-
pared type plans for various standard single story blocks to be built under
the regional development program; with minor adaptations these plans would
provide acceptable layouts for this Project. The standard specifications
would also be acceptable. These provide for coacrete floors, brick walls,.
standard door and window units, timber rafters end tiled roofs.
D. Community Centers
Background
38.       Although various committees exist in the colonies, no adequate
meeting places have yet been provided. Suitable accommodation for social
functions is similarly lacking and communications between the colonies and
with Asuncion are also inadequate. To achieve the objectives of the proposed
Project, facilities would be made available within each colony which would
enable Project staff to base their activities in the field.
Project Content and Cost Estimate
39.       The Project would, therefore, provide the basic needs of the2above
requirements which would include, for each colony, a building of 200 m ,
office equipment and a 2-channel radio transmitter-receiver set operated by
12 volt wet battery. The estimated cost of this provision is:
2               2
Three buildings totalling 600 m  at 0 11,340/m 2          6,804,000
Design and supervision cost                                 680,400
Three sets of office equipment                             1,512,000
Three radio sets and installation                          1,512,000
Sub-total:                         10,508,400
Contingencies:  physical            1,419
price /1           3,678                 5,097,000
Total Project Cost:              ¢ 15,605,400 (US$124,000)
/1   Assuming that 50% would be awarded in 1975 and 50% in 1976.  Assumed
price increases:  equipmenc 1974 - 14%, 1976 - 11%, 1976 - 7.5%;
civil works 1976 - 18%, 1975 - 15%, 1976 - 12%.
Control and Operation
40.       The Ministry of Works and Communications would be responsible for
the con3truction by contract of the community centers and for the installation  _
and operation of the radio links during the Project period, and these res-
ponsibilities would be delegated to the Consulting Engineers appointed to



ANNEX 10
Page 15
control the road program. The allocation of office space in the three centers
during the Project period would be the responsibility of the Project coordi-
nator. The buildings, office equipment and radio sets would be handed over
to the local authorities responsible for each of the three colonies after the
basic infrastructure investments have been completed.
Design and Specification
41.       Drawings would be prepared by the Engineers based on the Department
of Education standard details and specifications for school buildings. The
same drawings would be used for all three colonies except for any variations
to the under-building necessitated by site conditions. Each center would
comprise a coumittee room, one large and two small offices, a washroom and
a covered open sided area which would be the focal point for large meetings
and social functions. Water supplies and septic tanks would be provided and
the buildings would be wired for electricity ready for connection with the
mains at a later date when power supplies become available.
February 8, 1974






AiNEX 11
Page 1
PARAGUAY
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Investments to be Financed Under the Project
A. Medium- and Long-Term Investments
General
1.        In the past, colony settlers had little hope of obtaining medium-
and long-term financing or technical assistance. Markets for crops were
limited, prices low, and repayment of credit obtained from buyers, store
keepers, and money lenders left little surplus for the producer for possible
on-farm investments. However, since 1972, farm prices have risen considerably
and buyers have become more plentiful. On-farm investments could now be made
so that these farmers can make a more complete transition from subsistence to
commercial farming.
2.        Project colony settlers are hard workers but the size of area they
can farm is limited by the number of workers in the family or hired help.
A hired labor normally receives two meals plus a daily wage. The total cost
averages 0 200/day (US$1.59) per worker. Harvest costs have moved up rapidly
in the last two seasons: cotton harvesting has gone from 0 2.5/kg to ¢ 4.5/kg
(US$0.02 to US$0.04), and soybeans and vegetables have registered similar
increases.
3.        Labor inputs are also high for all crops because of the constant
battle with weeds and brush regrowth. Before seedbed preparation, previous
crop residue, weeds, and regrowth must be cut and burned. This requires about
10 man-days/ha. Then, turning the soil and preparation of the seedbed takes
another 15 to 20 man-days/ha. Cultivating, weeding, thinning and spraying
also have high labor requirements.
Draft Animals
4.        The majority of settlers are at the point where the cultivation of
cleared land absorbs all available family labor. Therefore, acquiring a pair
of draft animals is necessary in order to make the move from subsistence farm-
ing to commercially oriented agriculture by clearing and cultivating more land.
A good pair of bullocks capable of tilling 5 to 6 ha a year costs ¢ 65,000
(US$516) and, with the proper care, should have an eight-year working life.
Sold for slaughter, they would have a salvage value of at least 25%. Additional
investment required would-be for the tillage tools and carts, which would on
average cost 0 51,000 (US$405). Some farmers prefer horses because they have
observed the success the neighboring Mennonites have had in using them for
tillage and hauling purposes.



APINEX 1 1
Page 2
5.        A strict vaccination program would be required by BNF for all
livestock financed because large losses are common due to swine
f'ver, cholera, and other diseases. Each colony would therefore have a
veterinarian on its extension staff to carry out an animal health program.
All necessary vaccines would be made available to the Project colonies
by MAG.
Permanent Pastures
6.        About 1 ha of permanent pasture with fencing, as well as some
cassava and maize, would be required to feed the bullocks properly. Many
settlers feel that permanent pasture is a low-labor means to increase the
productivity of their land (without incurring a large increase in peak labor
requirements). They have also observed the success of settlers in the Japanese
and 'Mennonite colonies utilizing permanent pasture to raise both beef and pork
and feel that it can be a profitable enterprise for them. Indications are
that permanent pastures can carry at least two animal units/ha year round and
possibly more in months of good rainfall. Fences would be four strands of
barbed wire strung to native wood posts spaced at approximately two-meter
intervals.  Cost would be about 0 48/m (US$0.38/m).
Cutting Forest
7.        Until recently, all forest cutting was done with hand axes and
saws, but lately there has been an increase in the use of chain saws. Owners
often provide contracting services at 0¢7,000 to 0 8,000/ha (US$56 to 63).
After the trees have been cut down, they are allowed a short period to dry
and then they are burned. Later, workers go in with machetes to cut and pile
the smaller brush that remains. As soon as a good dry period occurs, those
piles are also burned. The cost of cutting and piling is ¢ 4,000 to 5,000/ha
(US$32 to 40).
Preparation for Draft Animal Use
8.        For the first two to three years after a forest has been cLt down,
it is almost impossible to use draft animals for tillage due to the large
number of logs and stumps crisscrossing the fields. Most cultivation must
therefore be done by hand. These are the lands that could be planted to
permanent pastures, since they could be grazed while logs are decaying; it
would be difficult to plant crops during this period. On lands where annual
cropping is practiced, burning of crop residue and regrowth gets rid of some
logs. Those that remain are aligned with stumps or dragged off to the side.
Such clearing is commonly accomplished by additional cutting, prying and
pulling, using both human and animal power. Recently, however, contractors
with bulldozers from both the Japanese and Mennonite colonies have offered
custon clearing services.  The costs for pushing over forest and stacking in
windrows is around 0 25,000/ha (US$200). It takes two to three years to
finally burn all of the windrow.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
.    Other
9.        There is considerable demand for backpack chemical hand sprayers
for applying insecticides and fungicides. There is another area where animal
power could take a lot of the drudgery out of the operation by carting one or
two barrels of water to the field, thus eliminating the numerous trips back
and forth for sprayer refills. In addition, a hand pump at the well, to
replace the bucket and rope, would be a greatly appreciated improvement.
Some storage would also be required for livestock feed or to hold back some
crops at harvest time to allow for post harvest marketing.
10.       Total investment per farm would be 0 329,300 (US$2,614).  It is
anticipated that at least 2,000 of the 5,000 farmers in the Project colonies
would participate over the three years, but some will probably receive more
than one loan to complete their on-farm investment programs, thereby making
the total number of sub-loans greater than 2,000.
B. Short-Term Financing
11.       In addition to financing of on-farm investments, annual crop and
livestock financing would be necessary for the Project farmers. Crop finan-
cing would enable them to buy sufficient good quality seed for timely planting
plus other necessary inputs, and make it unnecessary for them to surrender
their crop at harvest time for whatever price they are given. The crop sub-
loans would allow adequate time after harvest for repayment so the farmers
could take advantage of any increase in price that might occur after the
normal price depression at harvest time. BNF loan officers and agricultural
extension agents would work closely with farmers in helping them budget pro-
perly, insuring that each farm plan fits the farmer's starting and projected
technological level.  The farmer would ^:eceive 90% of his projected annual
crop production costs and secure it with a chattel mortgage on the crop.
Annual production loan requirements are estimated to reach 0 191,300 per farm
(US$1,518) in the third year or a total of 0 383 million (US$3.0 million) for
the Project colonies.
C. Farm Model
12.       The farm model is based on land ownership of 10 to 20 ha, with
5-1/2 ha partially cleared and farmed at present.  Eighty percent of the
farmers in the Project colonies are in this category, with over 60% of the
cultivated area in subsistence crops, maize and cassava. Tobacco is used as
the first crop after cutting, usually followed by maize or soybean. Most of
the 3 to 4 ha in crops are tilled by hand, although the settler would
occasionally trade labor or pay for custom plowing of a portion of his
farm by oxen. Yields are low because of poor quality seeds, practically no
*   use of fertilizer, irregular insecticide treatments and severe weed compe-
tition.  Most farmers have some livestock in their subsistence-type



ANNEX 11
Page 4
opera'ions-a family milk cow, or chickens sunning loose, and sometimes pigs.
Upon investment, the farm, over a two-year leriod, would move up to 10 ha:
in production, 3-1/2 ha in permanent pasture, and 6-1/2 ha in crops (Table 1).
Bullocks would be used to till 5.5 ha, while 1 ha with a large amount of down
timber would be cultivated by hand.
13.       Included in the farm model are:  maize, cassava, cotton, soybean,
vegetables and permanent pasture. Tobacco has not been shown at the full
development stage because it is generally grown as the first crop after
clearing. However, as improved techniques are developed and the use of
improved inputs has become more common, it may come into the crop rotation as
a regular crop. Although cotton has had both climate and insect problems,
the newly introduced African variety B 50 shows better yields and is, there-
fore, expected to increase in hectareage in the near future. Soybeans are
just taking hold in the Project colonies and where good seed and proper inputs
are used, yields are up to 3.5 tons per ha. Presently farmers plant about
10% of their cropped land with high-cost, high-risk crops, but also high
income, such as tomatoes, garlic, onions, carrots, potatoes, essential oils,
mainly petit grain (distilled from orange leaves) and mint. Beans are another
crop which is intercropped, or grown in place of maize. Pastures would fit
very well in the crop rotation and help to keep the productivity of the land
up.
14.       Cropping intensity is limited to one crop per year and there is
little possibility for double cropping, considering the lack of land pressure
and weather problems. The overall investment of ¢ 329,300 per farm (US$2,614)
would be distributed over two years. Full cost of production for crops
would not be reached until the third year, since fertilizer and other inputs
would not be likely to come into full use before then. Annual livestock
production costs would start in the second year and reach a maximum in the
sixth year as the number of head increases. Livestock income would start
in the third year and increase with herd development, reaching full pro-
duction in the sixth year. The financial rate of return has been estimated
at 37% over a 15-year period.
Project Consideration
15.       The HAG extension agents' programs for the application of better
production techniques would be introduced into the Project colonies. Fifteen
agents, five to each Project colony under the supervision of the project
coordinator would be essential to th success of the Project. In each colony
one of the extension agents would be a veterinarian, responsible for animal
0



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
health, vaccination and artificial insemination program. The veterinarian
would inspect and vaccinate animals financed by the Project. Agents would
be supplied with four-wheel drive vehicles, fuel and maintenance to enable
them to visit the Project farmers regularly helping to define farm plans,
set up demonstration plots and assist farmers in any other way necessary for
achieving the envisaged production targets.
February 8, 1974






P A R A G U A Y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Producer Incomes and Financial Rate of Return
Investment. Yield. Cost and Price Assumptions
Cropping Pattern                      Yield                     Total
Before          Full            Before           Full          Investment      Annual
Crop                   Development   Development        Development   Development         Year 1-2       Costs-           Year       Farm-Gate Price
________-- ha -----------       -------- ton/ha --------_           ----- ¢ '000/ha -----                    --- V/ton-
CassavaLl                        1.25            2.0              15.0           20.0,3            32.9          27.4              1             3,100 M     -
Cotton                           0.5             1.0               1.0             2.0             32.9          23.7              1            20,000 ^ L    G         '-'
Maize                            1.0             1.5               1.7             3.0             32.9          16.5              1             9,000             A O " Cce
Soybeans                         0.5             1.5               1.6             2.2             32.9          21.5              1            19,000  x -?.
Tobacco                          0.5             -                 1.2             1.6             32.9          37.4              1            45,000
Tomatoes                          -              0.2               -             32.0              32.9         208.0              1            12,000  x 6            7t y -
Annual after
Pasture establishment for                                                                                      Year 6
beef production 4stocking
rate 2.0 AU/ha)/4'             -              3.8                             233 kg/ha          32.9           2.015            6/6          ¢ 42/kg           27  2o0
(liveweight)
3.75          10.00
/1  7.7 AU feeded 300 kg/AU year of cassava reduces the amount for market by 2.3 tons annually.
/2  Under annual costs depreciation on investments such as oxen, equipment, fences and pastures are not included.  Full annual cost reached
in third year.
/3 Yields increase to rate shown in fifth year.
/4  AU:  Animal 1 year and older, calves included with mother.
/5  Full annual cost reached in sixth year.
/6  Full production reached in sixth year.



P A 0 A C i A Y
SMALL FABlER CREOll AND RULIL DREVLOPIC§'ET P003JECd
Prod-ce  Ir-o- ond Fi n-ncl Rare of Retur
Form 'lodel anj   Cas-. rlF-
(Rn 9 '500")
Be fore
RYar:                                                                                  3               4  .  nelome7                                                                           10              11           12 - 5
MICRD RAE?I?GR:  10-20 Ba tarn with 5.5 Soa partlv cleared. rhe romainder Beastly forested (land clcarsn4. on x.is cnt, cat  an   Ra0uyd  proO   con
BB nvestmenB Castes:
Csr ftr-ss, barn, stack and born; 4.5 ha                   -              27.0           27. 0
EsCablisAed pas-Lre; 3.5 ha                                   -               8.8            8.8
Cot old logs, Born or resone; 1.5 ho                       -               7.5
Ipa1 Reir bullocks                                         -              bS.0            -              -              -              -              -              -               -             45.0
Farm cqnip-cot fo- bol-bcks                                -              55.9            -                             -              -                                             -              5/2--
,/i          Feocing (1,550 a)                                          -               25.2           25.2
Chemical sprafee, hand                                     -               6.0
Wafer Pap to soell, Rood                                   -               -             10.0
Storage shed---B.R                                                                                       -              -                             -               -                             -a,-
23  -s  (io-colf)                                          -              45.5           25.0-                          -              -              -               -
Sob-total:                                                      230.4           99.0                                                                                                     520.
Anonal Prodoceion Costs:L/                                  69.7           158.1          160.1          560.1          560.9          161.2           161.3          161.3          161.3          1651.3           1.3           165.3          165.2
Total Costs:                                     69.7           355.5          255.5          565.1           160,9          165.2          161.3          161.3          161..
Cross P-odoation VeIns:
Cotton                                                    10.0            28.0           32.0           32.4           36.0           40.0           40.5            40.0           40.0           40,0           40.0            40.0           40.0
Tob.cco                                                   27.0             -                             -              -                              - -                           .              -              - _  -
Moi-e                                                     15.3            28.4           32.4           32.4           36.5           40.5           40.5            40.5           40.5           40.5           40.5            40.5           40.5
Cassova -6.0                                                              87.7           95.5           95.5          106.0          116.9           116.9          116,9          116.9          116.9           116.9          116.9          116.9
Vegeteble                                                  .              53.8           61.4           61.4           69.1            76.8           76.8           76.0           76.8           76.0            76.0           76.5           76.8
Soyb.a.                                                   15.2            43.9           50.2           50.2           56.4            62.7          62.7            62.7           62.7           62,7            62.7           62.7           62.7
Cattle                                                     -               -              5.8            5.8           19.4            23,0           24.4           24.4           24.4           24.4            24.4           24.4           24.4
Totol:                                          127.5           241.5          277.3          257.3           020.4         364.7           3613           361..3 1.3                     361.0          063.3          361.3          361.3
Net Income without P,.ojortf.4                              57.             57.5           52.9           57.5            57.5           57.8           27.5           57.6           57.6            57.0           57.8           57.58          57.8
Net Flow fram Projert                                        -            (204.5)          (39.6)          59.4          104.7          141.7          142.2          142.2          142.2            92,2          142.2          142.2          142.2
I-n-tes-t L.oao.                                                           207,o           89.1            -               -              .              -              -                              .              .              -              -
Anuaal Crap Prodaction Lose                                  -             142.3          144 .           144.1          144.8          145.1          145.2          145.2          145.2           145.2          145.2          145.2
Total Loso:                                                     349.3          233.2           144.1          144.5          145.1          142.2          160.2          440.2           145.2          145.2          145.2
Debt Seryi-e:
I-ete...t L...o:  Interest                                 -              12.4           30.2           34.0           30.2           25.8            21.3           13.8           11.6             5,9            4.9            5.7
Principal                               -               -              -             25.9           3750           37.0            37.0           37.0           37.0           3740            3750           11.2
Prodortioo Loom:  IRterost                                 -              11.4           11.5           11.5            116           11.6           11.6           11.6            11.6           11.6           11.6           11.6
Prtocipal                               -             142.3          144.1          144.1          144.5          145.1          145.2          145.2           145.2          045.2          145.2           145.2
Total DSbt Seric:                                               566.1           195.2          015.5          226            219.5         25R!.           207.6           505.4          19937          196.7          i7,
I-reemotal1 Asnoal Net Inceom  aftea  Bebt Orervie                         (21.3)           7.8          (12.0)           15.9           67.3           72.3           79.5           82.0            37.7           88.7          113.7           142.2
Financial Rote of Retfor:  351
Total A.onal Net I-ne after Debt Servieo:
Family lbaor irise                                        52,0            22.            52.5           52.5            52,0           52.0           52.0           52.0            52.5           52.5           52.0           22.5            52.0
Subasten-ce inco.e                                        57.8            36.5           65.6           45.8            70.5           70.5           70.5           70.5            70.5           70.5           70.5           70.5            70.5
tasB  tecags                        _                                      -              .               .              3.2           54.6           59.6           67.1            69.3           25,0           76.0          101.8          129.5
Total:                                                           5.5            117i6 92.5                    125.7          177.1           152.1          199.6                         147.5          195.5           223 5252.0
Ll  BNllocko replafed, erigisol poir sold for meat sal-vge a 20,000, r-dtd -       eenvestment.
/2  Ma-or equip-ent repei-s.
3 Includtig impoted tost fto family labor (¢ 52,000 pee yese).
/4  Exaludes i=ea   ftre  family labor (9 52,000).



ANNEX 12
Page 1
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        For calculating the rate of return of the Project to the economy,
the following assumptions have been made:
(a) for vegetables and cassava domestic market prices
prevailing in mid 1973 have been used for the econ-
omic evaluation. For the other products (cotton,
maize, soybeans and beef), prices have been adjusted
in accordance with the projections of the Bank's
Commodity and Export Projections Division for 1980;
(b) present internal market prices have been used for
evaluating investments and current production ex-
penditures including family and hired labor after
making due allowance for taxes and for custom fee
on imported items; and
(c) since only 2,000 of the 5,000 farms benefiting
directly from the infrastructural investments would
initially participate in the agricultural credit
program, forty percent of the infrastructural in-
vestment cost is charged to those 2,000 farmers
receiving agricultulral credit. Similarly, since
the effects of technical assistance is also expected
to benefit more than the 2,000 farmers participating
directly in the agricultural development program,
only 85% of technical assistance cost has been
charged to the 2,000 Project farmers benefiting from
the lending program.
2.        Table 1 presents the streams of costs and benefits over the assumed
15 year economic life of the Project. The estimated rate of return to the
economy would be 12% if investment costs for technical assistance roads,
schools, health centers and community centers are accounted for. If invest-
ment cost for social infrastructure (schools, health and community centers)
are disregarded, the rate of return would be 13%.
3.        To test the Project's sensitivity to deviations from the basic
assumptions, alternative estimates have been made based upon:



ANNEX 1 2_
Page 2
(a)  a reduction of gross benefits by 10% (equivalent to
a reduction of product prices or volume of output by
10% or a 10% increase of production cost); and
(b) an increase investment cost by 20% (equivalent 20%
rise in prices or physical volume of works).
4.        As a result of a reduction of gross benefits by 10% or an increase
of investments costs by 20%, the rate of return from the Project (including
on farm investment, technical assistance and roads) would drop to 11% and
10% respectively.
February 13, 1974



*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 
P A R A G U A y
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
(in 9 '000)
Year:   .............         1                  2                  3                  4                  5                  6                  7-8                 9                  lE                11-15
Net Incremnotal I-ne .-                                                            1.3               16.9               41.0               91.3              137 9              138.4               138.4              138.4              138.4
Capital Investment:
On-fm                                                      120.5              120.6                74.9                -                  -                  -                  -                  49.9                -
Technical a-sintance                                         12.4              10.7                 3.8                3.8                3.8                6.1                3.2                 3.2                3.2                 -
R.odn                                                       72.8               72.8                11.5               13.0               13.0               13.0                13.0               13.0               13.0                13.0
Schools, he.lth  and connunity centers                      17.3               17.8                 IE0                1.0                1.0                i.E                                    1.0                1.0                1.E
Total:                                            223.0               2219                91.2               17.8               17.8               20.1                17.2               67.1               17.2               14.0
Net Incteenetal Flow:
Including on-form i-veatm-nt end technic-l
.a-istance                                              (132.9)            (130.0)              (61.8)             37.2                87.5              131.8              135.2                85.3              135.2              138.4
Including on-fare  investnent, tecahncul
.suistance and -ods                                     (205.7)            (202.8)              (73.3)              24.2               74.5              118.8              122.2                72.3              122.2               125.4
Including total inventment                                (223.0)            (220.6)              (74.3)              23.2               73.5              117.8              121.2                71.3              121.2               124.4
Economic  Rate of Return:  Including on-form i-nertment and technical nssistanc    23%
Including on-farm iveStment, technical assistance and tnds:  13%
Including on-farm iye-tment, technical .s.istance, roads, schools, heaith ce-tern and conunity centers:  127.






560                                                                               550
The boundaries shown on this map do not
imply endorsement or acceptance by the
World Bank and its affiliates & 
>Lc nhreoe  Coois
Caaguazu                                                                   u   Jxin m
P A R A G  U A Y                                                                       s<5
SMALL FARMER CREDIT AND RURAL                                                                          55-
DE\/ELOPMENT PROJECT 
Location  of  three  Colonies                                                    s
PROJECT COLONIES:                                           BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
LII ..-GENERAL STROESSNER (Former Pastoreo)                        BRANGHES:                 o                  U T H
260                                                                                                                    2a              
REPATRIACION                                            *  CATEGORY 1
JUAN LEON MALLORQUIN                                    0  CATEGORY 3
ROADS                                                       AGENCY:                                                 >
~ RIVERS                                                           CATEGORY 2
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  0       10     20       30      40      50
KILOMETERS                          .J
af                                                                               550






L~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .222 t:2  a0- 
I4    :1: 0 1 I.   X                              :1
A  4                                       /2/Z>E
-        '~   ms     o2''i /              
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i ' 0y X       S1'2  , 
IL~~~~~~~~~
F-    i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u
'7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
.7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
i   °   r   X ~~~~~~~~ D  v    2   H 0 0  $; 0 X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~x    i  _
tLLZ   _
'2)         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ¾)01L



