CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 509 PA
Project Agreement
(Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
DATED SEPTEMBER 6, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 509 PA
Project Agreement
(Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
DATED SEPTEMBER 6, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANCO
NACIONAL DE FOMENTO (hereinafter called BNF).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BNF agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BNF, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherf:ver used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part F of the Project
Section 2.01. BNF shall carry out Part F of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) BNF shall on-lend the proceeds of the Credit made available
to it under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to Beneficiaries under Sub-loans on


﻿4
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, in accordance with the Operating Policies and Procedures
set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)   BNF shall on-lend in the Project Area exclusively funds from    the
Project Account during the period of disbursement of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Categories (3) and (4) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) BNF shall make Sub-loans on terms whereby BNF shall
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower
and BNF, including in the case of any such Sub-loan, the right of BNF to: (i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Farm Development Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards, and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1)
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
purchased through regular commercial channels, at a reasonable price, account being
taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts
therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the
parties rendeing them and (2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the Farm Development Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or
jointly with representatives of the Association if the Association shall so request,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Farm
Development Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower, or
BNF shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary; and (v) suspend or terminate
the right of the 9eneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure
of such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with BNF;
(b)   BNF shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-loan in such manner
as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and BNF, and
(ii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. BNF: (a) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (b) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds


﻿5
and any relevant records and documents; and (c) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. BNF shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
BNF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. BNF shall: (a) assign not less than five field technicians to
each settlement colony included in the Project Area in order to (i) assist
Beneficiaries in the preparation of applications for Sub-loans; and (ii) appraise all
such applications in terms of incremental returns; and
(b)   provide such technicians with the vehicles received from the Borrower
pursuant to Section 3.12 of the Development Credit Agreement and with adequate
funds for the operation and maintenance of such vehicles.
Section 2.07. (a) BNF shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of Part F of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)       furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of Part F of the Project.
(b)   BNF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of Part F of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BNF
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BNF
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall conduct its business and operations in
accordance with appropriate financial, agricultural and administrative practices and
under the supervision of competent and experienced management.


﻿6
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BNF shall
strengthen with qualified and experienced staff its Collection Division and maintain
it under the authority of a senior officer of BNF in order to: (a) review all BNF's
loans overdue and payable since March 14, 1961; and (b) take appropriate remedial
action in respect of such loans.
Section 3.03. BNF shall, unless the Association agrees to other dates:
(a)   within twelve months after the date of this Agreement, recover not
less than twenty per cent (20%) of the aggregate principal amount of Grain Program
Loans outstanding on December 31, 1972 and unpaid;
(b)   within twelve months after the date of this Agreement furnish to the
Association:
(i)        a detailed analysis of the remaining principal amount of each
Grain Program Loan outstanding and unpaid, together with
unpaid interest, and specifying the account number of each such
Grain Program Loan; and
(ii)       a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, based on such
analysis and providing in respect of the Grain Program Loans
for (A) their aggregate principal amount outstanding and unpaid
to be repaid not later than May 28, 1983 and unpaid interest
to be paid over a period of five years ending not later than
May 28, 1988, or (B) their immediate and full depreciation, or
(C) other appropriate remedial action; and promptly carry out
such plan; and
(c) within twelve months after the date of this Agreement, furnish to the
Association a plan satisfactory to the Association for reducing the amount of BNF's
loans not included in (a) and (b) and overdue and payable since March 14, 1961
to not more than ten per cent (10%) of the portfolio of each BNF banking
department and carry out such plan within twenty-four months after the date of
this Agreement.
As used in this paragraph "Grain Program Loans" means loans made under
the "Programa Nacional de Trigo y Soja" of BNF.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. BNF shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. BNF shall establish and maintain a separate Project Account
exclusively for the Project and shall record in it all receipts and payments for
or in connection with the Project, including: (a) amounts disbursed to, and received
from, Beneficiaries under Sub-loans; (b) the funds specified in Section 6.01(e) of
the Development Credit Agreement; and (c) such amounts out of the funds paid
to BNF by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.14 of the Development Credit
Agreement and within such periods after the date of such Agreement as hereinafter
specified: (i) not less than thirty million guaranies (030,000,000) within twelve
months; (ii) not less than sixty million guaranies (060,000,000) within twenty-four
months; (iii) not less than sixty million guaranies (060,000,000) within thirty-six
months; and (iv) not less than forty-eight million guaranies (048,000,000) within
forty-eight months.
Section 4.03. (a) BNF shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BNF and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and without limiting
the generality of the foregoing BNF shall: (i) have the Project Account audited
quarterly in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six weeks after the end of
each quarter, (A) certified copies of the Project Account for such quarter as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish


﻿8
to the Association such other information concerning the Project Account and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. BNF shall increase the rate of interest on the aggregate principal
amount outstanding of all loans made a month after Effective Date, or such other
date as the Association shall agree, to not less than twelve per cent (12%) per
annum.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BNF shall
maintain a liquidity ratio of not less than 1.1:1 and a debt/equity ratio not
exceeding 4:1. As used in this Section, "liquidity ratio" means the ratio of assets
recoverable within twelve months to liabilities maturing within twelve months,
excluding short-term financing from Banco Central; and "debt/equity ratio" means
the ratio of outstanding indebtedness of more than one year maturity to the total
of paid-up equity capital plus free reserves.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of BNF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BNF of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿I
9
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BNF:
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Independencia Nacional y Cerro Cord
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:
PYTYBO
Asunci6n
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BNF may be taken or executed by the President or such other person or persons
as the President shall designate in writing.


﻿10
Section 6.03. BNF shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BNF, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BNF pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / A. D. Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE FOMENTO
By /s / Miguel Solano Lopez
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
1.    Sub-loans approvals
All Sub-loans shall be made with the approval of the Project
Coordinator.
2.    Farm Development Projects
Beneficiaries shall contribute at least ten per cent (10%) (in cash or
in kind) of the total cost of Farm Development Projects.
3.    Terms and conditions of Sub-loans
Sub-loan agreements shall include the following provisions:
(a)   the principal amount outstanding of each Sub-loan shall bear interest
at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) per annum;
(b)   the repayment terms shall reflect the payment ability of the Beneficiary
based upon the cash flow projections of the Farm Development Project
and be within the limits set forth below:
Maximum   Minimum
term      term
Type of Sub-loan        Grace period    including grace period
(years)             (years)
(i)  on-farm investment          2               10         5
(ii)  working capital                             1         -
(c)   the repayment of principal and payment of interest and other charges
of Sub-loans shall be in guaranies and the Beneficiary shall not bear
any foreign exchange risk; and
(d)   the proceeds of Sub-loans shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of a Farm Development Project.


