CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 509 PA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small Farmer Credit aiid Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 6, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 509 PA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 6, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 6, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF
PARAGUAY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Borrower and Banco Nacional
de Fornento with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Banco Nacional de Fomento part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Banco Nacional de Fomento;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(b)   "BNF" means Banco Nacional de Fomento;


﻿4
(c)   "Beneficiary" means an individual farmer of the Project Area to which
BNF proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
(d)   "CNCE" means the Consejo Nacional de Coordinaci6n Econ6mica
established under Law No. 47 of November 25, 1948;
(e)   "CNPS" means the Conse/o Nacional de Progreso Social established
under Decree No. 24879 of March 3, 1967;
(f)   "guarani" and the symbol "G" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(g)   "IBR" means the Instituto de Bienestar Rural established under Law
No. 852 of March 22, 1963;
(h)   "Farm Development Project" means a development project included
in the Project, to be carried out by a Beneficiary and to be financed in part by
means of a Sub-loan;
(i)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 4.02 of
the Project Agreement;
(j)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BNF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes the Schedule to the Project Agreement;
(k)   "Project Area" means the area included within the settlement colonies
known as Mallorquin (O'Leary included), Repatriacidn and General Stroessner
(formerly Pastoreo);
(1)   "Project Coordinator" means the coordinator referred to in Section
3.08 hereof;
(m) "Sub-loan" means a short-term loan for working capital or a medium-
or long-term loan for investment made or proposed to be made by BNF to a
Beneficiary for a Farm Development Project, in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement; and
(n)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BNF pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars ($11,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for Parts A, B, D and E of
the Project and to be financed out of '1-e proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
on the basis of international competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in April 1972, as amended in October 1972, and in accordance with
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
March 1, 1985 and ending September 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on September 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
Section 2.09. (a) BNF is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions, with respect to Categories (3) and (4) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   Banco Central is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions, with
respect to Categories (1), (2) and (5) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project
through its Ministerios de Educaci6n y Culto and Salud Pablicay Bienestar Social,
respectively, and Parts C, D and E through its Ministerio de Obras Pblicas y
Comunicaciones with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, administrative, economic, financial and engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend to BNF the proceeds of the Credit allocated
to Categories (3) and (4) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BNF under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, including the
following:
(i)        interest on the principal amount outstanding of the loan shall
be five per cent (5%) per annum;
(ii)        BNF shall repay the loan over a period of twenty years, including
a grace period of five years; and
(iii)      the Borrower shall bear the foreign exchange risk.
(c)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BNF to
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BNF to perform such


﻿7
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. In order to assist Ministerio de Obras Pblicas y Comunicaciones
in the design, planning, control and supervision of Parts C and D of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause Ministerio de Obras Pblicas y Comunicaciones to employ
engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A, B, C and D.1 and 3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to ensure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all


﻿8
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such actions
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause CNPS to (a) coordinate and supervise
the carrying out of the Project; and (b) ensure close cooperation between all
interested ministries, agencies and instrumentalities of the Borrower and BNF on
all matters related to the Project.
Section 3.08. In order to assist CNPS in fulfilling the tasks referred to in
Section 3.07 hereof, the Borrower shall appoint a Project Coordinator acceptable
to the Association with such powers and responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. In order to assist the Project Coordinator, the Borrower shall,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, employ an agronomist,
a marketing specialist and an agricultural credit specialist, all acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall assign, or cause to be assigned, to each
settlement colony in the Project Area: (a) five extension agents, including a
veterinarian, from the Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderi'a; and (b) five members
of the IBR staff.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (a) cause the Project Coordinator and the
specialists referred to in Section 3.09 hereof to reside in the Project Area; and
(b) provide the Project Coordinator and such specialists with the necessary
supporting administrative staff.
Section 3.12. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a)
assign the vehicles included in such Part E approximately as follows: fifteen each
to BNF, IBR and the Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia, and five to the
personnel referred to in Section 3.11(a) hereof; and (b) provide adequate funds
for the operation and maintenance of such vehicles except for those assigned to
BNF.


﻿9
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause IBR to take all necessary action to
expedite in the settlement colonies in the Project Area: (a) the delimitation of
individual plots of land; (b) the issue of land titles to settlers; and (c) the collection
of debts for land purchase.
Section 3.14. The Borrower undertakes: (a) in addition to the amounts to
be paid to BNF as a condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, to subscribe
to BNF's capital stock and pay an aggregate amount of not less than seven hundred
and twenty million guaranies (0720,000,000) in five installments, one of not less
than one hundred and twenty million guaranies (0120,000,000) and four of not
less than one hundred and fifty million guaranies (0150,000,000) each, within
twelve, twenty-four, thirty-six, forty-eight and sixty months, respectively, after the
date of this Agreement; and (b) to take such steps as shall be necessary on its
part for BNF to take remedial action on amounts overdue and payable since
March 14, 1961 under BNF's loans.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts
A, B, C, D and E of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing the Borrower
shall maintain or cause each of its departments or agencies responsible to carrying
out any part of the Project to maintain separate accounts and records for any
such part of the Project, which accounts and records shall reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices and in accordance
with auditing principles consistently applied acceptable to the Association, the
operation and financial condition of the Borrower or its departments and agencies,
as appropriate, in respect of the execution of any such part of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall have (i) the accounts referred to in sub-paragraph
(b) hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such accounts
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,


﻿10
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning such accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall operate, or cause to be operated, the
institutions and facilities included in the Project in accordance with sound
administrative, engineering, educational and sanitary policies and practices and with
due regard to economy.
(b)   The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be employed,
qualified staff in adequate numbers to operate the institutions included in the
Project.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall adequately maintain or cause to be
maintained the roads, buildings, furniture and equipment included in the Project
and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in
accordance with sound engineering, technical and administrative practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance of
the buildings, equipment and facilities included in the Project against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate business practices.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BNF shall have failed to perform   any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that BNF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BNF or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿11
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and BNF.
(b)   The event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BNF have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BNF have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Project Coordinator referred to in Section 3.08 has been appointed
and has commenced his assignment.
(d)  Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderl'a, IBR and BNF have assigned,
respectively, to the Project Area the personnel referred to in Section 3.10 and
in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
(e)   The Borrower has transferred to BNF and BNF has credited to the
Project Account not less than thirty million guaranies (C30,000,000) as payment
for BNF capital stock.
(f)   The Borrower has transferred to BNF not less than fifty-five million
guaranies (055,000,000) as payment for the Borrower's outstanding debts to BNF.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿12
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BNF, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BNF in accordance with its terms.
(b)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BNF,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
BNF in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date December 9, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Asunci6n
Republic of Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n, Paraguay
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿13
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By /s / Miguel Solano Lopez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / A. D. Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                    3,660,000         70%
under Parts A, B,
C and D.I and 3
of the Project
(2)  (a)   Vehicles.                1,000,000         100% of foreign
and equip-                                 expenditures
ment
(b)  Furniture                  100,000          70% of local
expenditures
(3)  Medium and                     4,000,000         78% of amounts
long-term                                        disbursed
sub-loans
(4)  Short-term                     2,200,000         78% of amounts
sub-loans                                        disbursed in the
first and second
six month periods
of the first year
after the date of
this Agreement, and
78% of amounts dis-
bursed in the first
and second six month
periods of any sub-
sequent year over
and above amounts
disbursed in the
first and second
six month periods,
respectively, of the
preceding year.
(5)  Project                          40,000          100%
Coordinator
TOTAL        11,000,000


﻿15
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) except in respect of expenditures under Categories (2)(a) and (5), if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item to be financed under Categories (1) and (2)(a) is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿16
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project will provide roads, social infrastructure, technical assistance and
credit facilities to farmers as required to rehabilitate the settlement colonies in
the Project Area, and consists of the following Parts:
A.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of about 26 primary schools.
B.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of two new health centers and
equipping of the health center of Mallorquin.
C.    Construction, furnishing and equipping of three community centers.
D.    1.   Construction of about 60 km of all-weather roads.
2.    Construction of about 250 km of earth roads.
3.    Construction of bridges and culverts for the earth roads included in
D.2.
E.    Purchase and utilization of about 50 vehicles and of an earth moving unit
consisting of the equipment listed in the Exhibit to this Schedule.
F.    Making of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries to finance Farm Development Projects.
Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1978.


﻿18
EXHIBIT TO SCHEDULE 2
Equipment of the earth moving unit:
3    Motorgraders, 125 hp.
3    D-7 tractors, 180 hp, each complete with hydraulically operated equipment
comprising angle dozer, 3 shank ripper and matched towed scraper of
10.7/13.8 m3 struck/heaped capacity.
1    Pneumatic tire hydraulically operated front loader of 1.5 m3 capacity.
6    Dump trucks, 6-ton capacity.
1    Fully equipped mobile workshop on 6-ton chassis.
1    Grease truck on 6-ton chassis.
1    Flat-bed truck, 6-ton capacity, complete with
hydraulic lifting equipment.
3    4-wheel drive vehicles.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Whenever practicable, civil works, equipment and furniture shall be grouped
to form one or more economic bid packages.
3.    Civil works contracts for the construction of the three community centers
included in Part C of the Project and furniture contracts may be procured in
accordance with the procurement procedures of the Borrower in force on the date
of this Agreement.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shaill intorm
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association


﻿20
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Coordinator
The main functions of the Project Coordinator will be to:
(a)   prepare the annual programs for carrying out the Project;
(b)   furnish the annual programs to CNPS for approval and to CNCE and
the Association for information;
(c)   direct and control the subsequent execution of the agreed program;
(d)   ensure that BNF and IBR make a separate and identifiable financial
allocation in their annual expenditure budgets to cover the agreed total cost of
their contribution in that year to Project development, including operational and
maintenance costs, and coordinate all action to be taken on behalf of the Ministerios
de Agricultura y Ganaderia, Salud P6blica y Bienestar Social, Educacidn y Culto,
and Obras Ptblicas y Comunicaciones to make such financial allocation in their
annual expenditure budgets;
(e)   coordinate the carrying out of Section 4.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(f)  inform CNPS, CNCE and the Association on (d) and (e) hereof;
(g)   countersign all expenditures eligible for reimbursement out of the
Credit;
(h)   prepare quarterly progress reports for the information of CNPS, CNCE
and the Association; and
(i)   act as the channel of communication with the Association.


