CA.     7h?F
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3547-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 5.9 MILLION
(AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.3 MILLION)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
.May 2, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00          =    US$0.11
US$1.00           =    TSh 9.40
US$1.00           =    SDR 0.927
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 9.40 which was the level set in the most
recent exchange rate adjustment in March 1982. The USDollar/SDR exchange
rate used in this report is that of March 31, 1983.)
ABBREVTATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC       -       Colonial (now Commonwealth) Development
Corporation
MOM       -       Ministry of Minerals
MWE       -       Ministry of Water and Energy
STAMICO   -       State Mining Corporation
TANESCO   -       Tanzania Electric Supply Company
TPDC      -       Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
toe       -       tonnes of oil equivalent
tpy       -       tonnes per year
FISCAL YEAR
Government  -   July 1 to June 30



TrANZANIA            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Coal Engineering Project
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:            Ministry of Minerals (MOM) and State,
Mining Corporation (STAMICO)
Amount:                 SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:    The project would support Government efforts ro
evaluate the economic potential of the indigenous
coal resources of Tanzania. Its objectives would
be (i) to provide the Government with updated
geological data on the Kabulo Ridge area in the
Songwe-Kiwira coalfield, and to complete a
feasibility study for commercial development of
this deposit, if warranted, and (ii) to assist with
.the exploration and delineation of further reserves
at Tanzania's only producing coal mine at Ilima.
The project would also strengthen the technical and
management capabilities of MOM and STAMICO in coal
operations and financial administration,
Benefits:               The project would broaden Tanzania's energy supply
base by establishing the costs and most appropriate
technical means of extracting coal from new sites.
Foreign exchange savings of about US$3 million per
year could be achieved by 1987 from industrial uses
of domestic coal, if follow-up investments were
made at Ilima. In the longer term, confirmation of
coal availability at Kabulo Ridge at a reasonable
cost would open up attractive alternativas to
hydroelectric and hydrocarbon based power
generation facilities.
Risks:                  There is a small risk that further coal exploration
work will not confirm the existence of economically
and technically viable deposits at Kabulo and
Ilima. The main exploration component would hence
be phased to allow assessment of preliminary
geological results, as well as the market outlook
for coal, prior to undertaking further
expenditures.
This document has a-restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



Estimated                              Local     Foreign      Total
Project Costs:'                                US$ million-
Kabulo Ridge Exploration and        0.44       3.77         4.21
Feasibility Study
Ilima Exploration                   0.14       0.15        0.29
Training and Technical              0.13       0.45        0.58
Assistance
Sub-total      0.71        4.37        5.08
Contingencies:
Physical                         0.10       0.54        0.64
Price                            0.26       0.99        1.25
Total           1.07       5.90        6.97
Financing Plan:                        Local     Foreign     Total     %
---------US$ million------
IDA                                 0.40       5.90        6.30   90%
Government                          0.67         -         0.67    10%
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                     1984     1985     1986     1987
---------US$ million-----------
Annual                           0.19     2.36     2.12     1.63
Cumulative                       0.19     2.55     4.67     6.30
Rate of Return:             Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:     No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared.
1The project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 5.9 million (US$6.3
million) equivalent on standard terms to help finance a Coal Engineering
Project. The proceeds of the credit would be passed on to the State Mining
Corporation by the Government as an equity contribution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 3086-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 23, 1981. A revised
memorandum, based on the work of two economic missions which visited
Tanzania in July and September 1982, will be issued in late 1983.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Govern-
ment's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffi-
ciency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive
agricultural projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as
high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Govern-
ment's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widen-
ing income differentials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the
rural areas. In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities, enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the intro-
duction of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of government (1972),
and the mass campaign of viliagization (1974-76).



-2-
4.        Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvemnnts both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Primary school enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in the mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate of return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to
1973.  This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials.   Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s and early 1980s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country
with limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the
expense of efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford
these costs? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania. Agricultural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
fall in foodgrain production. The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrains for cash. Export crop
production also fell during this period and the barter terms of trade
dropped by about one-thl'rd during these two years. As a result, the
current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to around US$340
million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the recurrent budget fell
into deficit and GovE:nro-,nt bank borrowing rose from TSh.416 million in
1973/74 to TSh.1061. millivo in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program loan from the Bank, Under this program, import
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC.    Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted:    declining export volmes,



-3-
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and
infrastructure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979 and flooding and drought in different
parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit and the
Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first time
since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and
revenues improved by only 10%. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh. 600 million in 1977/78 to more than
TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this
latter trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture,
which seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project
experience and the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more
realistic growth rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture,
overall GDP growth since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum.
With population growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase
in per capita GDP of only 0.7% per annum. There also has been a change in
the structure of the economy over the past seven years, away from the
productive monetary sector and towards subsistence and service activities.
Excluding public administration, commercial services and trade, the
monetary sector has grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past seven years,
well below the population growth rate. This change in the structure of the
economy has been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to
mobilize domestic resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975. The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by 1980.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace



-4-
with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed.   This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(tWrough the formation of villaaes and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production direct-
ly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, with-
out careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural
production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather thinly
throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role assigned to
the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for policy
planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail
and water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
maintenan-e and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottlenecks
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past three years. Export
volumes have fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s
and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have declined by 27%
since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Owing to these adverse developments, the
purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1980 was one-third lower than in
1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. Part of this shortfall has been
offset by additional external resources, including a sharp increase in
commodity and program aid to more than US$200 million in 1980, as well as
by drawings under the IMF standby program concluded in September 1980. But
Tanzania has also had to utilize large amounts of exceptional financing,
including suppliers' credits and an increase in import payment arrears.
Despite this, the volume of imports has had to be severely curtailed, and
in 1982, was still no higher than in the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the deterioration in international commodity prices,
as well as the limited scope for further exceptional financing, there is
little immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments.
This continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing production
and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls in exports



and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be difficult to
break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and
major improvements in producer incentives, parastatal operations, import
allocations, the promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall
government planning and budgeting. In March/April 1981, the Government
introduced a number of significant measures--such as higher producer prices
for coffee, sisal and tobacco and the establishment of a Special
Agricultural Account at the Bank of Tanzania to ensure that a substantial
proportion of foreign exchange earnings are returned to the agricultural
sector. This Export Rehabilitation Program was supported by a US$50
million credit from IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA).
13.       During negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March
1981, agreement was also reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on
Follow-Up Measures. These included more restraint and selectiveness in the
public investment program, more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy, improved foreign exchange
buidgeting, a re-examination of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates)
of the State-owned crop authorities, the introduction of more payment-by-
results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost recovery
arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed that an
independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the Government in
preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. The Government adopted a large number of its
recommendations and incorporated these in a Structural Adjustment Program
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of
important initiatives and propcsals. The development budget for 1982/83
has been substantially cut back for the second year in a row to release
resources for the operations and maintenance needs of the economy.
Difficult decisions have? been taken in the light of limitations on
available foreign exchange and physical resources. The price control
system has been reviewed and food marketing arrangements are to be
reorganized. The Government has begun to allocate a larger, though still
inadequate, share of foreign exchange resources to agriculture through the
Special Agricultural Account established under the Export Rehabilitation
Program. Agricultural producer prices have been adjusted to maintain them
broadly constant in real terms, and the Government has announced its
intentions to relax restrictions on interregional trade. It has also
opened up the marketing of some funds (mainly minor grains such as millet)
to anyone interested in conducting such trade. Special steps are being
taken to control Government recurrent spending and to reduce parastatal
losses. The functions of key agricultural agencies are being reduced and
will be taken over by other bodies, such as cooperatives. All of these
measures will serve to trim overall burdens on the public sector and give
further encouragement to smallholder production.
15.       However, while most of the key issues of economic recovery have
been raised in the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, important
decisions remain to be taken on matters such as the exchange rate and real
adjustments to agricultural prices. Furthermore, the Government has yet to
complete the preparation of specific action programs in key sectors (e.g.
transport) which would have a measurable impact on production. In



-6-
the most important economic sector - agriculture - a Presidential
Commission has recently prepared a detailed set of recommendations, and a
Government policy paper on agriculture has been issued. Measures proposed
include the elimination of most consumer food price subsidies, reduction in
the field marketing responsibilities of the export crop parastatals,
relaxation of import procedures for agricultural inputs and equipment and
the strengthening of research and extension services. However, follow-up
work is still needed to permit implementation of some of these measures and
to define appropriate policies in other key areas, especially the
decentralization of input distribution and the diversification of crop
marketing channels. Further work is also necessary in estimating the
resource requirements of a medium term adjustment program and indicating
precisely how domestic and foreign exchange budgets will be administered to
support the program.
16.       A Bank economic mission reviewed the Government's program in
September/October 1982. The recommendations of the Government's
Agricultural Commission, and an agricultural sector report prepared by Bank
staff were also discussed with senior Government officials in Dar es Salaam
in March 1983. Bank staff will assist the Government during the next few
months in further strengthening its proposed agricultural rehabilitation
program.
17.       Discussions with the IMF on a possible Standby Arrangement are
continuing. Tanzania has had no access to Fund facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Following three rounds of discussions in May, June and
August 1982, the Government invited a Fund mission to visit Dar es Salaam
for three weeks in October 1982. No agreement was reached during this
mission, particularly on the appropriate magnitude of an exchange rate
adjustment, and discussions were resumed briefly in Washington in March
1983.  An IMF mission visited Tanzania again for Article IV consultations
in April 1983.
18.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. To sustain an increase in per capita
GDP will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful
review of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects
with long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerted effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this include further drawings
from the IMF (which could add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,



-7-
additional new commitments from traditional bilatera.l and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government,'s previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during the 1980s. In 1981, it is estimated that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania' s external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 33%) and the Bank Group received 21% of Tanzania's debt service.
Including Tanzania's share of obligations under East Africa Community
loans, the Bank's exposure was 17% (and the Bank Group share, 36%). This
level of Bank exposure reflects in part the impact of recent debt
write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and 1979. We are projecting
the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall over the coming decade owing
to the reduced IBRD component in the lending program and the continued need
for Tanzania to borrow funds on less concessional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.   Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 54 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$1046.8 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 millioz. which were extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community.  IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC
investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by
the Executive Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million
in metal product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II
contains summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:    (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has
been focussed primarily on rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development and foreign exchange budgets; have been
centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions; have
been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general supply
difficulties i.n the economy; and have included considerable technical



8-
assistance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital
facilities and more effective resource allocation in the economy. Recent
lending along these lines has included a second petroleum exploration
project, a third technical assistance credit (focussed on key manpower gaps
in the agricultural sector), and a rehabilitation credit for the Dar es
Salaam sewerage system.
23.       A small number of other projects may be proposed in the
agriculture, energy and transport sectors during the next three years. A
fourth power project, a rehabilitation program for the port of Dar es
Salaam and an eighth education project have been appraised. A sixth
highways project, involving mainly the reconstruction of sections of the
Tanzania-Zambia highway, and a sugar and cotton rehabilitation project are
also under preparation. 'nowever, the design of viable projects in the
productive sectors of the economy, especially agriculture and industry,
will remain problematical in the absence of a wide ranging economic
adjustment program.
24.       In addition to financing specific projects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of
Government efforts to deal with its balance of payments difficulties. The
first such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, and the most
recent, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April
1981.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last four years by the disruptions of the Uganda War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which have resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for purchasing them have been adequate. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by pr'ject budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Despite implementation difficulties, disbursements have
remained remarkably steady; Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58
million in FY78 to US$81 million in FY81 and reached US$114 million in
FY82. A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that Tanzanian disbursements have been slightly below average for
the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commitments at the start
of the financial year, from 18.9% in 1976 to 15.7% in 1980 (compared with
20.6% and 16.5% in the same years for the Region as a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank staff agreed to
recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several projects which
have faced persistent implementation problems. At the same time it was
agreed that the Project Implementation Monitoring Unit at the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs would. be strengthened as a focal point for
further consolidation and itriprovements in the Bank Group program.
Intensive supervision, and in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project, timely assistance from co-financiers have already had soiMe



- 9 -
remedial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on
imnlementation have been most severe, there have been important
improvements in some projects, e.g. Dairy Development. However,
considerable work remains to be done in improving project implementation
and disbuis;e;ents.  The next Country Implementation Review will be held in
October 1983.
East African Community (EAC)
27.        Developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a iieraorandum, dated December 29,
1977, (R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (Sec M80-364). One
of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the
Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation, that
the East Africa Development Bank (EADB) -- one of the former Community's
institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted. The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
The negotiations started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April
1982 in Jinja, September 1982 in Nairobi and December 1982 in Kampala.
The discussions have passed the fact finding stage and are now focussing on
details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it is generally
accepted that both location of assets and the principle of equal rights of
all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the weight to be
given to these pri ncinips from case to case remains the major issue in the
continuing negotiations.
III. THE ENERGY AND COAL SECTORS
Energy Resource Base and Development Strategy
28.       Total energy consumption in Tanzania in 1980 was about 5 million
tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) or 7.5 million tonnes of coal equivalent
(tce). About 87% of total consumption comes from the country's forest
resources in forms of charcoal and firewood, mainly in the subsistence
sector. The remaining 13% is commercial energy, consisting of imported
crude oil and refined products, hydroelectricity and domestic coal.
29.       Per capita consumption of commercial energy (about 52 kg of coal
equivalent in 1979) is considerably lower than that of other African
countries such as Kenya (180 kg), Angola (208 kg) and Zambia (858 kg).
This reflects constrained demand for imported petroleum and the limited
access to electricity in the rural areas as well as a less important
industrial and mining sector. Nonetheless, Tanzania spent US$260 million
in 1980, or about 50% of its foreign exchange earnings, for imported
energy.
30.       In 1970-75, demand for commercial energy grew at an average rate
of 4.9% p.a. In 1975-80, this rate of growth slowed to 1.4% p.a. following
steep increases in oil product prices, import restrictions, higher domestic
prices and conservation measures and an overall decline in economic



- 10 -
growth. Consumption of commercial energy is expected to grow at about 3%
p.a. in the 1980s, including a 6.6% per annum increase in electricity sales
following expansion of the national power grid.
31.       The Government's development strategy in the sector is to foster
domestic exploration of oil, gas, and coal and hydroelectric sites with a
view to eventual developmenc of such resources and to lowering the
country's dependency on imported oil. The Government is looking to coal
development (i) to satisfy the immediate and future demand of industries
for which energy is an important cost item and coal an appropriate fuel
(cement, paper, sugar), (ii) to substitute for firewood and charcoal in
household uses and hence reduce deforestation, and (iii) to replace fuel
oil in power generation, as far as possible, in the 1990s.
Institutional Framework
32.       The central authority for energy development in Tanzania is the
Ministry of Water and Energy (MWE). Three parastatals report to MWE:
the Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO) manages electricity
generation, transmission and distribution on the mainland; the Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) is responsible for exploration and
exploitation of oil and gas; and the Rufiji Basin Development Authority
(RUBADA) is intrusted with harnessing the multi-purpose potential of the
Rufiji River. While none of these institutions would be directly involved
in implementing the proposed project, TANESCO and TPDC have a particular
interest in seeing the long-term benefits of coal development assessed as a
possible basis Lor major power generation facilities in Western Tanzania.
33.       The Ministry of Minerals (MOM), which would have the primary role
in executing the project, was established in 1980 with responsibility for
policy and planning, administration and coordination of the mineral sector;
these matters had previously been the responsibility of MWE. The Ministry
is working to clarify sector policies and goals in an effort to spur
development. In this respect, the Ministry has prepared a mining sector
paper which was approved by the Cabinet in February 1983. The paper (i)
defines mining policies on private participations, dividends and royalty
payments, (ii) suggests short and long term goals, and (iii) establishes
mining priorities, essentially for development of industrial minerals, gold
and coal. The Ministry is working towards completion of a mining
investment code which will encourage greater private sector involvement.
34.       MOM has one parastatal organization reporting to it: this is the
State Mining Corporation (STAMICO), which is responsible for development
and exploitation of the country's mineral resources, including coal
(paragraphs 45-47).
Coal Sub-sector
35.       Resources.   The occurrence of coal in Tanzania was first reported
around 1880. However, until about 1930, little systematic work was
undertaken. At that time, some reconnaissance geological mapping took
place, principally in the southwestern part of the country. No additional
work took place until 1949, at which time the Colonial Development
Corporation (CDC) was invited by the then Government of Tanganyika to



evaluate coal deposits of the country with a view to their economic
development. This program extended from 1949 to 1957 and extensive
geological investigations were conducted. These investigations included
diamond drilling in the Ngaka, Mchuchuma and Songwe-Kiwira coalfields. The
investigations established the presence of coal in significamt quantities
but no development was attempted because of the limited market prospects.
Tanzanian coal resources are estimated at about 1,900 million tonnes of
which about 300 million tonnes are considered proven.
36.       Two further exploration projects have been undertaken in the past
six years: a geological investigation of the Songwe-Kiwira coal areas by a
team from the People's Republic of China and a study into the feasibility
of developing the Mchuchuma coalfield by a consortium of Dr. Otto Gold
GmbH, Rodeco GmbH and Saarberg-Interplan GmbH. The latter work was
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ). The primary objectives
were the development of these coals for use in conjunction with the nearby
iron ore deposits. Both these exploration projects have recently been
completed.  The iron ore projects were found to be uneconomic and no
further work on iron ore development is to be undertaken in the foreseeable
future.
37.       Production.  Coal production is limited to one small mine in the
Songwe-Kiwira coalfield. This mine, the Ilima colliery, has been worked
since 1953. Production is about 10,000 tonnes per year (tpy), which is
barely sufficient to meet present market demands in Western Tanzania.
Moreover, the present mine has not been developed systematically and poses
safety hazards. The Association has informed MOM and STAMICO officials and
the Mining Commissioner of the imminent dangers involved. At recent
production le-rels, the mine will be depleted and closed down in late 1983.
However, the proposed project would provide for the exploration of the
Ilima area with a view to establishing 10 years of additional reserves in
areas adjacent to the existing mine. If there were positive results from
exploration, production could be expected to resume by 1985 and reach about
40,000 tpy by 1987.
38.       Future Demand and Development Prospects.   Although the use of
coal in Tanzania is currently limited to domestic heating, brick burning
and tea-drying, a major increase in demand is expected to occur during the
1980s among established local industries and among households as a
replacement for firewood and charcoal which is being depleted. A breakdown
of the latest anticipated industrial demands is to be found in Annex IV
(page 2). Other possible users by 1990 are the cement factories at Dar es
Salaam and Tanga which are being studied for conversion to coal use (80,000
tpy), the brick factory at Dodoma (16,000 tpy), and textile and sugar
industries (up to 150,000 tpy). However, severe transportation
problems,including the distances involved (920 km from Songwe Kiwira to Dar
es Salaam), will probably inhibit the early development of these markets.
The largest potential demand for coal in the 1990s would be for thermal
power generation in Western Tanzania. While lower cost power sources may
materialize (including new hydroelectric sites currently being
investigated), transmission costs appear to favor coal as an eventual
energy source in the western parts of the country. Other means of
electrical generation (including natural gas and hydro-based facilities)
would probably meet demand in the Central and Coastal regions of Tanzania.



- 12 -
39.       The initial development to meet this increasing demand would be
the expansion of the Ilima mine on the Songwe-Kiwira field (paragraph 37).
The Government is also looking into two new mine developments: the Kabulo
Ridge project and the Ivogo Ridge project, both of which are also part of
the Songwe-Kiwira coalfield. This coalfield is most suited for early
development because of its relative proximity to infrastructure and
markets, compared with the Mchuchuma coalfield - Tanzania's other major
coal resource. The proposed project provides for exploration and a
feasibility study in support of the Kabulo Ridge development. The Chinese
Government is assisting in the development of the Ivogo Ridge project,
including preliminary infrastructure, such as an access road and staff
housing, for an eventual mine.
40.       The preliminary results of the Chinese study indicate that coal
development at Ivogo Ridge could be extremely costly because of the
requirement for underground mining, which is complicated by poor geological
and water conditions; by contrast, the Kabulo Ridge development could
likely permit relatively straightforward open pit mining techniques. The
Ivogo Ridge project has been reduced in scope in the last year from a
production level of 300,000 tpy to 150,000 tpy. Detailed feasibility work
on the project will be completed in late 1983. The Government would
provide the Association with a copy of the feasibility stujdy for Ivogo
Ridge and other sites to be examined as soon as they are available and
exchange views with the Association on their findings and recommendations
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The purpose
of such consultations would be to establish, in due course, an appropriate
investment program for coal development, taking into account the
differential costs associated with various mine sites (paragraph 53).
41.       Kabulo Ridge appears to offer excellent prospects for the
production of low grade coal suitable for industrial consumers and for
thermal power generation at relatively low cost. In general open-pit coal
mines are technologically more simple to develop and to operate and require
less capital and operating cost per annual tonne of production.    Kabulo
Ridge appears a classic example of an area where a low overburden to coal
ratio open pit can possibly be developed. This is in distinct contrast to
Ivogo Ridge where no open-pit possibilities exist. An Indian team which
assessed the Songwe-Kiwira coalfield in 1973, evaluated Kabulo Ridge, based
on the CDC drilling, and suggested that in excess of 20 million tons of low
grade (less than 30 percent ash) coal would be amenable to recovery by
open-pit methods.   A review of the data used and conclusions reached in
the Indian report confirms the probability of these findings.
42.       To preclude potentially sub-optimal developments in the industry,
the MOM would consult with the Association on the appropriate sequence of
future investments in the coal sector, based on the conclusion of
exploration work to be carried out under the proposed project and the
Government's economic assessment of the feasibility of various coal
exploitation alternatives (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and paragraph 53 below).



- 13 -
Energy Pricing
43.       The prices of oil products and other types of energy are
controlled by the Government. Oil prices are based on the imported cost of
crude oil and refined products plus transportation and tax.    However, there
are some cruss subsidies (e.g. between kerosene, industrial diesel and fuel
oil), to lessen the cost of household energy uses.
44.       Because coal has been used only to a limited extent, little
emphasis has been given to coal pricing policies or procedures by
the Government Pricing Commission. At Ilima colliery, the coal price has
been based roughly on production costs plus a mark-up. The Government has
indicated its willingness to review and establish systematic coal pricing
policies when the prospect of significant coal production is more clearly
established.
The State Mining Corporation (STAMICO)
45.       Organization and Management.   STAMICO was created in 1972 as a
parastatal corporation to take over mining companies that had recently been
nationalized. The Corporation reports to MOM. STAMICO is managed by a
Board of 7-11 members chaired by the Minister of Minerals. The General
Manager of STAMICO is appointed by the President. The legal functions of
STAMICO are extensive, enabling STAMICO to (i) carry on the business of
prospectors, producers, buyers, sellers and distributors of minerals; (ii)
conduct or engage in prospecting and mining operations at all levels; (iii)
acquire interests in any mining undertaking; and (iv) carry on operations
as principal agent or contractor. In practice, STAMICO acts as a holding
company for six operating subsidiaries, and directly oversees mine project
work up to the point of commercial production. STAMICO also engages in
mineral marketing on behalf of its subsidiaries and imports certain
commodities (e.g. salt) at Government request.
46.       STAMICO's financial condition and management capability are
weak. No formal financial statements have been prepared since 1980, and
those completed previously (1978-80) were considered by the Tanzania Audit
Corporation to be inadequate. The position of Director of Finance is
vacant, and only four out of the 16 senior financial and accounting
positions in the Finance Department are filled. Strengthening of STAMICO's
financial and accounting structure and organizational capability are
essential to the sound management of its future operations (paragraphs
55-56).
47.       STAMICO has recently prepared preliminary financial statements
for 1981 and 1982 and has agreed that audited accounts for those years will
be submitted to the Association by September 30, 1983 (Section 4.03 of the
draft Project Agreement).    As a part of the proposed project, training and
technical assistance in financial accounting and management systems would
be provided to strengthen STAMICO's operations.    (For additional
information regarding STAMICO, see paragraph 55 below and Annex IV, pages 3
and 4.)



- 14 -
Previous Bank Group Lending in the Energy Sector
48.       The Bank Group has made three loans to Tanzania for the
development of TANESCO's hydroelectric facilities. The first was Loan
518-TA for US$5.2 million to cover part of TANESCO's development program
for the period 1967-70; the second was Loan 715-TA for US$30 million and a
supplementary loan for US$5 million to finance part of the construction of
the First Stage of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Scheme, which was completed in
1975 (Project Performance Audit Report, December 19, 1979); and the third
was for the Second Stage of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Project, with Loan
1306-T-TA for US$30 million and a supplementary Special Action Credit of
US$7.0 million, which was completed in 1981, and for which a project
completion report is being prepared. These projects were implemented
satisfactorily, and a fourth hydroelectric project has recently been
appraised. Tanzania has received two IDA credits for petroleum
exploration, the first for US$30 million in 1980 for the initial phase of
the Songo Songo offshore exploration program, and the second in 1981 for
US$20 million to finance the second phase of this program. These projects
were also implemented satisfactorily, and a combined completion report is
being prepared. There has been no previous direct Bank Group involvement
in Tanzania's mining sector.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
49.       In 1979 a Bank mission carried out a preliminary assessment of
the coal sub-sector in Tanzania.   A follow-up identification mission in
September 1981 singled out the Kabulo Ridge area of the Songwe-Kiwira
coalfield as having potential for the development of an open-pit coal
mine. The proposed project was prepared with the cooperation of MOM and
STAMICO and was appraised in December 1982. A follow-up mission visited
Tanzania in February/March 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington on
April 19-22, 1983. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Mr. S. Lwakatare,
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Minerals, and included Mr. W. Manning,
General Manager of STAMICO. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the
beginning of this report. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached
as Annex III.
50.       Project Objectives and Description.   The proposed project would
support Government's efforts to evaluate the economic potential of the
indigenous coal resources of Tanzania. The project's objectives would be:
(i) to provide the Government with updated geological data on the Kabulo
Ridge area in the Songwe-Kiwira coal field and to complete a feasibility
study for this deposit, if warranted; (ii) to further assist with the
exploration and delineation of reserves at the Ilima colliery; and (iii) to
strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of MOM and STAMICO in
coal operations.



- 15 -
51.       The project would consist of three components:
(a) exploration/feasibility studies of Kabulo Ridge.
The exploration is to confirm and supplement the
existing data to a stage at which the potential
for economic open-pit coal mining could be clearly
established and a subsequent feasibility study for
an open-pit coal mine couild be undertaken;
(b) exploration of the Ilima coal reserves in the
immediate vicinity of the Ilima colliery; and
(c) technical assistance and training to strengthen
the capabilities of both the MOM and STAMICO in
the coal sub-sector.
Detailed Features
52.       Kabulo Ridge Studies.   This work would be a three-phase program
carried out sequentially. Detailed exploration work and the feasibility
study, both of which would require significant additional expenditures,
would be carried out only after successful completion of the previous
phase. The first phase would consist of assessing and interpreting the
available geological data base, and performing initial geological
fieldwork. A new interpretation of the area would be prepared as a basis
for identifying priority drill sites and rejecting unpromising areas. The
geological fieldwork would include the drilling of about fifteen
exploratory holes in the area. The second phase would be designed to
obtain all the data required for a feasibility study. It would include the
drilling of about 120 drillholes and the subsequent evaluation of all data
obtained. Reliable information would be obtained on coal quality as well
as the physical characteristics of the associated floor and roof rock
strata which would be important for any mine development plan. Additional
geological mapping, topographic mapping, test pitting, and bulk sampling
would also be carried out. Both phases are necessary to confirm that the
deposit can be mined by open pit methods. The third phase would be a
feasibility study for an open-pit coal mine which would determine the
economic, financial and technical viability of the most favorable area
located by the exploration program. The feasibility study would evaluate
alternative mining systems that could be used to recover the coal and
recommend the optimum system. The capital and operating costs for the
selected method would be determined. A study of infrastructure
requirements for the proposed mine would include consideration of supplying
coal both for a mine mouth power plant and for the industrial market, and
long-term market prospects would be assessed. The safe operation of the
mine and the training of both management and labor would be provided for in
the development plan. Special care would be taken to assess the
environmental impact of the mine development, particularly the risk of
possible pollution through acid water drainage from the mine. The impact
on the local population would also be assessed carefully.
53.       Regular progress reports and final reports for each phase would
be prepared and submitted to the Association. Transition from phase one to
phase two would be undertaken only after careful appraisal of the results
of the earlier phase and agreement with the Associatioa on the work program



- 16 -
for the next phase. Transition from phase two to phase three, which
entails commitment to feasibility work, would be based on satisfactory
review by the Association of the detailed completion report for phase- two
as well as an assessment of economic considerations, such as the market
outlook for coal at the time, the likely development costs of alternative
production sites and the availability of investment financing for the
technical options identified (Section 2.06(c) of the draft Project
Agreement and Schedule 1, paragraphs 3(b) and 3(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). If the results of the earlier work did not justify
undertaking a feasibility study, the balance of funds for this component
would be cancelled.
54.       Ilima Exploration.  The second component of the project would be
the exploration of the Ilima area of the Songwe-Kiwira coalfield to
determine whether there are additional reserves for continued production.
There are three blocks of coal reserves in Ilima. The present mine is
operating in only one of these blocks and it may be exhausted by December
1983; the other blocks have yet to be properly explored. The proposed
program at Ilima would involve drilling 10-12 boreholes over 4-6 months
followed by preparation of an appropriate mining plan.
55.       Technical Assistance and Training.   The project would also
attempt to build up a nucleus of expertise at MOM and STAMICO to manage the
development of the coal sub-sector in Tanzania.   The technical assistance
would be internationally recruited and would include a full-time secondment
to MOM of a senior coal mining adviser, attached directly to the Minister's
and Principal Secretary's office; the adviser would be appointed by
February 1, 1984 (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). He would provide guidance to MOM on coal sector development,
including coordination of sectorwide investment analysis (paragraph 53),
and would establirsh a training program for MOM and STAMICO in conjunction
with the training officer at STAMICO.   A full-time senior financial, expert
would also be appointed to the Finance Department of STAMICO by December
31, 1983 (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The expert
would be responsible for organizing and structuring a financial management
and control system for STAMICO and its subsidiaries.   The senior financial
expert would also establish a training program for the accounting staff of
headquarters and projects divisions, and provide guidance and training to
the junior staff.  STAMICO would appoint two senior accountants and appoirt
three other accountants to positions now vacant in the two accounting
divisions by January 1, 1984 (Section 3.01 of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       Training would be provided in coal geology and mine engineering
so that future operations could be handled principally by local
specialists. Two geologists would be trained initially by the consultants
at the drill camp at Kabulo Ridge. After a period of six to eight months
at the site they would each spend four to six months abroad at an
exploration camp and at the consultants' office. This would enable them to
prepare the detailed geological reports required for mine planning and
operation. The three mining engineers at Ilima would be trained abroad in
coal mine planning, development and extraction (in geological conditions
comparable to those at Ilima) and in mine safety. The overseas training
period would last about two months for each person, part of which would be
spent in an institute of mine planning and design, and the rest in a coal
mine.



- 17 -
Project Execution
57.       The project would be implemented under the authority of STAMICO,
with guidance from MOM. While weak in many respects, STAMICO is the
appropriaLe institution for this purpose. Major emphasis would be given to
strengthening the agency through technical assistance and training
(paragraphs 55-56). Steps have already been taken to establish a project
implementation unit (PIU) within STAMICO which will report to the Director
of Mining Development. The PIU will be chaired by a senior administrator
and include a senior geologist, a senior coal mining engineer and a senior
financial manager. These staff will have qualifications satisfactory to
the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). Work in the
PIU would be part-time, allowing STAMICO to make use of some of its
existing staff without diverting them from their existing responsibilities.
Following the exploration work at Kabulo Ridge, a review would be made by
MOM and the Association to determine if additional staffing of the PIU was
required.
58.       Internationally recruited geology and mining consultants would be
retained to undertake the Kabulo Ridge component of the project and to
assist STAMICO staff with exploration and mine planning at Ilima. The
consultants would be responsible for training a number of local geologists
who would be associated with the project at the working level from its
inception. Since Tanzania has other potential coalfields, the acquisition
of appropriate managerial and technical skills in the coal sector is
considered essential.  The consultants would report directly to the PI-U who
would oversee their activities. The appointment of consultants on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement.)
59.       Mineral rights required for the execution of the project would be
issued to STAMICO by the Government in accordance with the Mining Act of
1979 (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Receipt of
evidence that such rights had been issued would be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
60.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$7.0 million
equivalent, of which US$5.9 million would be in foreign exchange. Detailed
cost estimates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary. Most of the
foreign exchange costs would be incurred on the Kabulo Ridge exploration
(US$4.4 million) and feasibility study (US$0.7 million); the remaining
costs would be accounted for by the Ilima exploration component (US$0.2
million) and technical assistance and training (US$0.6 million). The
average cost of the foreign consultancy services for exploration and
feasibility work at Kabulo Ridge, including travel, subsistence and other
reimbursable costs, is estimated at US$11,000 per man-month which is
considered reasonable. These cost estimates are based on December 1982
prices and include 10% for physical contingencies. Price contingencies are
based on assumed annual inflation rates of 14.0% for 1983, 13.0% for 1984,
12.0% for 1985 and 10.0% for 1986 for local costs, and 8.0% for 1983, 7.5%



- 18 -
for 1984 and 7.0% for 1985 and 6.0% for 1986 for foreign expenditures.
The project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties. A short
list of consultants to carry out the Kabulo Ridge component of the project
should be ready by June 1983. It is expected that proposals would be
invited in July 1983 and a contract awarded in November 1983.
61.       The proposed Credit of SDR 5.9 million (about $6.3 million
equivalent) would cover 90% of total project costs, including 100% of the
foreign exchange costs and 30% of local costs (US$300,000 equivalent). The
credit would be made to Government on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of
the credit would be passed on to STAMICO by Government as an equity
contribution. In the event that a mine development project were undertaken
with Bank Group financing, the engineering costs financed under
the credit would be capitalized and its proceeds refinanced. The balance
of project expenditures in local currency, estimated at US$0.7 million,
would be financed by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
62.       Consulting services for the exploration and mine feasibility
study would be obtained in accordance with the Association's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants. These specialized consulting services would cost
about US$2.1 million. The drilling activities (US$2.5 million) would be
sub-contracted by the consultant in accordance with international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures and subject to approval by STAMICO and
the Association. Procurement of equipment such as bulldozers, trucks and
jeeps would be by limited international tendering acceptable to the
Association. Individual packages would be limited to US$150,000 with an
aggregate ceiling of US$0.5 million. The Association would require prior
review of all ICB packages while the equipment procurement would be subject
to selective prior review of approximately 50% of the total value.
63.       The credit would be disbursed against:   (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 85% of local expenditures on equipment, vehicles and spare
parts; (b) 100% of total expenditures on drilling and exploration services;
and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 30% of local expenditures on
consultants' services and training.
Reports and Audits
64.       STAMICO would maintain separate project accounts which would be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Association.
STAMICO would also be required to submit to the Association audited annual
accounts for 1981 and 1982 and for subsequent years during the project,
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. STAMICO would
submit progress reports to the Association within 45 days of the end of
each quarter, and a final report for each phase of each component within
three months of the completion of that phase (Section 2.06 of the draft
Project Agreement.)
Environmental Issues
65.       The proposed project itself would not entail significant
environmental issues, as disturbances of the surface, such as drill sites



- 19 -
and test-pits, would be minor. The project, however, would include a
preliminary assessment of the environmental impact' of any eventual coal'
mining-project and attempt to minimize any adverse potential edffects.
Benefits and Risks
66.       The project would be an important step towards broadening the
energy supply base in Tanzania by increasing the supply of indigenous coal
and thus substituting for imported fuel.    In the short term, the project
would provide the basis for coal production from the ilima colliery of
10,000 tonnes in 1985, increasing to 40,000 tonnes in 1987. In view of the
anticipated demands for coal in Western Tanzania from the Mbeya cament
plant, and the local tea estates, this increased coal production wiould
provide savings in imported coal of approximately US$1.0 million in 1985
and US$3.2 million in 1987 when full production is achieved.    Following
development of lower cost coal at Kabulo Ridge, savings in foreign exchange
from import substitution would increase 'substantially even if international
fuel prices were to decline further from present levels. In the medium
term, if coal can be produced at.US$25 per tonne, which is a reasonable
expeL3LLion for the Kabulo Ridge project, it ccule be an economically
attractive basis for power development in Western Tanzania in the early
1990's.
67.       The project would provide important institutional benefits to MOM
and STAMICO through technical assistance in geology, mining and finance
that would strengthen the management of the respective institutions in
operations, reconnaissance and development of coal resources. Personnel of
MOM and STAMICO would benefit from the transfer of exploration and
engineering technology through on-the-job and more formal training to be
financed under the project.
68.       There is a risk that the proposed exploration activities
would not result in establishing economically and technically viable coal
deposits. However, the extent of geological work already conducted in the
area makes this risk accentably small. To further minimize the risk of
unproductive expenditures, the second and third phases of the major
exploration component of the project would only be undertaken following a
careful assessment of previous results and the market prospects for coal in
the light of other possible coal mine developments at the time.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the State Mining Corporation, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the credit are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.       It would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
that consultants, satisfactory to the Association, had been appointed to
undertp':e the major exploration and engineering activities at Kabulo Ridge,



- 20 -
and that STAMICO had been assigned the necessary mineral rights by the
Government to permit such work (Section 5.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). It would be a condition of disbursement in respect of
the second and third phases of the Kabulo Ridge component of the project
that the conclusions and recommendations of the preceding phase and the
work program for the subsequent phase had been accepted by the
Association (Schedule 1, paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c) of the draft Development
Credit Agreemuent).
7i.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recoimmend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 2, 1983
Washington, D.C.



AN N i IAX  I
-2z1  -                                    E1Pgc   I   fF  6
TABIE 3A
TANZ.ANIA -'!;CIAL. [I C.AT(Rh l)ATA SIIEFT
TA.NZANIA                      RF.FERF,NCE :ROUPS (WEIG;TED A.yLA(:IS
ARF.A (T i US AUNi S!L. KM.)                                                         - MnST RECFNT FSTIH TE-
IOTAL.                                                    P FOST RECENT         LOW INCUME             MlLF;L:
AL;RICULI'URAL   401.4                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH np SAHARA  AFRIC; Lol:l! J !o   SAHLARA
GNP PER CAPITA (IS5)                     70.0       130.0     2O.OD               250.8                 1053.2
ENERGY CONSUP0'TION PER CAI'ITA
(KILOCkA.MS OF COAL LQUIVALErT)       41.1        63.0      50.5                 66.5                  610.1
POPULATION AND VITA!. STATISIICS
PLOPULATION, HlO-YE.AR (l;USANDS)  10201.0     13300.0   18650.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)     4.8         6.9      11.8                 17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2(W0O (MILLIONS)                        36.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          110.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          10.8        14.1      19.1                 27.7                   54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        26.6        33.4      44.9                 86.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            42.7        44.4      46.0                 44b8                  .46.0
15-64 YRS.                            54.3        52.5      50.9                 52.3                   51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.0         3.1       3.0                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.2         2.7       3.4                  2.7                    2.8
URBAN,                                5.0         6.3       8.7                  6.2                    5.2
CP.'DE BIRT'I RATE (PER THOUS:,'!R'    /'.6        46.8      46A3                 47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        22.4        18.6      15.1                 19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0         3.1       3.2                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANh'lNG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL. (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..      93.
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)       ..          ..        ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF F OOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             95.0       104.0      89.0                 88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
R.QUIREKEN TS)                     90.0        91.0      86.5/d               90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             46.3        48.8      47.671               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE          17.8        21.2      20.5/df- 18.4                               17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        33.1        25.6      19.4                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.7        46.7      51.6                 45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             151.5       125.3     102.9                129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..        13.0      39.0/e               23.9
URBAN                                  ..        61.0      88.07;               54.9
RURAL                                  ..         9.0'     36.07e               18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..      17.0/e               25.8
URBAN                                  ..          ..      88.07Te              63.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..      14. 0o7              20.2
POPULATION FER PHYSICIAN            18216.1     22240.8   17553.1/d            32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       11886.9/f,   7162.1    2387.57U             3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               595-5/8     717.8     499.8/cr            1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                                55.37;      58.6      81.3/h              249.5                  430.8
RURAL                              1532.9.j        ..    119./d               1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                                    ..               ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                                  ..         4.41       .
URBAN                                 3.1/h       3.2/.1
RURAL                                   -         4.57i     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                 1.8/h        ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ElECIRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWEI.LINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URBAN,                                 ..          .
RURAL                                  ..          ..



ANNF'X I
- 22 -                                Page 2 of 6
TAix,E 3A
TANZA31r --SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA StlEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECRNT ESTIMATE )L-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOMI MI               E   COME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADMZED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYs     TOTAL                 25.0        39.0     104.0                  63.2                    83.3
MALE                  33.0        47.0     113.0                 72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                18.0        31.0      94.0                 50,3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         3.0       4.0                  10.2                    15.3
MALE                   2.0         4.0       5.0                 13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0       2.0                  6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 22.6            .,       1.6                   7.9                     4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.3        45.9      41.4                  47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          19.6        16.4      19.0                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.5.j      28.1/1    66.0/c                34.0                    35.6
CONSUXPTION
PASSENS-R CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.4         2.5       2.6/d                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0        11.3      27.7                 34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.3       0.3                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULA.ION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.5          ..      10.1                   2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   0.5          ..       0.2/d                 1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.7      5841.7    7660.5
FE.ALE (PERCENT)                   37.2        36.7      36-0                 34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTLURE (PERCENT)             89.0        86.0      83.0                  78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0         5.0       6.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                       -        46.4        43.9      41.1                  41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 59.1        56.3      53.1                  53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               34.0        31.8      29.2                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1       1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        24.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        50.4        ..                    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         5.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLL7E POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                      ,         ..          ..     147.0                 134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..          ..     109.0                  82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCO7a
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     125.0                  96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      74.0                  60.4                   203.6
ESTLMATED POPLULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ,,          ,,      10.0                  39.3
RUJRAL                               ..          ..      60.0                  69.0
Not available
Ndt applicable.
NOTES
La   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arlthmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Ib   Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Hlost Recent Eatimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; A    1962; /h 1958;
Ii 196-, /  for Mainland Tanzania only.
May, 1982



'.                    - 0  :.-  I-             - B      -t  B -
co        B. I   2BB       ~ BB
t . BB U8B BBa   t                      . B.5 ;
7B                          B B BBEB   B*
B.  B BBB B~  BB B BBBB BBB   BBB BBB B  B          B
B  -  B  B B   BB -   B BB BB -.BB BK  4 B-.
Z BBBB  BB B B B  B.  "  BBB  . B B.BBBBB  B  BBB BBBBBB B
0     BB        B  BB   BBBBBBBB  BBB   BB  B BBBB  BB B BB -BB
B  B BBB.B.  .B -  B BBB   B'-BB . B  B  B  BB BBB BBB   .BB  BBB.B  BBBB  B  BR
BBBBBBBB  B B BBBB  B>  B I   B B-  B
B  B BB B , BB  B  BB -B - BB BItBB B~  B
~B  BBBBBB  BBB  BBI
9B
. .B ..B..B.B ,.B       . B .B.BB . .         7B- B  B
'~~fl                          BBBBBB  It
BB B , B B B B 3   B B B  B B B  B B .- . .B .- . .
B  B  B  BB.B~BBBB  B  B   BBB Z,BB
BBBB.BBB B B  B  BBBBBBBBB                  -B
B  B BB B              B B B
B  BBBBBB  BBB  BB  BB BBBB
B                 .       BB B BTB
B  BB  BB B . BB  BB B.BBBBBBI-          B BB
BBBB~BB-BBE A
B  B BB  BB
B     B  BBBBB BBB     BBB
B B B BB B  B  B BB B B B  B  . BB B  B  B BB BB  B  B  B  BA
.--.  BB B.B.B. B   Z- . B BB BB.BB B. .B BB  B arB
B  BB   .BB  B B B  B B
BBB  BBBB  BBB-B BBBB
B                -K  EB  B
OBBB  B  B  B B
B  .BBBB  BB  . B BB B   B B BB    B B B
B B  BBBBBBB  BB  B  *B BBBBBB.  IB7
R B            V
B BB  BB BBBB B  B  B  B  B BB. - BB BB B  B  B  B  B BB.  B . BB B  B  B  BR



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
- 24 -
Pop.i I at ion  * 17 .5 mi InI n (mid- 1979)
G!tP Per Capita: USS270 (1979)
TANZANIA - ECONOMIC_INOICATOR Sb/
Amount
(million US$ at                                   At ntnal Growth Rates ()   -
Indicator             current prices)                     - Actual              a/                   Projected.  -
1979         1976     1977     1978     1979     1980-    19181    1982     1983     1984      985
!ATIONAL ACCOI'IrS
Gross domestic/productd/ e/       4,564.3         6.7      4.7      5.4      3.9     -1.5      3.7      3.6      3.6      3.6     . 3.6
Agriculture-/                    2,210.2         9.8      7.5      7.4     8.0     -6.1      4.2      3.6      3.6       3.6      3.6
Induitry                           549.0        0.9      3.1     -2.2      3.1        -      3.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Services                         1,374.8         3.4      5.5     6.5      3.4      4.0      3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4      1.;
Consumption                       4,115.8          1.6     12.3    14.6     -3.4      1.7      4.6      1.9      3.2      3.1      3.?
Gross investment                     958.6        11.5     2.1      3.8     10.9      -6.2      3.6     3.6      3.6      3.6       1.6
Exports of GNFS                      647.9        16.8    -22.8    -2.4     -2.8     -9.6      1.7      7.9      5.2      5.2      5. 3
imports of O,NFS                   1,158.0        O.5      4.4     34.9    -19.2      1.9     -2.9     -1.)      2.9      2.6      3.1)
Gross national sav ings             468.0        64.5     -6.8    -58.0     99.-4   -16.9     -23.9    19.0      8.8      9.7      8 .i
~~~~~-          -  .- ..- -- - -- - - - .- -- -- - -- -   - - -- -- -- -- -- ---------.------------------..
F? IC E S
GOP deflator (1978 = 100)                         77,2    92.4    100.)    108.5    124.8     140.4   154.4    168.3    181.8    194.5
Exchange rate (T.Sh. per USS)                      8.4     8.3      7.7      8.3      8.2      8.2      8.2      8.2      8.2      8.2
Share of GDP at Marker Priqes (e/)             Average Annual Increase (,,)
a  curr -It pri':e-,1            -      (at constant 1978 prices.
1970     1975     L980     1985     1990.    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    '93959(0
Gross domestic producte/                         100.0   10J.O    100.)    100.0    100.0       4.9        4.1        3.6        3.6
Agroculturee   o                                36.9     36.9     47.5    47.8     47.9        2.1       5.8        3.7        3.6
Industry                                        15.5     14.5    11.9     12.1     12.3       3.7        0.7        3.9        4.0
Services                                        37.2     37.8     31.1    30.8     30.6       6.6        4.6        3,4        3.4
Consumption                                      81.9     91.7     90.3     88.2     86.4       5.9        6.0        3.1        3.1
Gross investaent                                  22.5    2;.1     20.0     18.0     18.0       0.2        4.6        2.1        3.16
Exports SNES                                     -24.0   -18.2    -12.!    -13.9    -15,2      -5.3       -6.2        5.3        5.4
imports CNFS                                     28.4     31.0     22.5     20.2     19.7      -3.8        4.2        1.1        3.0
Gross national savings                           18.3      7.8      9.g     11.6     13.5      -2.4       -3.6        5.7        7.0
As % of GDP
PU3LIC FINAMM.                                             1970    1975    1979
Currea, C.Z-.Uo                                           17.5   20.2     13.5
Current expen-li-:jres                                    16.2.   20.2   23.9
Surplus (+) or Iefi.it -)                                1.i       -    -5.4
Capit3i expendticue.                                       8.3   11.6     12.7
Foreign financing                                         2.0     5.4     6.7
1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
OTHELR INDICATORS
GN? growth rate (7)                               4.7        4.2        3.6        3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                    1.3       0.8        0.2        0.2
ICOR                                             5.0        5.5        5.1        5.1
Marginal savings rate                            -0.1       -0.1       0.1        0.2
Import elasticity                               -0.8         1.0       0.3        0.8
e/ Estimate
b/ Apart from trade projections, which include small but offsetting amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data in this table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
e! Projected years at constant prices.
d' At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of not indirect taxes and subsidies.
e! Historical trend from 1973 to 1979 is based on official estimates, which include subsistence production growth rate of 8.6% per
Bonum. We estimate that a more realistic growth rate for subsistence production over this period would be-nearer 4% per annum,
reducing agricultural growth to 3.4% per annum and CDP growth to 3.6% per annum.



ANN EX I
Page 5 of 6
Population    : 17.5 million (mid.1979)                            25  -
GNP Per Capita: USS270 (1979)
TANZANLA - EXTERNAL TRADE-'
Amount                                         Annual Growth Rates (7)
Indicator          (million US$ at                                   (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                     Actujal                 8/                  Projected
1979          1976     1977     1978      1979     1980     1981     1982     1983     1984     1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandisc exports          543.6           7.8     -9.4      -6.5      6.1    -7.8      2.1      8.5      5.3       5.3      5.3
Major primary products     339.5           9.5     -20.1     -9.7     -0.1    -4.8      3.0      8.8      4.1       4.1      4.1
Others                     204.1            3.3    -18.1      2.7     21.5   -14.0        -      8.0       8.0      8.0      8.0
Merchandise imports        1,099.6          -16.4      7.7     36.8    -18.8     1.0     -3.4     -1.5       2.8      2.3      2.9
Foodgrains                  19.3         -65.2     23.3     -14.7    -42.4   334.0     -3.0    -47.5        -         -        -
Petroleum                  171.7          11.0    -11.5      12.8     -8.9     2.1     -7.9      5.0      3.1       3.3      3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0         -15.2      25.1     55.1    -10.0    -7.6     -5.4      2.9      2.9       2.9      2.9
Others                     393.6         -13.9       0.7     33.9    -28.9    -7.6      0.7      3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0
?PICES
Export price index                          77.4     106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8     136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                          81.1     89.5    100.0     118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    234.4     220.9
Terms oE trade index                        95.4     119.4    100.0     90.4    88.3     74.9     71.4     72.2      73.1     74.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (-/)             Average Annual Increase(Z)
(at current prices)                       (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975     1980     1985     1990      1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                    100.0     100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0      -4.5       -5.2        5.6         5.5
Major primary products                    59.2     66.3      69,,2    67.6     63,5      it.2       -6.9        5.0         4.1
Others                                    40.8      33.7     30.8     32.4     36.5     -12.9       -1.0        6.8         8.0
Imports                                    100.0    100.0    100.0     100.0    100.0       1.8        2.6        0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                 2.5     15.3       9.2     4.5       3.9      44.8       -5.8      -14.1           -
Petroleum                                  8.5     11.9      12.7     13.1     13.7       4.8          -        2.0         3.9
Machinery and equipment                   35.2      30.8    41.2      38.8     36.9       0.7       11.1        1.7         2.9
Others                                    53.8     42.0      36.9    43.6      45.5      -1.7       -3.3        2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with        Share of Trade with                Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)    Developing Countries (%)     Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (x)
1970    1975   .1978        1970    1975    1978              1970    1975    1978
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                   54.0    48.2     68.0        40.0    43.3    23.2              0.6      0.4     0.7
Imports                                   57.9    59.7    74.2         27.3    25.1    17.9              1.2     3.2     0.8
a/ Estimate
V/ Data are for all Tanzania (Ma3i-1and and Zanzibar)



~2 ~12    - T
.0                -  '.3. 0 .0   --
Z  co'*-3-33-..           , -
1K  ---
<P.4  3  -
4..3 'z 3-4  3  -.3                            . -U3N  a



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower         Purpose                  Bank'   TW     IDA'  Undisbursed
Eight loans, one Third Window loan, and twenty
credits fully disbursed,                              121.24  29.99   184.74
454-TA  1974  Tanzania   Cotton2                                       17,50     1.62
507-TA  1974 Tanzania    Highway Maintenance                           10.20     1.16
580-TA  1975  Tanzania   Dairy                                         10.00    4.25
1128-TA  1975 Tanzania    Mwanza Textile2                15.00                   0.53
601-TA  1976 Tanzania    Technical Assistance2                          6.00    0.80
606-TA  1976 Tanzania    National Maize Program2                       18.00     4.33
607-TA  1976 Tanzania    Fifth Education                               11.00    4.55
1307-TA  1976 Tanzania    Forestry2                       7.00                   0.74
652-TA  1976 Tanzania    Fisheries                                      9.00    5.36
658-TA  1976 Tanzania    Tobacco Processing2                            8.00    0.46
1354-TA  1977  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply             15.00                   0.29
1385T-TA  1977 Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex           11.50             1.12
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.50                   0.69
703-TA  1977  Tanzania   Rural Development (Tabora)                     7.20     3.95
732-TA  1977  Tanzania   Second Sites and Services                     12.00    5.24
743-TA  1977  Tanzania   Trucking                                       15.00    3.78
1498-TA  1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank       15.00                    1.47
801-TA  1978 Tanzania    Second Cashewnut                              27.50     6.72
802-TA  1978  Tanzania   Tobacco Handling                              14.00     9.74
803-TA  1978 Tanzania    Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                  12.00    5.33
1607-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile               25.00                  24.50
833-TA  1978 Tanzania    Morogoro Textile                              20.00     5.04
860-TA  1979 Tanzania    Tourism Rehabilitation                        14.00     9.69
861-TA  1979 Tanzania    Sixth Education                               12.00    10.32
875-TA  1979 Tanzania    Mufindi Pulp and Paper                        30.00     0.07
1650-TA  1979 Tanzania    Mufindi Pulp and Paper         30.00                  26.64
876-TA  1979 Tanzania    Fifth Highway                                 20.50    14.29
1745-TA  1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Dev. Fin. Co., Ltd. 11.00                   3.24
1750-TA  1979 TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank       25.00                   14.25
S-24-TA  1979 Tanzania    Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                  2.50    0.25
987-TA  1980 Tanzania    Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                      10.00     9.89
1007-TA  1980 Tanzania    Pyrethrum                                     10.00    7.15
1015-TA  1980 Tanzania    Grain Storage and Milling                     43.00   39.36
1037-TA  1980 Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                                14.00   12.58
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania   Seventh Education                             25.00   24.58
1060-TA  1981 Tanzania    Technical Assistance II3                       11.00   8.16
1070-TA  1981  Tanzania   Coconut Pilot3                                 6.60    4.96
1133-TA  1981  Tanzania   Export Rehabilitation Program3                47.10    5.82
1X73-TA  1982  Tanzania   Telecommunications I3                         25.30   25.30
i199-TA  1982 Tanzania    Songo-Songo Petroleum II3                     20.30    4.10
1206-TA  1982  Tanzania   Technical Assistance III3                      12.00   10.56
1229-TA  1982  Tanzania   Sao Hill Forestry-Phase II3                   12.00    12.00
1271-TA  1982  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply (Suppl.)3 4                 4.00    4.00
1312-TA  1983 Tanzania    Dar es Salaam Sewerage and                    22.50   22.50
Sanitation3 4
Total                                                    275.74  41.49  723.94
of which has been repaid                               29.94    -      10.70
Total now outstanding                                  245.80  41.49  713.24
Amount sold                               .09
of which has been repaid                .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA1                          245.80  41.49  713.24
Total undisbursed                                         72.35   1.12  287.91  361.38
1 Net of exchange adjustments.
2 Since these projects have recently been completed, loan/credit
accounts will soon be closed.
3 Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.
4 Not yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Loan                                           Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower      Purpose                 Bank1   Undisbursed
Seven loans fully disbursed                          135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC        Harbours                 35.00       0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC        Harbours                 26.50       0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC       Telecommunications       32.50       0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB        Development Finance      15.00       0.95
Total                                      244.80       2.10
of which has been repaid                  80.99
Total now outstanding                      163.81
Amount sold                  24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36            0.00
Total now held by Bank                     163.81
TQtp.l undisbursed                           2.10       2.10
lNet of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION1
(As of March 31, 1983)
There are currently 41 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was completed on schedule and credit account will be
closed.  Most of the civil works, including roads coonstruction have been
completed and.trial results have established an effective spray regime
although viable packages for fertilizer use have not been identified. The
project was involved in the villagization process, land use planning and
the establishment of block farming. Staff continuity and higher level
staff training have been good. However, most appraisal targets have not
been achieved.  Cotton production is now declining.   A Project Completion
Report is under preparation.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries'Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, .1981
The Project faced major implementation difficulties, including a
delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center, a major
shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and a
postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities. There were
problems affecting the quality of wooden boats constructed under the
project and delivered to the coastal center. After considerable discussion
of a possible extension of the project, project activities were terminated
on December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a th-ree-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign had little impact on the production of food
crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension and
1These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
prices also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of staff
houses and village stores was delayed due to shortage of building
materials. The December 1982 mission found no improvement in project
implementation and project activities were terminated on schedule.
Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
The project has begun to show overall improvement in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. However, implementation problems
remain, and the closing date has not been extended past March 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase I):
US$7.0 million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
G"tober 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This first phase project has been completed. While the Closing
Date was not formally postponed, disbursement of committed amounts
continued until September 30, 1982. Credit account will be closed.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Closing Date of this Credit was December 31, 1981. However,
the credit account was kept open to allow the project authorities to submit
belated withdrawal applications for two eligible expenditures - security
lighting and firefighting equipment. Credit account is now being closed.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credit2 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Overall project implementation has improved with the easing of
cement shortages and the improved arrangement for diesel fuel supply.
Specifically, the agriculture, land use, and roads components are making
satisfactory progress and the water resource development has improved.
With close supervision, disbursement of credit funds has also improved.
The Government has submitted proposals for restructuring and extending the
project beyond the current Closing Date. These proposals were reviewed
during a supervision mission in October 1982. However, the mission found
some deterioration in the key crop and livestock components of the project
and concluded that an extension would not be justified.   Project account
will be closed on schedule.
2Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Factory construction is satisfactory. However, the project is
seriously affected by technical, managerial, and financial problems.
Particularly, the inadequate supply of raw nuts is worrisome. In addition,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. The prospects
for operation of the new facilities at full capacitv are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handiing Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has faced major difficulties. Despite the low volume
of tobacco handled, TAT's administrative costs remain very high. Tobacco
losses during handling remain significant and TAT's ability to organize and
follow through on corrective measures has been limited. It has hence been
agreed that the project should be scaled down and terminated on schedule on
April 30, 1983.
Credit No. 803-TA - Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Although some infrastructure components are proceeding
satisfactorily, and housing and vehicles have been provided, the project's
agricultural components are not making significant progress. This is due
not only to problems of project implementation but also to general factors
affecting the entire agricultural sector such as the pricing of
agricultural produce and inputs, marketing problems, input supply
constraints, and deficiencies of agricultural services (e.g. research,
extension and credit). The Government has submitted proposals for project
redesign and a joint IDA/IFAD mission visited Tanzania in December 1982 to
discuss these proposals with the Government and project staff. The
redesign proposals were amplified during the mission, and it was agreed in
principle that the greatly reduced investment program should be
implemented.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
TRDB is facing growing financial and managerial problems, due in
part to the pervasive problems of the agricultural sector. TRDB is
preparing programs to deal with the issues.



-32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1985
The Tanganyika Pyrethrum Board's operating costs are proving much
higher than expected at appraisal and it may not be possible to reduce them
sufficiently in the course of the project to ensure economic production.
The closure of the extraction plant at Mafinga will result in important
transport savings for TPB; however, these will not be significant enough to
improve prospects for the crop. Urgent steps are to be taken to reduce the
operating costs of TPB and to improve the marketing of its products.
Expenditures for certain new investments (e.g. headquarters building for
TPB, staff housing and possibly some road improvement) are to be
eliminated.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The project started slowly due to delays in appointing the
General Manager and the Chief Engineer. Some start has been made in the
tea nursery and fuelwood planting. The Ukalawa factory site has been
selected but the construction of this facility may be delayed, pending a
significant increase in tea production.
Credit No. 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
Implementation of the project is progressing well, largely due to
the quality of staff in the field. However, the Mainland Govenment has
decided to allocate only TSh 3 million of the TSh 9.5 million in local
currency needed for the project in 1982/83. Management is hence attempting
to resolve this problem.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
US$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981; Closing Date - June 30, 1987           --
Because of the uncertainties regarding the organizational
structure and future responsibilities of the National Milling Corporation
(NMC), project implernentation has been substantially delayed. Detailed
proposals for the reorganization of cereals handling and distribution are
still being discussed in Tanzania. The Bank will now suggest that
Government provide adequate re-design proposals which will then be
appraised.
Credit No. 1229-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase II):
US$12,0 million Credit of May 19, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
March 16, 1983; Closing Date - December 31, 1987
This credit, which is a follow-up to the first phase project,
became effective on March 16, 1983. The afforestation program consisting



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
of planting, replanting, weeding, pruning and fire break maintenance are
being implemented well; however, the ancilliary and support services are
experiencing srme difficulties.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Overall project comption has reached 65% and about $6.3 million
have been disbrused. However, because of the domestic financial
constraints, the shortage of building materials and the dispersed locations
of the village staff housing program, it will not be possible to complete
the project as planned. The Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12e0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Civil works are underway at two vocational training centers and
three technical secondary schools and are due to start on the Dar es Salaam
School of Accountancy. Implementation is slow with resultant cost
increases. However, all components (with the possible exception of the
postponed MANTEP - management training for education personnel) are
expected to be completed by project closing date.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Education Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to (i) staff constraints
in the Project Implementation Section; (ii) delay in Government decision on
location and staffing of the Coordinating Unit for Research and Education;
(iii) delay in staffing and equipping of the National Examination Council
and of the Tanzania Elimu Supplies; and (iv) shortages of materials.
However, in Zanzibar, work on the new Teacher Training College is ahead of
schedule, staff houses are now available at the Nkrumah Training College
and preliminary surveys of sites have been made.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation generally is progressing much slower than
anticipated at the time of appraisal mainly due to delays in execution of
building works for hotel rehabilitation. All posts for technical
assistance staff have been filled. The construction site identified for the
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because
of size and shape, thereby delaying implementation of this component. An
alternative site has been located and preparation of preliminary design is



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 16
about to start. Improvements to the airport terminal were dropped because
the Government was able to secure bilateral financing for a new passenger
terminal building. Vehicles for anti-poaching activities have been
received and allocated to TANAPA and the Ngorongoro Conservation
Authority. The Closing Date will need to be postponed if IDA involvement
is to continue.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No, 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
adequate time for completion of the project. However, withdrawal
applications will be accepted up to June 30, 1983 to allow an orderly
termination of project activities.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, improvement has been
recorded recently with the delivery of all original estimates of trucks and
the Government's contribution to the National Trucking Company for equity
in the transport companies has been increased. Technical assistance has
been extended since 1978; currentlv about 15 experts are assisting in the
project implementation. All five regional trucking companies were created
in early 1981 and a Board of Directors was appointed, with adequate
management staff to support it, They are all operational and have recorded
profits between 12-25% for the first half of the current financial year.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date   December 31, 1984
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. All three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post. However, technical assistance for the Morogoro
Training School has yet to be recruited and an action program for
recruitment and training of staff has yet to be prepared. All 120 students
are receiving training in various engineering colleges overseas and are
making good progress.  Contracts for the supply of road maintenance
equipment have recently been awarded and some of the equipment have been
delivered.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Credit No. 1173-TA - Telecommunications I Project; US$27.0
million Credit of March 4, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
November 1, 1982; Closing Date - June 30, 1986
This credit became effective on November 1, 1982. Physical
implementation of the project is well underway. TPTC's financial position
is also considered acceptable.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problfem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which re-
quires that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same 'time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs. T-he original Closing Date of
September 30, 1981 was postponed a second time in order to complete project
work.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
The project was reshaped in 1981 to accelerate progress, to trim
the scope, complexity and cost to a more achievable level commensurate with
emerging experience of actual implementing capacity and to recognize newly
recreated city councils, which did not exist at the time of project
appraisal. Some problems are still being experienced due to shortages of
trained and experienced management and manpower and equipment and spares,
but overall progress is satisfactory. All civil works contracts have been
let and 83% of the work has been completed. Special units have been
recently established to address the continuing problem of consolidation
under the first project and to initiate cost recovery. Progress is evident
on both fronts. Collections are now underway in all Urban I sites and are
starting up in Urban II sites as works are completed.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
The Borrower's performance under the project has generally been
good. Water treatment and distribution facilities have been largely



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 16
completed. Establishment of a National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) which
is to own and operate major urban water supply systems in the country, was
approved by the Parliament in April 1981. Implementation of the project
has, however, been dominated by the poor performance of the main civil
works contractor for the Mindu dam. After being given several
opportunities to improve his performance, the contractor was dismissed in
August 1981 and'a new contract was awarded to the second lowest evaluated
bidder at the time of the original contract award in December 1978. In
view of the major delays and problems which have affected the completion of
the dam, the project's foreign exchange cost increased by about US$11.0
million over the appraisal estimate. Completion of the project is being
financed by a supplementary credit from IDA (US$4 million) and a grant from
CIDA (US$3.2 million). US$3.8 million is being provided from Ln. 1354-TA
by diverting funds intended for other project components,
Credit No. 1271-TA - Urban Water Supply Project
(Supplementary): US$4.0 million Credit of December 9, 1982;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984         --                -
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1312-TA - Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Project: US$22.5 million Credit of December 21, 1982; Closing
Date - December 31, 1987
This credit is not y. effective.
ENERGY SECTOR
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical difficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control. Drilling of the offshore well has been completed. The credit has
been fully disbursed and credit account will be closed.
Credit 1199-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum II: US$20.0 million
Credit of January 13, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
February 23, 1982; Closing Date - December 31, 1983.
This credit became effective on February 23, 1982. Drilling and
testing of the second well, Well SS-8, is now virtually completed. The
Association and the OPEC Fund have agreed to finance a third well for
purposes of confirming the extent of the natural gas reservoir at Songo
Songo.



37 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA3 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
In the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the
severe foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy
to focus in the near-term on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve
capacity utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the requirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre
allocation of foreign exchange.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all
technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills. The project was technically
completed in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order
to utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by six months to
December 31, 1981. The remaining balance under the loan was cancelled on
February 1, 1982.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
3In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



- 38 -
ANNEX II -
Page12 of 16
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and
related techniques. The credit is fully committed and virtually completely
disbursed. The credit account will soon be closed and the remaining small
undisbursed balance will be cancelled.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of
procurement. Because of some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, the project was not completed in July
1982 as scheduled. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher
than those contained in the Appraisal Report. The most recent supervision
mission for this project recommended that the Closing Date be postponed to
June 30, 1984 to permit construction and equipping of an effluent treatment
plant to serve the Morogoro Industrial Estate as well as the Morogoro
Textile Mill which is being constructed.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closinig Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with the awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project completion.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
Overall project implementation, including arrangements for
project management, has improved.    Project completion is now expected by
mid-1984. Project cost has been significantly reduced with savings in
civil works, equipment and particularly in erection. The rebidding of the
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation installation contract (MEI) has
resulted in savings of about US$9 million. However, supplementary foreign
funds will be required to finance the conversion of the mill's boilers to
burn wood fuel as well as coal and oil, to provide additional start-up
technical assistance, and to provide sufficient fuel, materials and other
supplies for the first three years of mill operation.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983
The loan is fully committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, there has been a deterioration in the quality of
TDFL's portfolio because of the foreign exchange constraints. An



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
increasing number of TDFL assisted enterprises which mainly depend on
imported input are operating at less than break-even capacity. As a
result, arrears in the loan portfolio have increased in the past year.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
As of March 31, 1983, 24% of consultants' services allocation has
been committed for 9 projects. Commitments and disbursements under the
training component are proceeding satisfactorily. The Technical Assistance
Unit is functioning efficiently. Some of the previous problems of delayed
submission of subprojects on training have been overcome.
Credit No. 1206-TA - Third Technical Assistance Project: US$12.0
million equivalent Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date -
June230, 1987
-This credit became'effective on April 1, 1982. The
FAO/Government contract for,the supply of the major portion of consulting
services was signed in January 1983 and the Technical Assistance Advisory
Committee was established in March 1983. However recruitment of experts is
still at an early stage.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1983 --
Performance in achieving the stated agricultural objectives of
the project has been generally disappointing. In other policy areas,
recent Government actions show some improvements. Important steps remain
to be taken on pricing, decentralization of internal distribution and
ensuring greater accountability in public sector organization.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East
African Community.4
4Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port'of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, constrxuction of a tug berth, cold
storage facilities and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979. Because of shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing: the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity has improved with
increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughout has declined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Author-
ity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is competent.
Since work under the projects has been compledted, the remaining balance of
US$516,897.23 under Loan 638-EA and US$349,884.28 under Loan 865-EA were
cancelled on November 10, 1982. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
of October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                     0.7
Tanzania                                 0.6
Total                                  1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                     1.7
Tanzania                                  0.3
Total                                  2.0



- 41 -
NI.EX II
Page 15 of 16
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
'The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items have been completed; the undisbursed
balance of US$284,975.20 under the loan will soon be cancelled and the loan
account closed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October
1, 1977 among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5
Uganda                   0.1
Total                  6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$13.65 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Fiscal                                               Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor           Type of Business      Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar     Food Processing          3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture         1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products      Household Utensils       1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments               6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                4.17   0.69    4.86
Total commitments now held by IFC     2.50   0.55    3.05
Total undisbursed                    0.06      -    0.06



- 43 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
COAL ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to the Association           September 1981
(b)  F'irst Association mission to review project        September 1981
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission                      December   1982
(d)  Completion of negotiations                          April      1983
(e)  Planned Date of effectiveness                       July       1983
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Government would consult with the Association on the appropriate
sequence of future investments in the coal sector, based on the
project's results and an economic assessment of various coal
exploitation alternatives (paragraph 42).
(b) The second and third phases of the work at Kabulo Ridge would be
undertaken only after a positive assessment of the results of the
preceding phase (paragraph 53).
(c) The appointment of consultants to carry out the coal exploration work
and feasibility study at Kabulo Ridge, would be a condition of
effectiveness (paragraph 58).



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
TANZANIA - Coal Engineering Project
Supplementary Information on the Energy and Coal Sectors
Resources Available
1.        Tanzania's estimated coal reserves are as follows:
Coal Resources
(million tonnes)
Indicated
and
Measured    Inferred     Total
1. Ketewaka - Mchuchuma       187          495       682
2.  Songwe - Kiwira            20          596       616
3.  Galula                     -            53         53
4.  Ngaka                      -           126        126
5.  Liweta                     -            34         34
6.  Njuga                      98          152        250
7.  Mbamba Bay                 -            29         29
8.  Mhukuru                    -            19         19
9.  Lumecha                    -            -         -
10.  Ufipa                      -            57        57
11.  Kasulu                     -            -         -
Total                  305        1,561     1,866
Source: Report by Coal Development Committee, MWE, August 1978.
No rigorous assessment of the various criteria used to calculate and
categorize these reserves has been undertaken. The reserve figures should
be regarded as indicators of orders of magnitude.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
Demartd
2.        The most recent estimates of Tanzania's coal requirements are as
follows:
a) 1985: Industrial demand is expected to be 42,G0O
tonnes made up as follows:
(i)  Tea drying/Brick burning           7,000
(ii)  Mbeya cement                     30,000
(iii)  Household/Miscellaneous           5,000
42,000
b)  199Q: Industrial demand is expected to rise to
52,000 tonnes per year:
(i)  Tea drying/Brick burning           7,000
(ii)  Mbeya cement                     40,000
(iii)  Household/Miscellaneous           5,000
52,000
c)  1991/92: In addition to the industrial markets
described above, TANESCO is considering the
installation of a coal-fired mine mouth power
plant in the Songwe-Kiwira area for the years
1991/92. Recent analysis suggests that this could
be the least cost option for TANESCO following
the completion of the presently proposed
Mtera hydroelectric project for meeting future
power demand in Western Tanzania. In the coal-fired
thermal plant, 350,000 tpy of coal would be required.
Energy Pricing
3.        The following table shows the 1981 average energy prices in use
at Dar es Salaam.
Retail            Retail     US$ per
(including        (including   Million
taxes)     Tax    taxes)      Kcal
---   TSh------- ----------US$------
Firewood a/(ton'ne)                           150      -        18        12
Coal (tonne)                                  480      -        57        10
Electricity (MWh)                             650      -        77        90
Liquid petroleum gas (cu ft)                5,265     360      627        60
Motor fuel (premium)(thousand liters)       9,350   1,432    1,113       107
Motor fuel (regular)                        7,250   1,432      863        82
Kerosene (regular)                          3,350     184     399         38
Industrial diesel                           2,405      -      286         27
Gas oil                                     3,900     694     464         44
Fuel oil                                    2,134      -      254         24
Jet oil                                     3,849     160     458         44
a/ Firewood is practically "free" in rural areas.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
State Mining Corporation
4.        Structure.   The State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) consists of
four departments, including Mining Development, Marketing and Operation,
Finance and Manpower Administration. The Mining Development Department
oversees all STAMICO's subsidiaries and projects, and coordinates
procurement for the subsidiaries and projects, making use of the Supplies
Division. The Mining Development Department also handles consulting
services for subsidiaries and projects. A Tender Committee composed of the
General Manager, Corporation Secretary and Department Directors is
responsible for evaluation of bids and proposals. Purchases for
headquarter operations are handled directly by the Supplies Division,
subject to General Manager and Financial Director approval for purchases
over about US$200 (T.Sh. 2,000). Civil works contracts for headquarters
are coordinated by the Manpower Development Division. The procurement and
consulting arrangements appear reasonable and MOM and STAMICO management
consider them to be working effectively.
5.         Staffing.  There are about 500 persons in STAMICO of which about
250 are at headquarters in Dar es Salaam, 170 are at the proj,ect
exploration unit and laboratory station at Dodoma and 80 are at project
sites. Of the total employed, there are twenty four geologists, seven
mining engineers, two chemical engineers, one mineral dressing analyst,
three electrical engineers and four civil engineers. There is one senior
accountant and three supporting accountants. The technical staff of the
corporation lacks experience in mining and there are many vacancies in
required positions in exploration, engineering and design, project
development and management and corporate and project accounting.
6.        Subsidiaries and Other Investments.   STAMICO's subsidiaries and
projects are as follows:
Tanzania: STAMICO Investments and Project, 1982
A.  Subsidiaries                                                    % STAMICO
Ownership
1.  Williamson Diamond Co.                                           51
2.  Tanzania Diamond Cutting Co. Ltd.                               100
3.  Tanzania Meerschaum Corporation                                 100
4.  Nyaza Salt Mines Ltd.                                           100
5.  Tanzania Gemstone Industries Ltd.                               100
6.  Minjingu Phosphates Co.                                         100
B.  Projects Under Implementation
1. Buckreef Gold Mine
2. Kahema Gold Mine
3. Coastal Salt Manufacturers



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 4
C. Projects Under Study
1. Songwe/Kiwira Coal Mines
2. Ilima Colliery Expansion
3. Lake Natron Soda Ash Manufacture
4. Pugu Kaolin Mine Expansion
5. Bulyenkulu Gold Mine
7.        STAMICO's most important equity participation (US$6.8 million in
1980) is in Williamson Diamonds, which is jointly held with Willcraft
Company Ltd. (a subsidiary of Anglo-American). The remaining subsidiaries
are quite small (ranging in share value from US$0.1 - 0.J million in
1980). The Williamson Diamonds Ltd. is relatively well managed, both
technically and financially. The company has been unprofitable since 1981,
however, due to the depressed market for diamonds,as well as rising
operating costs and shortages of fuel and spare parts.
8.        STAMICO performs management services and trading activities for
its subsidiaries for which it is compensated. The charge for management
services (0.5% on turnover plus a fixed charge of US$2,000 p.a. from
Williamson Diamonds and 3.0% on turnover plus 10% on net profit from the
remaining subsidiaries) has been regarded by subsidiaries as high relative
to the management and technical services provided. About double the income
from management fees (US$0.6 million in 1980) comes from trading
activities, where STAMICO profits from imports (largely of salt in 1980) as
well as exports (diamonds). STAMICO makes loans to its subsidiaries to
support operations if necessary at less than commercial rates. Its most
recent loan to the Meerschaum Corporation (manufacturing clay pipes)
carries no interest. The loans, however, are too small to have any
significant impact on STAMICO's financial condition.
Fihancial Operations
9.        STAMICO has traditionally relied on Government budgetary support
for operations and project investments, and income from trading activities
and management fees for services to its subsidiaries. As a matter of
budgetary practice, STAMICO makes its budgetary request through MOM to the
Ministry of Finance which coordinates and determines budgetary
allocations. The Ministry of Finance disburses into a commercial bank
account against these allocations on a quarterly basis and replenishes the
account only when STAMICO presents its statement of expenditures for the
last quarter and its expected next quarter disbursements. STAMICO must
apply directly to the Bank of Tanzania for an annual foreign exchange
allocation and subsequent import licenses for foreign exchange purchases.
Since 1979, STAMICO has received no budget support for its recurring
expenses although it continues to receive support for project investments
from the Government. In 1980, STAMICO made a net loss of US$0.6 million.
It made up its cash operating deficit (US$0.2 million) from Government
project investment allocations. The company's total assets in 1980 were
US$ 27.8 million. Its share capital is US$7.8 million and it has received
cumulatively through 1980 development grants totalling US$20.8 million
(US$18.7 million from the Government, US$0.3 million from the People's
Republic of China and US$1.8 million from Sweden).



