Report No. PID11458
Project Name                     RWANDA-Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Other social services (100%)
Project ID                       P071374
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
Implementing Agency
Address HIV/AIDS NATIONAL COMMISSION (CNLS)
Commission Nationale de Lutte contre le SIDA
Address:
Boulevard Umuganda
Commune Kacyiru
Kigali
Rwanda
Contact Person: Dr. Agnes Binagwaho
Tel: 250-582018
Fax: 250-5833543
Email: cnls@rwandal.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 13, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 28, 2003
Bank Approval Date               March 31, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Epidemiological Situation
Rwanda is among the ten most heavily affected African countries by the
HIV/AIDS epidemic. With an overall HIV prevalence rate of about 11 to 13
percent, AIDS has emerged as the most important public health issue. Data
from the late 1990s indicate that up to 30 percent of pregnant women in
antenatal clinics in Kigali and 15 percent in rural areas tested
positive. HIV prevalence rates among male STD clinic attendees were as
high as 55 percent in various surveys. The major causes of the epidemic
are the high rates of multiple sex partners, early onset of sexual
activity, and the overall crisis of the 1990s. With a staggering
one-third of households in Rwanda headed by females, the epidemic is
exerting a disproportionate impact on women who are economically, socially
and sexually vulnerability. Young people (i.e. under 20 years of age),
who comprise 60 percent of the population, are also highly vulnerable with
prevalence rates estimated at 10 percent in 1997. The youngest age group
(12-14 years) was found to have a prevalence rate of about 4 percent,
indicating a high proportion of new infections. As elsewhere in
sub-Saharan Africa, adolescent women are more likely to be infected than
their male counterparts. Roughly 500,000 Rwandans are estimated to live
with HIV, of which roughly half are believed to have developed AIDS. Of
those who are infected, roughly 50 percent are women and about 13 percent
are children under fifteen.



The political and social turmoil of the mid 1990s has altered and
exacerbated the course of the epidemic and narrowed the gaps between rural
and urban infection rates. HIV prevalence rates in rural areas rose
rapidly from 1.3 percent in the mid 1980s to nearly 11 percent by the late
1990s, as the genocide triggered massive population movements, resulted in
the rape of thousands of young women, and fostered high-risk sexual
behavior in refugee camps. The increase in vulnerability and poverty
(i.e. 65 percent of households are estimated to be below the poverty line
in comparison to 40 percent in 1985) has provided fertile grounds for the
HIV/AIDS epidemic as individuals may be adopting more fatalistic behavior
with regard to contracting a disease that takes years to develop. The
disease has seriously eroded past gains in life expectancy (i.e. from 54
in 1991 to 42 years at present). By 2005, it is estimated that the crude
death rate will be 40 percent higher due to AIDS than it was in 1990.
Information from the recently conducted Behavioral Surveillance Survey
revealed generally high knowledge levels of HIV/AIDS but only sporadic use
of condoms in spite of high levels of sexual activity among the target
groups surveyed (i.e. commercial sex workers, transport sector employees,
young people, military). Nearly 80 percent of commercial sex workers were
able to correctly identify two means of preventing HIV transmission but
only 17 percent reported using condoms with all clients. A similar
pattern was found among transport sector workers with reported knowledge
levels over 92 percent but with only occasional use of condoms. Condom
use was found to be particularly low among young people, with only 10
percent reporting ever using a condom. The mean age of first sexual
intercourse was found to be relatively low (i.e. 13 for boys and 14 years
for girls), underscoring the importance of reaching young people at an
early age. Over half of sexually active girls reported having an older
partner, highlighting the economic vulnerability of young women. The 1998
Rwanda Sexual Behavior and Condom Use Study confirmed similar patterns of
condom use and found continued stigma surrounding condom use, particularly
by women.
According to UNICEF, there are now an estimated 1 million orphans in
Rwanda. Although the major cause of orphanhood was initially the 1994
genocide, AIDS has also made a substantial impact in recent years. By the
end of 1997, a cumulative total of 94,000 children were thought to have
lost either their mother or both parents to AIDS. Given the high HIV
infection rates and relatively high fertility levels, it is estimated
that 5,500-7,000 children are born to HIV infected women annually.
HIV/AIDS is placing a heavy burden on an already weak health care system.
In 1997, 21 percent of all pediatric patients and 60 percent of those
presenting with malnutrition problems in the Kigali Central Hospital were
HIV-positive. The total number of hospital beds occupied by those living
with HIV/AIDS rose from 9,000 in 1993 to 35,600 in 1997.
Government Response
Since the emergence of the first AIDS cases in the mid 1980s, the
government of Rwanda has been proactive in implementing a series of
national plans, demonstrating strong commitment and leadership in the
fight against the epidemic. Each medium-term plan has been characterized
by an intensification of the scope and range of interventions.     The First
- 2 -



Medium Term HIV/AIDS/STI Plan (1988-92) carried out by the Rwandan
National AIDS Control Program (PNLS), focused on blood transfusion
safety, health education and epidemiological surveillance. The Second
Medium Term Plan (1993-97) continued with preventive activities while
giving an increased focus to minimizing the socioeconomic impact of AIDS.
In 1997, the government adopted a multi-sectoral, decentralized approach,
giving increased responsibility to health districts. The Third Medium
Term HIV/AIDS Plan (1998-2001) was more ambitious in scope and was
developed in a participatory manner.
The recently released 2002-2006 Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS constitutes a
sound basis for IDA support under the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP)
for Africa, focusing on prevention, care & treatment, and mitigation. It
was prepared in a participatory fashion with country-wide consultations
involving a broad spectrum of Rwandan society (e.g. public officials, and
representatives of NGOs, PLWHA, church groups, youth clubs, women's
organizations and private sector groups). The specific strategies are as
follows: (i) strengthening preventive measures by promoting multi-sectoral
IEC activities, expanding availability of VCT services, promoting condom
utilization, reinforcing STI management, ensuring security of blood
transfusion, and preventing MTCT; (ii) expanding care & treatment by
providing psycho-social and medical support to affected individuals and
families;and (iii) carrying out supportive activities, including research,
training and capacity building, and enhanced coordination. The total cost
of the five-year program is tentatively estimated at US$68.6 million.
The inclusion of Rwanda in the first round of grants from the Global
Fund for AIDS, TB, and Malaria (GFATM) augurs well for the national
program and reflects the strong collaboration amongst key stakeholders in
the fight against the epidemic. Rwanda has been awarded about US$14
million to establish a national network of voluntary counseling and
testing (VCT) centers which will provide an integrated package of care.
VCT is viewed as a key ingredient for bringing about behavior change and
as a key entry point for care and support of the infected. The goal is to
set up 3 VCT centers in each district for a total of roughly 117 sites,
from the current number of about 30. While these plans are extremely
ambitious, the model represents a promising way to build synergies between
prevention, and care and treatment.
While significant progress has been made, serious shortcomings persist.
Even though knowledge levels are generally high, there is a large gap
between knowledge and behavioral change with condom utilization rates
remaining relatively low. General weaknesses in the health system have
resulted in limited progress in strengthening treatment of STIs and
opportunistic infections. National capacities remain extremely limited,
particularly among civil society groups and associations of PLWHA.
Moreover, financial barriers to accessing health services remains a key
concern, particularly for the most vulnerable groups. Finally, there are
also huge challenges related to de-stigmatizing the illness, improving
acceptance of PLWHA, and tackling gender issues which are at the roots of
the epidemic and have been exacerbated by the trauma and internal
disruption of the genocide.
Eligibility for MAP
-3-



The Government has requested IDA resources within the framework of the
second phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa
Region presented to the Board of Directors on December 20, 2001. Rwanda
is eligible for MAP funding on a grant basis and has satisfied the MAP
eligibility criteria, as follows:
Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIV/AIDS Rwanda has
produced a comprehensive, multi-sectoral HIV/AIDS strategic plan in a
participatory manner.
Establishment of high-level HIV/AIDS coordinating body In March 2001, a
National HIV/AIDS Commission (CNLS) was created under the Presidency of
the Republic, providing greater visibility to the program. The
coordinating body includes representatives of both government agencies and
civil society organizations and is responsible for: (i) elaborating
policies and strategies; (ii) coordinating multi-sectoral activities; and
(iii) mobilizing internal and external resources.
Agreement to use appropriate implementation arrangements The Government
has established a Secretariat to coordinate implementation of the HIV/AIDS
program under the CNLS and is in the process of establishing a project
management unit dedicated to the MAP within the Secretariat. The
government has agreed to outsource some activities, such as behavioral
surveys and operational research but favors retaining the procurement and
financial management functions within the project coordinating unit. The
Bank has agreed to these interim arrangements that would be evaluated at
the end of the first 18 months to determine their effectiveness.
Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies The
Government has agreed to fund activities undertaken by both public and
private sector groups (e.g. civil society associations, religious groups,
private firms). Resources will be transfered to these groups on a grant
basis, building on the relatively successful experience under three
ongoing rural development projects supported by the Bank.
2. Objectives
The proposed project is part of the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for
the Africa Region. In accordance with the main goal of the MAP, the
objectives of this operation are to: (i) strengthen prevention measures in
order to slow down the spread of HIV/AIDS and (ii) expand support and care
for those infected or affected by HIV/AIDS. These objectives will be
attained through the use of a multi-sectoral approach, supporting
activities undertaken by public and private organizations and by the civil
society. The goal is to scale up responses to the epidemic by supporting
promising approaches. The project will support the implementation of
Rwanda's 2002-2006 Strategic HIV/AIDS Plan which has broad based support
within the country.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has provided leadership in the donor community by assisting
Rwanda rebuild its economy and society following the 1994 genocide. The
modest progress attained in recent years is not sustainable, however, if
strong efforts are not made to mount an effective national response.
- 4 -



Rwanda's participation in MAP II will bring the financial support needed
to broaden multi-sectoral activities and to scale up promising
approaches. It will complement activities supported by other donors and
by the Global Fund. The country will become part of the MAP network of
countries which exchange experiences on a regular basis and have access to
cutting edge knowledge. Rwanda's participation in MAP II signals the
Bank's long-term commitment to providing financial and technical support
to tackle the epidemic.
4. Description
The project includes four components:
Public Sector Support: The first component will finance annual work plans
of line ministries and other public agencies. All work plans will give
special attention to capacity building activities. Plans will also
include performance indicators to assist in monitoring results.      Line
ministries (e.g. Education, Social Affairs) are expected to focus on
behavioral change of their constituencies, providing testing and care for
their employees (e.g. Defense), and/or supporting affected groups,
particularly orphans (e.g. Social Affairs). The project will also support
annual work plans to be carried out by GLIA, a agency set up to address
HIV/AIDS regional issues.
Health Sector HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment The Ministry of Health work
plan will focus on: (a) diagnosis, care and treatment of HIV/AIDS
patients; (b) prevention of mother-to-child transmission; (c) HIV
voluntary testing and counseling services through the provision of
complementary support to that provided by the Global Fund; (d) technical
capacity of laboratories and blood banks; (e) sentinel surveillance and
operational research; and (f) handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected
materials. The government plans to procure drugs through the national
drug procurement and distribution agency (CAMERWA), which has a good track
record in providing high quality products at competitive prices.
Civil Society Support: The civil society component will support HIV/AIDS
work plans of community groups, youth clubs, women's groups, associations
of People Living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), religious groups and private enterprises. Annual work plans will
include: information/education/communications (IEC) activities, support
and care, and capacity building activities aimed at strengthening
institutional capacities.
Management, Monitoring & Evaluation: The project
management/monitoring/evaluation component will provide financial and
technical support for the executive secretariat of the national HIV/AIDS
commission (CNLS). This component will also provide support for the
Project Management Unit to be established within the CNLS. One of the
major areas of emphasis will be on supporting the monitoring and
evaluation unit of the CNLS.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.50
IBRD
-5-



IDA
IDA GRANT FOR HIV/AIDS $30.50
Total Project Cost $32.00
6. Implementation
The National AIDS Commission (CNLS) will have the overall coordinating
responsibility for the project. A Project Management Unit (PMU), to be
established within the Executive Secretariat of the CNLS, will have be
responsible for the management of the project. The PMU will include a
project manager, procurement specialist, financial management specialist
and three program officers (i.e. public sector, private sector,
coordination and monitoring and evaluation). Staff is being hired through
a competitive process. The Ministry of Health, through the State Minister
in charge of HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases, will hold the
'tutelle', which means that it will represent the project's interests at
the highest level of government. A steering committe will be established
to provide oversight, guidance and advice on project activities. The
specific lines of responsibilities and accountabilities of these key
stakeholders and the relationships between them are spelled out in an
operational manual.
The project will finance HIV/AIDS action plans presented by line
ministries and civil society organizations. The procedures for
preparation, evaluation, and supervision of action plans are detailed in
the operational manual. The manual also includes procedures for
procurement, financial management and monitoring and evaluation. The
manual was adopted by negotiations of this grant.
7. Sustainability
The project is likely to be sustained to the extent that there is strong
ownership, participation and commitment; a major effort is being made to
strengthen implementation capacities at all levels; and the government
plans to decentralize the program to regional and local authorities.
Capacity building interventions are built into all components, with a
focus on designing solid action plans, incorporating performance measures
to monitor results, and developing mechanisms for supervision and
follow-up.  While the decentralization process is somewhat slow, these
efforts will bear fruit as local authorities are empowered to assume
greater responsibility in the fight against HIV/AIDS and are made
accountable for the results attained. Working towards a common goal
should also strengthen the broader reconciliation effort in Rwanda and
ultimately enhance sustainability. Against these sustainability-enhancing
measures there are lingering concerns with the financial sustainability of
the national program, particularly in light of growing pressures to
increase access to ARV therapy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Rwanda has incorporated into the proposed project design many of the
lessons derived from the global response to AIDS, as well as from the
experience with the MAP and with other national projects:
Demonstrating staunch commitment at the highest level of the government
- 6 -



and civil society, with the President of the Republic providing strong
leadership.
Building partnerships with the private sector and civil society, including
non-governmental organizations and community associations which have
proven to be essential players in successful programs worldwide and in
Rwanda.
Adopting a decentralized and participatory approach that mobilizes a broad
spectrum of society, including communities, local leaders, and people
living with HIV/AIDS.
Adopting multi-sectoral responses and involving all public sector
institutions (e.g. defense, education).
Promoting a comprehensive approach that includes the full range of
interventions (e.g. behavior change, STI control, condom distribution,
community based care and support, and advocacy) through the adoption of a
unique integrated VCT model that is being replicated nationally.
Experience from recent Bank-financed projects in Rwanda, particularly in
the post-genocide environment has highlighted other important lessons: (i)
giving particular attention to financial management arrangements; (ii)
providing staff training in Bank procedures from the outset of project
preparation; (iii) adopting participatory approaches that are broadly
inclusive and building partnerships between local groups and communal
authorities.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
The project is not expected to have any major adverse environmental
effects. The handling and disposal of HIV/AIDS infected materials is the
most significant environmental issue. These risks potentially affect the
following stakeholders: (i) health and paramedical personnel who run the
risk of exposure (e.g. blood contamination; infections; intoxications);
(ii) support staff who handle waste disposal; many of these individuals
who are responsible for collecting and disposing of waste management work
in sub-optimal hygienic conditions which does not protect them adequately
from the risks of exposure to contaminated products; (iii) patients who
also run the risk of exposure due to the variable quality of waste
management practices in hospitals and health facilities; and (iv)
households whose livelihood depends on triage of waste.
To address potential risks and identify remedial actions a waste
management assessment has been carried out. The August 2002 assessment
raised concerns with respect to: (i) air pollution resulting from burning
of waste products; (ii) water pollution stemming from inappropriate
disposal of wastes; and (iii) risks of exposure to contaminated products.
The handling and disposal of waste management products in health
facilities suffers from a number of weaknesses: lack of equipment and
supplies; personnel shortages; poor knowledge of risks and mitigation
measures; lack of procedures for waste management; and absence of private
sector waste management firms.
-7-



The government's Waste Management Plan proposes to address the following
objectives:
Improving legal, institutional and technical framework by elaborating
appropriate legislation and developing protocols and guidelines.
Strengthening waste management practices in hospitals and health
facilities by: (i) introducing regulatory measures; (ii) allocating
budgetary resources for financing these activities; (iii) introducing a
triage system whereby hazardous materials are separated for incineration;
(iv) promoting use of recyclable materials; and (v) developing appropriate
waste management disposal systems for the different types of health
infrastructure.
Train hospital personnel and waste management operators.
Increase awareness amongst the population of the risks associated with
these hazardous materials and of the need to adopt hygienic practices at
the household level.
Foster private sector participation in the management of waste products by
strengthening private sector capacities and promoting public/private
partnerships.
Provide appropriate equipment (e.g. incinerators, hazardous waste
trashcans); and materials to health facilities to assure that wastes are
disposed in a safe manner.
Disseminate, validate and carry out the national waste management plan.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Miriam Schneidman
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-9391
Fax: 202-473-8107
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March
21, 2002.
-8-



