1                       24879
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
o-foShop
'Itt M4t1 1KI
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/16/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: RWANDA                               Project ID: P071374
Project: Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Project for Rwanda  Task Team Leader: Miriam Schneidman
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 28, 2002  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 26, 2002             IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: AFTH3                          Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme: Fighting communicable diseases (P); Social
Status: Lending                              risk coping (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project is part of the Multi-country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa
Region (MAP II) approved on December 20, 2001. In accordance with the main goal of the
MAP, the objectives of this operation are to strengthen prevention measures in order to slow
down the spread of HIV/AIDS and expand support and care for those infected or affected by
HIV/AIDS. These objectives will be attained through the use of a multi-sectoral approach,
supporting activities undertaken by public and private organizations and by the civil society. The
goal is to scale up responses to the epidemic by supporting promising approaches.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project includes three components:
* Public Sector Support: The first component will finance annual work plans of line
ministries, provinces, municipalities and other public agencies. All work plans will include
capacity building activities. Plans will also include performance indicators to assist in
monitoring results. The Ministry of Health work plan will focus on treatment of sexually
transmitted infections (STIs) and opportunistic infections; voluntary testing and counseling
(VTC); prevention of mother-to-child transmission; and blood safety. The government plans
to procure drugs through the national drug procurement and distribution agency
(CAMERWA), which has a good track record in providing high quality products at
competitive prices. Other line ministries (e.g. Education, Social Affairs) expect to focus on
behavioral change of their constituencies, providing testing and care for their employees (e.g.



2
ISDS
Defense), and/or supporting affected groups, particularly orphans (e.g. Social Affairs). The
project will also support annual work plans to be carried out by GLIA, a agency set up to
address HIV/AIDS regional issues. Work plans of public sector institutions will include a
range of prevention, treatment, care and support activities, including awareness raising and
advocacy; condom promotion; drugs, medical equipment and supplies; staff training;
protocols and guidelines; and supervision support.
*   Civil Society Support: The civil society component will support HIV/AIDS work plans of
community groups, youth clubs, women's groups, associations of People Living with
HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), religious groups and private
enterprises. Annual work plans will include: information/education/communications (IEC)
activities, support and care, mitigation activities, and capacity building activities aimed at
strengthening institutional capacities.
*   Management, Monitoring & Evaluation: The project management/monitoring/evaluation
component will provide financial and technical support for the executive secretariat of the
national AIDS commission (CNLS). One of the major areas of emphasis will be on
supporting the monitoring and evaluation unit of the CNLS.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be carried out nationally. There are no particular concerns about protected areas
or critical natural habitats.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
A Waste Management Plan has been drafted as part of project preparation. The report comprises an
assessment of waste management deficiencies and identifies mitigation measures for addressing them.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                              Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                 * Yes 0 No   0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                    O Yes * No O TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                            O Yes * No O TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                              O Yes * No O TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                O Yes * No O TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                    C Yes 0 No 0 TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                             G Yes O No   * TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                              O Yes * No   G TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*        0 Yes 0 No 0 TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)      C Yes 0 No 0 TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas



3
ISDS
Section H - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project is not expected to have any major adverse environmental effects. Nevertheless, a waste
management assessment has been carried out in order to identify potential issues and remedial actions.
The August 2002 assessment raised concerns with respect to: (i) air pollution resulting from burning of
waste products; (ii) water pollution stemming from inappropriate disposal of wastes; and (iii) risks of
exposure to contaminated products for various stakeholders (i.e. medical, support, patients, poor
households, general population). As described in the report, the handling and disposal of waste
management products in health facilities suffers from a number of weaknesses: lack of equipment and
supplies; personnel shortages; poor knowledge of risks and mitigation measures; lack of procedures for
waste management; and absence of private sector waste management firms.
Il.D. lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Not applicale
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No long term impacts are expected, to the extent that a series of mitigation measures will be
introduced as part of the government's Waste Management Plan.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The government's Waste Management Plan proposes to address five major objectives:
*   Improving legal, institutional and technical framework by elaborating appropriate legislation and
developing protocols and guidelines.
*   Strengthening waste management practices in hospitals and health facilities by: (i) introducing
regulatory measures; (ii) allocating budgetary resources for financing these activities;
(iii) introducing a triage system whereby hazardous materials are separated for
incineration; (iv) promoting use of recyclable materials; and (v) developing appropriate
waste management disposal systems for the different types of health infrastructure.
* Train hospital personnel and waste management operators.
*   Increase awareness amongst the population of the risks associated with these
hazardous materials and of the need to adopt hygienic practices at the household level.
*   Foster private sector participation in the management of waste products by
strengthening private sector capacities and promoting public/private partnerships.



4
ISDS
(i)Recurrent Expenditure:  This subcomponent would require retro active financing
beginning July 1, 2002 which would finance: (a) rent payments of school buildings; (b)
transportation including fuel, vehicles maintenance, licensing and insurance; (c) water
and electricity utilities for schools, directorates and the Ministry headquarters; (d)
conmmunication including telephones and mail (e)consumables such as cleaning materials
and other perishable items (f)maintenance of equipment and buildings (g)heating fuel and
(h) and other items.
(ii)General Examinations : this subcomponent would finance stationary; printing of
examinations. This is a requirement for the current year of 2002-2003 and may require
retroactive financing through ESSPII if it is not covered in ESSP.
(iii) Support for School Activities : this subcomponent would require retroactive financing
beginning July 1, 2002 and would finance materials required school activities such as sports, arts,
science, home economics and other summer school activities.
(iv) Copy printers for Secondary Schools. This subcomponent would require retroactive
financing beginning July 1, 2002 and would finance 200 copiers for secondary schools.
(v) Supplies for Vocational and Commercial Education Schools: this subcomponent would
require retroactive financing and would finance essential tools and raw materials used on a daily
basis in training students in different vocational and commercial disciplines.
(vi) Voucher SystemThis subcomponent would financeupport to Palestinian Higher
Education institutions. The voucher system to institutions is an effective tool that provides financial
support to institutions of higher education while encouraging the enrolment of students in high priority
fields. This tool is part of the Ministry's financing strategy and entails paying institutions on the basis of
the number of students enrolled in high priority fields of study. The payment will cover the difference
between the normative cost and the current tuition levels of programs identified as national priority areas.
Health Services (US$16.756):
This component would be retroactively financed from July 1, 2002 and would cover six
months of the non-salary recurrent budget of the health ministry and would include the following
essential non-salary needs in Health services:(i)Essential drugs and medical consumTihes
sub-component will finance the procurement of essential drugs, vaccines, laboratory and blood bank
materials and other medical consumables.
(ii) Medical treatment abroad for critical cases : this subcomponent would finance the treatment
of those patients who are in critical condition and their medical needs cannot be taken care of in
West Bank and Gaza hospital facilities.
(iii)Non -medical expenses: This sub-component will finance non medical costs of operating and
maintaining of health facilities including communication, fuel, water and electricity utilities, rent
for health facilities, food, cleaning contracts, cleaning materials, transportation, linen, uniforms
and stationary. It will also finance the repair or replacement of ambulances damaged during the
conflict.
(iv) Psycho-social trauma counseling: This sub-component will finance contracts with NGOs to



5
ISDS
provide community-based and school-based counseling services to promote psycho-social
well-being for conflict-affected population, as well as coordination of such services.  For
example the Palestinian National Plan of Action for Palestinian Children; an umbrella for NGOs,
are dealing with psycho-social issues and could be considered under a subcontract with the MoH
to implement this subcomponent, to ensure successful implementation of these services.
(vi) Nutrition services : This sub-component will finance nutritional monitoring, education and
supplements.
SocialAssistance (US$3.65 million)
Mechanisms to assist the newly poor: These mechanisms would be temporary in nature to
allow families who have lost their income due to the closures and the induced economic crisis, to
partially replace their lost income. New programs would target the vulnerable, both permanent and
temporary, with clear eligibility criteria and monitoring capabilities to determine the level and duration
of assistance. These new programs would consist of: (i) social welfare centers to assist the handicapped,
the elderly and victims of domestic violence, (ii) programs for people with disabilities to integrate them
into society; (iv) school-based feeding programs in poor geographical areas; and (iii) emergency
workfare programs to provide income opportunities for those who have lost their jobs during the conflict
(to be decided on the basis of the findings in July 2002, of an ILO evaluation mission.)
(i) Social welfare shelters : This sub-component will finance goods and services needed to operate
welfare shelters. It would include rent for two child protection centers for six months (the permanent
centers are under construction); construction of three additional rooms for a center for the mentally
disabled and a center for abused women.. The shelters cater to various groups including battered
women, the elderly and infirm, and the handicapped. They are either run directly by MOSA or by
NGOs under contract from the Ministry.
(ii) Training and rehabilitation : This sub-component will finance goods and services for (a)
vocational centers that provide school dropouts with labor market skills, and (b) centers that provide
rehabilitation and reintegration services to dysfunctional youth; the elderly, and the disabled A total
of 14 such centers are run directly by the MOSA or by NGOs under contract.
(iii) Programs for people with disabilities This sub-component would finance outreach programs to
integrate children with disabilities into society and to finance special enrichment programs for
children with leaming disabilities.  It would also finance wheelchairs, prostheses, and other
equipment needed by people with physical disabilities and, if possible, home care and outreach
services for homebound adults.
Component 2:        Project Management
This component will finance project management and implementation. It would finance the
implementation costs for the second ESSP for the MoH, MoE, MoSa, MoL and MoF. The component
would finance, external audits, replacement of destroyed equipment and supplies in the Ministries of
Health, Education and Social Assistance (especially hard and software - ( Each Ministry's exact
requirement for replacing destroyed equipment will be specified at appraisal)
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites



6
ISDS
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project is a second generation project which continues to provide budgetary support
for non-salary recurrent costs for the social services line ministries. This project is an emergency
project in accordance to O.P. 8.50, hence the environmental mitigating measures (if any) will be
carried out during project implementation. Moreover, the project, being a category C, will entail
limited or no civil works.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     C Yes * No    C' TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        O Yes * No    C TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                O Yes * No    CTBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  O Yes * No    OTBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    G Yes * No    CTBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        C Yes * No    C' TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 O Yes * No    ' TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                  C Yes * No    ' TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*            0 Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes * No    Ci TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of altematives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
See section on Environment.



7
ISDS
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
A Rapid Assessment was carried out in collaboration with government, civil society and donors for the
first ESSP project. This assessment took place less than six months ago and therefore its results are still
valid. Furthermore, the poor and marginalized will have the opportunity to participate in the design and
delivery of projects, and services will be tailored to their needs. A demand-driven component whereby
community-based organizations may apply for funding for social services will further promote
community input into project activities. Services run by NGOs will be required to promote community
involvement in planning and monitoring, and local communication campaigns will help to stimulate
community demand and interest in services.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan.                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable



8
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             David J. Steel                              09/18/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Hocine Chalal                          09/19/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Mohamed Ben-Achour                     09/19/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Sherif Kamel F. Arif                     09/19/02
Sector Manager/Director:      Jacques F. Baudouy                          09/19/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
5EAHCH_        FEEDBACK                     5NOW&AS . m



