Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H 029 RW 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 13, 2003
Page  2
CONFORMED 
 
GRANT NUMBER H 029 RW 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 13, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
(B) 
the Association has received from the Recipient its national plan against 
HIV/AIDS (the “2002-2006 Strategic Plan for HIV/AIDS”), dated May 2002, describing 
the Recipient’s  program of  objectives, policies and actions designed to prevent and 
control the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic (the Program) and declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved, on December 20, 
2001, the Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for the Africa  Region estimated in 
the amount of US$500,000,000 over a period of three years;  
(D) 
the Project is part of the Second Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program for 
the Africa Region; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
Page  3
-
3
-
modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“AIDS” means acquired immune deficiency syndrome; 
(b) 
“BCC” means Behavioral Change Communications; 
(c) 
“Beneficiary” means a community, group or person, including an NGO 
(as hereinafter defined), a religious organization or private enterprise who or which has 
met the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined) and the requirements of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and as a result, has 
received, or is entitled to receive, a Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying out 
of a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined); 
(d) “CAMERWA” 
means 
Centrale d’Achat des Médicaments Essentiels
,
a
non-profit drug procurement agency established and 
operating under the Recipient’s 
laws; 
(e) “CDLS” 
means 
Comités de District de Lutte contre le SIDA
,
the district 
HIV/AIDS committees established by CNLS (as hereinafter defined) to coordinate 
HIV/AIDS activities at the district level and referred to in Part D.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement; 
(f) 
“Community Development Committee” or “CDC” means an elected 
local entity within the Recipient’s territory established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s law No. 4/2001 dated January 13, 2001; 
(g) “CNLS” 
means 
Commission Nationale de Lutte Contre le SIDA
,
the 
Recipient’s national HIV/AIDS commission established within the Office of the 
President and operating pursuant to Presidential Arrêté No. 02/01 dated March 16, 2001; 
(h) 
“CNLS Executive Secretariat” means the administrative and technical 
body of the CLNS, referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) “CPLS” 
means 
Comités Provinciaux de Lutte contre le SIDA, 
the 
provincial HIV/AIDS Committees established in 12 provinces and referred to in Part D.2 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
4
-
(j) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“HIV” means the human immuno-deficiency virus; 
(l) 
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication; 
(m) 
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement and 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health; 
(o) 
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient; 
(p) 
“On-granting Organization” means an NGO with substantial capacities 
and a strong track record, which, under a Sub-Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined), 
will provide grant funding to smaller NGOs and associations in accordance with 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to strengthen or scale up their activities 
relating to the implementation of the Project; 
(q) 
“PLWHA” means people living with HIV/AIDS; 
(r) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(s) 
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in 
 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to 
time in agreement with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the 
Project Operational Manual; 
(t) 
“Project Management Unit” or “PMU” means the Program Management 
Unit within the CLNS Executive Secretariat referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
(u) 
“Project Year” means the first period of twelve (12) months following 
the Effective Date of the Project (First Project Year) and each subsequent period of 
twelve months thereafter until the completion of the Project; 
(v) 
“Public Sector Agencies” or “PSAs” means the Recipient’s Ministries or 
other public sector institutions; 
(w) 
“Rwandan Franc” or “FRW” means the Recipient’s currency; 
Page  5
-
5
-
(x) 
“Special Account A” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Part C of the Project and referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;  
(y) 
“Special Account B” means the special deposit account opened for 
withdrawals in respect of expenditures made under Parts A, B, and D of the Project and 
referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Account A and Special Account B; 
(aa) 
“Sub-Grant” means a sub-grant made, or to be made, out of the proceeds 
of the Grant to finance a Sub-Project (as hereinafter defined); 
(bb) 
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
the Recipient and a Beneficiary for the provision of a Sub-Grant in accordance with 
paragraphs 8 and 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(cc) 
“Sub-Project” means any activity under Part C of the Project, in respect 
of which a Sub-Grant has been, or may be, provided;  
(dd) 
“Waste Management Plan” means the waste management plan, adopted 
by the Recipient on November 22, 2002, setting out the measures and arrangements to be 
taken to ensure proper management of hazardous waste under the Project; 
(ee) 
“Work Plan” means the annual work plan of any of the PSAs which has 
been approved by CNLS Executive Secretariat in accordance with the eligibility criteria 
set out in the Implementation Manual and the provisions of paragraph 12 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement, and which is eligible for financing, under the Project; and 
(ff) 
“Work Plan MOU” means the memorandum of understanding to be 
entered into between CNLS Executive Secretariat and one of the PSAs for the purpose of 
carrying out a Work Plan. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 22,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
Page  6
-
6
-
(i) expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made in 
accordance with a Sub-Grant Agreement for the benefit of a  Beneficiary to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Sub-Projects to be financed 
under Part C of the Project or a Work Plan to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works 
and services required for a Subproject to be financed under Part B.2 of the Project, or a 
Work Plan to be financed under Part A of the Project, and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested.  
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts (Special Account A and Special Account B) in its 
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of each respective Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 30, 2008 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Beneficiary from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section.   
Section 2.05. (a) Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on June 15 
and December 15 in each year.  
Page  7
-
7
-
(b) 
The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through CNLS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and public health practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure future achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in FRW in its central bank (the Project Account), and 
thereafter maintain the Project Account under terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Association until the completion of the Project; 
Page  8
-
8
-
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of FRW 38,452,500 
(the Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at annual intervals, replenish the Project Account by 
the amounts required to finance the Reci
pient’s contribution for expenditures under the 
Project as shall be agreed upon between the Recipient and the Association; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in 
accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance 
expenditures under the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year:  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
Page  9
-
9
-
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01. of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than  
45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover 
the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end 
of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
Page  10
-
10
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried; and 
(b) 
the CNLS Arrêté shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CNLS to 
implement the Project. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Grant Agreement within the meaning of 
 
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has established a Project Management Unit in a form and 
with functions, resources and staffing satisfactory to the Association and appointed 
thereto the following staff with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association: a project manager, a procurement specialist, a financial specialist, and three 
project officers
;
(b) 
the Recipient has adopted a procurement plan for the First Project Year, 
and a Project implementation plan, both satisfactory to the Association; and  
(c) 
the Recipient has opened the Project Account pursuant to Section  
3.04 (a) of this Agreement and has deposited therein the Initial Deposit referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; and 
(d) 
the Recipient has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, all in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  11
-
11
-
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
and Economic Planning 
P.O. Box 158 
Kigali 
 Republic of Rwanda 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
MINFIN-RWANDA 
 22687 
  (250) 
577 
581 
 
MINFIN-RWA  
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
           
Telex:   
             Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
           248423 (MCI) or           (202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
               64145 (MCI) 
Page  12
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written.
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By /s/ Zac Nsenga 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
  Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
500,000 
90% 
 
(2) Goods 
 
100% 
*
(a)  Drugs and HIV/AIDS 
 
Prevention Commodities 
5,950,000 
 
 
(b)  Equipment and Vehicles 
380,000 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ Services, 
700,000 
100% of foreign  
 
including audits 
 
expenditures and  
85 % of local 
expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
1,480,000 
100% 
 
(5)  Work plans under Part A 
 
       3,360,000 
 
 
90% 
of the Project, including goods,  
supplies, training, workshops,  
and in incremental operating  
costs  
 
(6)  Sub-Grants under Part C of  
6,940,000 
100% of amounts 
 
disbursed  under  
 
Part C of the Project 
 
(7) Operating Costs 
2,090,000 
 
90% 
 
(8) 
Unallocated                                             800,000 
Page  14
-
14
-
_________ 
 
TOTAL                                              22,200,000 
 
========
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means incremental costs incurred under the 
Project on account of fuel and maintenance for vehicles, equipment operation and 
maintenance, utilities, office supplies, communication expenses, staff travel, subsistence 
and representation allowances, salaries for contractual and temporary staff, management 
fees, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a) 
 payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 450,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2) (Goods), (3) (Consultants’ 
Services), (4) (Training), and (7) (Operating Costs) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2003; 
 
(b) 
payments for Sub-Grants unless such Sub-Grants have been made in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Project Operational Manual and paragraphs 7, 8, and 9 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
payments for expenditures under Category (5) (Work plans) unless the 
Work plans have been approved in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Project Operational Manual and 
paragraphs 12, 13, and 14 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) works 
costing less than $50,000; (b) services for consulting firms costing less than $100,000;  
(c) services for individual consultants costing less than $50,000; (d) goods costing less 
Page  15
-
15
-
than $50,000; (e) Sub-Grants for Sub-Projects under Part C of the Project; (f) training; 
and (g) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  16
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to support the Recipient’s multi-sectoral efforts 
in: (a) preventing and reducing the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the Recipient’s 
territory; and (b) increasing access to care and support for people infected or affected by 
the HIV/AIDS epidemic. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Support to the Public Sector
Capacity building within PSAs and implementation of HIV/AIDS annual work 
plans to assist the public sector, including:  
1. 
Capacity building within PSAs including support in carrying out sector impact 
assessments, policy formulation and training of staff in the preparation, execution and 
monitoring of work plans. 
2. 
Information, Education and Communication and Behavioral Change 
Communications campaigns including campaigns for promotion of condoms, distribution 
of information and gender issues related to HIV/AIDS. 
Part B
:
Health  Sector HIV/AIDS Care and Treatment
1. 
Implementation of work plans prepared by the Ministry of Health and carried 
through public-private sector partnerships to: (a) carry out diagnosis, care and treatment 
HIV/AIDS patients including sexually transmitted infections, opportunistic infections and 
tuberculosis; (b) support programs to assure the prevention of mother-to-child HIV 
transmission; (c) carry out HIV voluntary testing and counseling services; (d) improve 
HIV testing, counseling, diagnosis, and monitoring of patients by laboratories and blood 
banks; (e) carry out of minor rehabilitation/refurbishing of sites which will serve for the 
provision of antiretroviral therapy; (f) improve surveillance and operational research, all 
through the provision of technical advisory services, civil works, training and acquisition 
of computers, equipment, vehicles, medical equipment, reagents and drugs including 
antiretroviral drugs for treatment of patients; and (g) carry out activities under the Waste 
Management Plan. 
2. 
Information, Education and Communication and Behavioral Change 
Communications campaigns including campaigns for promotion of condoms, distribution 
of information and gender issues related to HIV/AIDS.  
Page  17
-
17
-
Part C
:
Support to Civil Society
Implementation of community-based Sub-Projects, aimed at HIV/AIDS 
prevention, social and financial support for orphans and vulnerable children, counseling, 
training, and support to associations of PLWHA, through provision of Sub-Grants to 
Beneficiaries. 
Part D:
Program Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of CNLS to manage, coordinate, program, monitor 
and evaluate the Project, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services. 
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of CPLS and CDLS to coordinate local activities and 
facilitate social mobilization, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services at the provincial and district levels. 
3. 
Capacity building of local communities to develop and implement HIV/AIDS 
prevention at the local level, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2008.
Page  18
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of  
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Contracts for drugs and medical supplies estimated to less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, 
and goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers,  may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  19
-
19
-
(b) 
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000  equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $620,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or, are of a proprietary nature up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $200,000, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent may be 
procured from the United Nations Development Programme Inter-Agency Procurement 
Services Office, United Nations Children’s Fund Procurement and Assembly Center, 
United Nations Population Fund or World Health Organization in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
6. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for the Sub-Projects under Part C of the Project shall 
be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association and described in 
the Project Operational Manual. 
7. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Page  20
-
20
-
8. 
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
Contracts may be procured under advance contracting or retroactive financing 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1.9 of the Guidelines.  
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods or works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000; (b) the first three contracts for goods to be procured under 
national competitive bidding procedures; (c) each contract for goods to be procured under 
direct contracting procedures; and (d) each of the first ten (10) Sub-Grants under Part C 
of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  21
-
21
-
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial and technical audits, estimated to cost less than $75,000  
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services: (i) for training; (ii) for consulting assignments provided by NGOs or 
other organizations to assist provinces, districts and community sub-projects estimated to 
cost less than $10,000 equivalent per contract, in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000; and (iii) provided by CAMERWA as procurement agent, may be procured, 
with the Association's prior agreement, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines, provided that, in procuring anti-retroviral 
drugs, CAMERWA shall use the World Health Organization pre-qualified list of 
pharmaceutical firms. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
Page  22
-
22
-
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  23
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
A. 
Overall Project Oversight and Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, the CNLS Executive Secretariat in a form and with functions satisfactory to the 
Association, and appoint thereto staff having experience and qualifications satisfactory to 
the Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project Operational 
Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out details of:  
(a) the Project implementation plan; (b) a financial management manual; (c) a Project 
procurement plan; (d) procedures for preparation, appraisal, implementation and 
supervision of work plans; (e) standard formats for Sub-Grant Agreements; and (f) such 
other administrative, financial, technical  and organizational arrangements as shall be 
required for the Project.  
3. 
Except as  the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures and arrangements set out in the Project Operational Manual 
and the Waste Management Plan; and (ii) not amend or waive, or permit to be amended 
or waived, the Project Operational Manual or the Waste Management Plan or any 
provision thereto, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.   
4. 
The CNLS Executive Secretariat shall review and approve the annual work 
program from the PSAs and supervise and coordinate the overall implementation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Operational 
Manual. 
5. 
The PMU shall supervise and coordinate the overall implementation of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Project Operational 
Manual. 
6. The 
PSAs
 shall develop and implement work plans and submit them to the 
CNLS Executive Secretariat for approval.  To this end, a Project approval committee will 
be established by the CNLS Executive Secretariat to review and approve such plans. This 
committee will be headed by the CNLS Executive Secretary and will include as members 
the Project manager, the director of finance and director of Planning and Coordination of 
CNLS as well as representatives of MOH and the Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Planning, and other selected representatives of public sector agencies and civil society 
institutions. 
Page  24
-
24
-
B. 
Procedures, Eligibility Criteria and Terms and Conditions of Sub-Grants
7. 
The Recipient shall provide Sub-Grants to finance community-based Sub-
Projects through on-granting arrangements (under the supervision of NGOs) or CDCs  in 
accordance with procedures and criteria set forth in the Project Operational Manual 
which shall include, but not be limited to, the following criteria: (a) the work plan has 
been designed in a participatory approach; (b) the proposed Sub-Project fits into the 
overall work plan; and (c) the proposed Sub-Project activities are among the list of 
eligible activities as it appears in the Project Operational Manual. 
8. 
Sub-Grants shall be provided: 
 
(a) 
to On-granting Organizations benefiting from technical assistance from a 
national or international NGO solicited by the CNLS.  The On-granting Organizations 
will be responsible for screening proposals and providing assistance to Beneficiaries; and 
 
(b) 
to community Beneficiaries through Sub-Projects to community 
HIV/AIDS initiatives identified at the local level by CDCs, CPLS and CDLS. 
9. 
Sub-Grant Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:  
(a) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-Project in 
accordance with the Project Operational Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards and 
to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Sub-Projects; 
(b) 
the requirement that: (A) the goods, works and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Sub-Grant shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association; and (B) such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in carrying out the Sub-Project; 
(c) 
the right of the CNLS Executive Secretariat to inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants 
included in the Sub-Project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; 
(d) 
the right of the CNLS Executive Secretariat to obtain all information, as 
the CNLS Executive Secretariat or the Association shall reasonably request, regarding the 
administration, operation and financial management of the Sub-Project; 
(e) 
the right of the CNLS Executive Secretariat, to suspend or terminate the 
right of the Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-Grant upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the Sub-Grant Agreement; and 
Page  25
-
25
-
(f) 
the rights and obligations of any agency which shall execute the Sub-
Project on behalf of the Beneficiary. 
C. Work 
Plans
10. 
The Recipient shall request all public and private institutions participating in the 
Project to prepare and furnish to the CNLS Executive Secretariat annual work plans in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
11. 
The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
Work Plans shall be elaborated, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance with 
the procedures and other provisions set forth or referred to in the Project Operational 
Manual. 
12. 
Eligibility Criteria for Work Plans
Work Plans shall be for activities related to HIV/AIDS activities in the PSAs in 
accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines set forth in the Project 
Operational Manual, which shall include, but not be limited to, activities in the following 
areas: IEC/BCC campaigns, policy development, research and surveillance and capacity 
building.  HIV/AIDS activities in MOH shall be for activities related to treatment and 
care, including HIV voluntary testing and counseling services, and opportunistic 
infections and prevention of mother-to-child transmissions. 
13. 
For purposes of implementation of the action plans referred to in the preceding 
paragraph, the CNLS Executive Secretariat may conclude a memorandum of 
understanding with each ministry, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall specify, 
inter alia
:
(i) the activities to be implemented at both the central and 
regional levels; and (ii) the modalities of transfers of funds by the CNLS Executive 
Secretariat to the relevant ministry for the financing of its action plan. 
14. 
Terms and Conditions of Work Plan MOUs
A
Work Plan MOU shall include the following: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of CNLS and the Public Sector Agency: (i) to carry out the 
Work Plan MOU with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards; and (ii) to maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures relating to the Work Plan; 
 
(b) 
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed from 
the proceeds of the Work Plan shall: (i) be procured in accordance with procedures 
ensuring efficiency and economy and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Work Plan; and 
Page  26
-
26
-
(c) 
the Recipient reserves the right to: 
 
(i) 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
construction included in the Work Plan, the operations thereof 
and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(ii) 
obtain all information as the Recipient or the Association shall 
reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial conditions of CNLS and the Public Sector Agency; and 
 
(iii) 
suspend or terminate the right of CNLS or any of the Public 
Sector Agency to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by 
CNLS or the Public Sector Agency to perform any of their 
obligations under the Work Plan MOU. 
 
D. Antiretroviral 
Therapy
15. 
Pilot antiretroviral therapy under Part B of the Project shall be initiated once the 
Recipient has adopted an action plan, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include 
the following components: (a) training of technical personnel necessary to carry out this 
therapy; (b) acquisition of equipment necessary to monitor patients’ reaction to the 
therapy; and (c) the Recipient has designed and implemented a system to control access 
to antiretroviral therapy including equitable and fair guidelines and criteria for selection 
of beneficiary patients of this pilot therapy. 
E. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
16. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about November of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) 
of this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December of each year, the report 
referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
Page  27
-
27
-
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter. 
17. Interim 
Evaluation
(a) 
The Recipient shall, on or about eighteen months after the Effectiveness 
of the Grant, cause an interim evaluation of the Project to be carried out by an 
independent group, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and will 
form the basis of the review between the Association and the Recipient.  Such evaluation 
shall assess, 
inter alia
,
the performance of the PMU and other key implementation 
agencies or entities, including PSAs and civil society organizations and the operation of 
Project processes, requirements, and other implementation arrangements. 
18. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
The Recipient shall, on or about June 30, 2006, carry out jointly with the 
Association a midterm review. Such review shall assess the following: (i) the overall 
progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities; (iii) an evaluation of the Subprojects and the Work Plans;  
(iv) progress on procurement and disbursements; and (v) make adjustments to  the Project 
and reallocate funds to improve performance, if needed. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, three months before such review, prepare and 
furnish to the Association reports, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, including the preparation of a program of action, to deal 
with deficiencies in Project implementation identified prior to such review. 
 
(c) 
Based on such review, the Recipient shall promptly prepare an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of the Project, and 
shall thereafter implement such action plan. 
 
Page  28
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the 
term
 “Eligible Categories” means Category (6) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account A; and 
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (7) set forth in said table in respect of Special 
Account B. 
 
(b) 
the term “Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Sub-Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: (i) in respect of the Special 
Account A, an amount equivalent to $650,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $325,000, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 750,000; and (ii) in respect of the Special Account B, an amount 
equivalent to $1,350,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $675,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Grant Account of amounts allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of amounts allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows: 
Page  29
-
29
-
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such 
amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the respective Special Account, 
the Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
Page  30
-
30
-
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  31
-
31
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient.” 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant.” 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit.” 
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account.”
 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement.” 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.02.  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are modified to 
read “commitment charge.” 
Page  32
-
32
-
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (a) 
(ii) is modified to read: “any other development grant agreement or any development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement.” 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read: “any development grant agreement, development credit agreement or 
development financing agreement.” 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on.” 
6. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.  Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Borrower under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
