Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11082
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
AUGUST 31, 1992
Infrastructure Sector Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADT           Average Daily Traffic
BCB           Banco Central do Brasil (Brazil's Central Bank)
DER           Departamento (Estadual) de Estradas de Rodagem  (State Roads Department)
DNER          Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem  (National Roads Department of the
Federal Government)
DRF           Distrito Rodoviario Federal (Federal Roads District)
EBTU          Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos (Brazilian Urban Transport Company of the
Federal Government)
FEPASA        Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (Sao Paulo Railway Company)
GEIPOT        Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes  (Brazilian Transport Planning
Agency of the Federal Government)
GOB           Government of Brazil
HDM           Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IPEA          Instituto de Pesquisas Economicas e Sociais (GOB's Economic and Social Research
Institute)
IPR           Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias (Road Research Institute of the Federal Governument)
MT            Ministerio dos Transportes (Federal Ministry of Transport)
PMS           Pavement Management System
RFFSA         Rede Ferroviaria Federal S.A. (Federal Railway Company)
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFmFCIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD 8ANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of DirecoCeneral
Opetatons Evaluatkin
August 31, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil Federal Highways Sector
Proiect (Loan 2446-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil Federal Highways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part
II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has
been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .......................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................................  ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ....................    1
A.      Project Identity ...............................................    1
B.   Background                        ..1......................... 
*       Sector Development Objectives ................................    1
*       Institutional Context  .......................................    2
*       Linkages between project, sector and macro-policy objectives ....            .........   2
C.   Project Objectives and Description .              ........................                           3
*    Project Objectives ......................   3
*    Components ......................  3
D.   Project Design and Organization ...... ..............                                                4
E.      Project Implementation ..........................................    5
F.      Project Results ...............................................    6
G.   Project Sustainability              ................................                                 8
H.  Bank Performance                   ................................                                   9
1.   Performance of DNER                  ................................                                9
J.      Project Relationship        .....................             .......................   10
K.      Contractors and Consulting Services         ...............          ..................   10
L.   Project Documentation and Data                 .........................                            11
M.  Lessons of the Experience                     .........................                              11
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................  12
A.      Achievement of Project Goals and Objectives ............................   12
B.      Eva iation of Bank and DNER Performance  ............................   17
C.      Conclusions and Recommendations  ..................................   22
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................................  25
1.      Related Bank Loans .         ...........................................   25
2.   Project Timetable .............................................. 30
3.   Project Implementation . ......................................... 30
4.   Loan Disbursements ............................................ 31
5.    Project Costs and Financing ...................  32
6.  Project Results ...................  33
7.   Status of Covenants ...................  36
8.   Use of Bank Resources ...................  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This Project Completion Report (PCR) pertains to the Federal Highways Sector
Project in Brazil, for which a loan in the amount of US$210.0 million equivalent was
approved in June 1984. The loan was closed on December 31, 1989, six months later
than planned, following one extension to the loan. The last disbfrsement was on June
30, 1990. Total disbursements were US$204.6 million, and US$5.4 million were
cancelled.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Sector Operations Division of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, Country Department I (Evaluation
Summary, Parts I and III). An extensive and thorough borrower PCR was prepared by
DNER in January 1991. Key sections of that document have been translated and
incorporated as Part II of this report.
3.    This PCR drew from the following documentation inter alia: the Staff Appraisal
Report; The President's Report; the Loan Agreement; Bank Supervision Reports;
Borrower's PCR; Progress Reports produced by the Borrower and its consultants, and
auditors' reports. Discussions were also held with DNER staff in Brasilia, and Bank staff
in Washington who were involved with the project.



I



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Rising oil prices in the 1970s forced Brazil to pursue more energy-efficient policies for the
transport sector. Although this meant reversing the decline in railways and coastal shipping, it also
required the more efficient use of highways, responsible for 94% of all passenger and 60% of all
cargo traffic.
2.    Brazil's vast highway network is one of the largest in the world, with a total of some 1.4
million kilometers of federal, state and municipal roads. The project concentrated upon the federal
portion of the network. Although these federal roads comprised only some 90,000 kilometers, they
constituted Brazil's inter-state highway system and carried most long distance traffic, nearly half of
which was commercial. Higher than expected traffic flows and lack of routine maintenance led to
pavement fatigue and to a serious deterioration in the physical condition of these roads, most of which
were built in the early 1970s.
3.     Strengthening highway maintenance and rehabilitation capability therefore became GOB's
priority for the sector at the time of project appraisal, a strategy supported by the Bank through this
and subsequent operations in Brazil. These objectives have been incorporated into Brazil's National
Transport Plan, awaiting Congressional approval at the time of writing.
4.    The National Roads Department, DNER was responsible for the development of Brazil's
federal highway network during the 1960s and early 1970s. Macro-economic setbacks in the 1980s
and cuts to DNER's own budget have shrunk the agency's investment capacity, which is today barely
one fifth of what it was at its peak during the construction of the network. State Highway
Departments (DERs) are responsible for state highways. DERs technical and financial capabilities
vary considerably from state to state, depending to a large extent upon the local level of economic
development. Municipal highways are the responsibility of local municipal authorities.
The Project
5.    This project was the seventh to support investment in federal highways in Brazil since 1968.
The improved pavement conditions to result from the project were expected to yield significant
macro-economic benefits such as: (a) reduced oil imports through fuel savings; and (b) increased
exports through more efficient road transport along export corridors rehabilitated under the project.



iii
6.     The project aimed at: (a) improving Brazil's balance of payments; (b) rehabilitating roads of
economic importance; (c) improving highway safety; (d) strengthening DNER's management; and (e)
supporting highway research.
7.     The project's principal component was highway rehabilitation, which accounted for 85% of
project costs at appraisal. The preference for rehabilitation over the construction of new highways
sustained a priority first established under the previous (Sixth Highway) project, approved in 1978. A
highway safety component aimed at improving notorious accident "black spots" through executing
physical improvements and public safety campaigns, accounted for 11 % of estimated costs at
appraisal. The remaining 4% was allocated to training, highway research, and establishing a
pavement management system and an equipment management system for DNER.
8.    As the first sectoral operation in the highway sub-sector in Brazil, the proceeds of the Bank
loan were to finance elements of DNER's own work program that were acceptable to the Bank, being
consistent with project objectives. The size of the Bank loan was partly determined by the amount
required to close the "financing gap" to ensure that DNER's work program as a whole would be
implemented. Project organization wisely relied upon DNER as an experfenced executing agency.
Implementation Experience
9.     Project implementation was expeditious despite two constraining factors. The first and most
important was uncertainty over counterpart funding on several occasions, as DNER's budget shrank
from 1985 onwards. Secondly, lengthy DNER and Bank processing of procurement, as well the need
to prepare Environmental Impact Studies of infrastructure projects in Brazil (after 1986) slowed down
the pace of project execution.
10.   Although DNER closely followed up the progress of works during execution, the lack of
explicit monitoring indicators made it difficult to judge the performance of the investments in relation
to the objectives of the project. Monitoring project costs also proved to be very difficult during a
period of rampant and unstable inflation. The experience of implementing this project showed,
however, DNER's clear preference for physical investments over "softer" components such as
technical assistance and studies. Thus the 85% share of total project costs for (physical) highway
rehabilitation estimated at appraisal, rose to 93 % of total costs by completion.
Results
11.   The project's intended impact upon Brazil's balance of payments and exports is difficult to
judge due to the lack of follow-up. On the other hand, targets for highway rehabilitation were
exceeded by one fifth, and the planned scope of detailed engineering designs exceeded by one quarter.
The works were generally of adequate standard. Procurement led to lower bid prices than budgeted,
although contract adjustments generally led to increased costs. Contractors displayed a propensity to
alter agreed engineering designs during implementation, in ways which generally raised standards and
increased costs. Works contracts generally made it easy for contractors to overrule the supervisory
consultants when it came to design changes.
12.   Another project impact that is difficult to assess is the impact upon highway safety.
Improvements were made to many accident "black spots", but the works were absorbed into the



iv
general category of highway rehabilitation. Unfortunately, no analysis of accident rates before and
after the improvements was undertaken.
13.   Training was particularly successful in some state DERs where on-the-job programs induced a
"training mentality".
14.    The project did succeed in helping to strengthen DNER management and gave an important
stimulus to research activities within the agency. Some progress was made with Pavement
Management System (PMS), which is being further consolidated under the follow-up project.
15.    Difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funding and lengthy procurement procedures forced
Bank missions and DNER staff to focus most of their time and resources upon finding solutions to
these problems on a day-to-day basis. Other aspects of project management, such as monitoring the
performance of sub-projects for example, had to be relegated to second place in mission priorities.
16.    Although ex-ante economic rates of return were estimated carefully for all sub-projects
proposed for financing under the project, ex-post calculations were not made upon project completion.
While the rate of return calculation was treated as an important instrument in the selection of priority
investments, it was clearly not regarded as a necessary instrument for assessing and monitoring the
performance of the completed investments. An ex-post analysis, however, would likely indicate
similar or better than ex-ante rates overall, since the actual costs of works and traffic growth are
generally in line with ex-ante assumptions, and the costs of operating vehicles, and therefore project
benefits, are higher than ex-ante estimates.
Sustainability
17.    The ability to sustain project benefits will depend upon improved programming and increased
funding of network maintenance expenditures. The follow-up project focuses upon these two aspects
of the highway sector.
Bank and DNER Performance
18.    Through its previous experience with the highway sector in Brazil, the Bank was able to bring
considerable expertise to the project. Supervision missions were fielded regularly, although with
overcrowded agendas, which made the fine tuning of project management difficult. Even though
DNER's financial and investment capability declined significantly during project execution, it was
able to manage the project well. Its long experience ensured the prompt and straightforward
preparation of the project for appraisal.
Findines and Lessons
19.    Project design should incorporate monitoring indicators and set standards to measure the
progress of an operation towards fulfilling its objectives.
20.    Notwithstanding the emphasis this project gave to macro-economic objectives such as
improved balance of payments, a highway project's principal economic benefit remains its
contribution to lowering production costs through more efficient road transport.



v
21.   Borrower preference, as expressed by resource allocation, was clearly for physical
investments. To stimulate the implementation of other components, legal covenants should be
introduced, to clearly condition Bank funding for physical infrastructure upon progress with
institutional components.
22.   Overall deterioration of the federal highway network points to: (i) the need for appropriate
programming and funding of network maintenance, and (ii) the need to design road pavements for the
real specifications of traffic, including the heavy axle loads commonly used in Brazil.
23.   For the PMS to be successful in the long term, it requires a reliable and regularly updated
data base as an input.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identitv
Name                    :       Federal Highways Sector Project
Loan Number             :       2446-BR
RVP Unit                :       LAC
Country                 :       Brazil
Subsector               :       Highways
B. Background
Sector Development Objectives
1.1.   World oil price hikes of 1973 and 1979 forced Brazil to pursue more energy efficient policies
for the transport sector. Although this meant reversing a declining role for railways and coastal
shipping, it also required that road transport, by far the dominant mode of transport, which accounts
for 94%  of passenger and 60% of cargo traffic, had to improve its efficiency. Considerable savings
from imported fuel were to be accrued as a result of more efficient use of Brazil's highway network.
1.2.   This premise, valid at the time of project appraisal in 1983, is still pertinent today and
underlies current Bank objectives for the highway subsector in Brazil, which include: (a) pricing
reform; (b) regulatory reform; (c) institutional reform; and (d) improved investment programming.'
More specifically, Bank subsector objectives at appraisal were two-fold; (i) to support adequate
maintenance of the federal, state and municipal networks, and also (ii) to support the necessary
development of the state and municipal road systems.
1.3.   Brazil has a vast highway network.2  About 90,000 km of the 1.4 million system is under
federal jurisdiction through the National Highway Department (DNER). The federal network forms
the basic interstate system, carries most long distance traffic, and is important for the productive
economy since half of this traffic is commercial. Some 50% of the federal network is paved, and
pavement fatigue and higher-than-expected growth of traffic have led to the deterioration of an aging
As stated in: Brazil: Medium Term Strateev Paper for the Infrastructure Sectors, March 28, 1991 LAC Region, Infrastructure
Division.
2    According to The Economist Book of Vital World Statistics (1990) Brazil had the second largest highway network in the world after
the USA (6.2 million km). Apart from the 90,000 km federal roads, 145,000 km a', state, and another 1.2 million km are (mostly
unpaved) municipal roads.



network built prior to the mid 1970s. This project, like its six predecessor projects,3 has thus
focussed upon the most important portion of the national network.
1.4.   The priority of highway maintenance and rehabilitation over new highway construction was
supported by the Sixth Highway Project (Ln 1557-BR). According to the audit of that project made
by OED, this priority shift was adopted in Brazil prior to any other borrower (PPAR No. 8461 p.3).
This strategy has been supported by the present project and is being pursued in earnest by the ongoing
Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Ln 3169-BR).
1.5.   Subsector objectives, as expressed by the National Transport Plan (Plano Nacional de Viacao
- PNV), incorporate this approach. Under current proposals, highway management, including
maintenance and rehabilitation, would be gradually decentralized to State Highway Departments
(DERs), and some federal roads would be reclassified as state highways, reducing the federal network
by some 28 %. To become effective, however, PNV must be approved by Congress. The status of
this approval is uncertain at present since it depends upon a political consensus that has yet to form.4
Institutional Context
1.6.   Established in 1937, DNER is one of the oldest agencies of the federal government. In the
1960s and early 1970s, it was responsible for planning, construction and maintenance of the federal
highway network which is in place today. Macro-economic setbacks of the 1980s and DNER's own
budget cuts accompanied the shift away from new construction to rehabilitation. Various attempts at
launching new earmarked user charges and taxes to arrest the decline of DNER's budget have faltered
in the courts of law (para. 1.44).
1.7.   At the state level, DERs are responsible for the development, operation and maintenance of
their respective state highway networks. DER capabilities vary greatly between states, depending, to
a large extent although not exclusively, upon the level of economic development. Municipal
highways are the responsibility of the local municipal authorities.
Linkages between project. sector and macro-policy objectives
1.8.   Fuel savings (especially diesel), derived from the use of the improved pavement conditions
brought about by the project, were expected to bring macroeconomic benefits to Brazil through: (i) a
reduction in transport costs; and (ii) an improvement (at the margin) of the country's balance of
payments through savings on imported fuels. The balance of payments argument was a particularly
attractive one for a project appraised when Brazil needed to generate large trade surpluses to service
its external debt.
Bank lending to the highway subsector in Brazil has been large. Thirteen loans totalling US$1,843 million have been approved since
1968. Of these, nine loans (including N.W. Region Integrated Development Program (Ln 2062-BR) were aimed primarily at
improving the federal network, one aimed at the improvement of Sao Paulo's state roads, while another three feeder road projects
addressed mainly municipal roads through BNDES (details: Part m 1. of this PCR).
Richer states are naturally more willing, and able to support decentralization than poorer states.



- 3 -
1.9.   As already mentioned, the project helped support the shift of highway subsector objectives
towards rehabilitation and maintenance as priorities.
C. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
1.10.  As stated in the SAR (para. 4.01) and the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2), the project's
objectives were to:
a.     contribute to the equilibrium of the borrower's balance of payments through
conservation of mostly imported motor fuels;
b.     support the maintenance and rehabilitation of roads located in the country's export
corridor or serving sectors of key economic importance;
c.    improve highway safety;
d.     strengthen DNER's management capabilities; and
e.     support DNER's highway research activities.
1.11.  The first two objectives were related to Brazil's macro-economy. The balance of payments
was an ambitious goal that was not monitored, however, during implementation. The second one
emphasized that rehabilitation must be geared towards highways of national economic importance.
Improved highway safety was a new objective for Bank financed projects in the subsector, while the
last two continued the efforts of earlier projects.
Components
1.12. As per the SAR (para. 4.02) and the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2), the components were:
Part A -      Highway Rehabilitation (US$383.9 million - 85.2% of total costs)
-      execution of high priority rehabilitation works (4,000 km5);
-      preparation of maintenance/rehabilitation engineering designs (an additional 4,000
km);
Part B -      Highway Safety (US$51.2 million - 11.4% of total cost)
-      analysis of accident "black spots" & detailed engineering for their improvement;
-      execution of approved road safety (black spot improvement) projects;
-      execution of a highway safety education program and public campaign;
-      acquisition of vehicles, communications equipment and speed measuring devices for
federal highway police;
-      execution of highway pavement markings;
Part C -      Training (US$10.2 million - 2.3% of total cost)
-      provision of training facilities for DNER;
This would have improved 38 % of the 10,500 km of federal highways identified as being in need of rehabilitation in DNER's 1979
highway inventory. DNER's own work program to this end was to rehabilitate 9,300 km.



- 4 -
-      establishment of Mobile Road Training Production Units and Mechanical Training
Production Units;
-      provision of highway maintenance and rehabilitation training for participating (state)
DERs;
-      provision of TA for Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program;
Part D -      Highway Research Program/Studies (US$5.3 million - 1.2% of total cost)
-      a highway research program in the areas of soils and materials, traffic and highway
safety, system development, and equipment productivity;
-      equipment for IPR to carry out highway research program;
-      overseas training for DNER technical staff;
-      a study of the major factors affecting diesel fuel consumption in Brazil;
Part E -      Pavement Management System (58 man-months of consultant services)
-      periodic inventory of the pavement status of the road network;
Part F -      Equipment Management System (156 man-months of cdnsultant services)
-      a review of DNER's mechanical fleet, definition of future needs, and guidelines for
future acquisitions.
1.13. The 1989 amendment of the Loan Agreement increased allocations to Part A (Highway
Rehabilitation) by about $41.7 million, using unused amounts from Parts C (Training) and D
(Highway Research Program/Studies).
D. Project Design and Organization
1.14. An early mention of this project in the files (October 1978) indicates that it was to be merely
an add-on operation to the Sixth Highway Project (Ln 1557-BR), with similar components. Later it
was changed into the first "sectoral loan" for the highway subsector in Brazil, with a clear and simple
conceptual foundation for financing DNER's priority investments that were acceptable to the Bank.
1.15. At appraisal, the Bank undertook, together with DNER teams, a detailed review of DNER's
1984-87 work program (SAR 3.01-3.07).6 Having endorsed its general approach, incorporating
increased rehabilitation at the expense of new construction (para. 4), preparation and appraisal
missions were able to identify the part of the program that would justify Bank support (SAR paras.
4.01 - 4.20). Some 85% was allocated for physical investment in highway rehabilitation. Specific
subprojects for financing would be chosen with the help of the HDM model. Annual performance
targets for implementation were agreed, and the first year program was agreed at appraisal.
1.16.  The size of the project, and hence the loan, was also partly determined by a "financing gap"
that needed to be closed for DNER's program to be implemented (SAR para. 3.07). The project's
scope and scale were thus quite appropriate as far as GOB's own plans for the highway subsector
were concerned.
' The coverage was increased to 19S9 when the loan closing date was extended to December 31 of that year.



-5-
1.17.  The task of preparing the project was aided by the considerable sectoral experience
accumulated by both DNER and the Bank.
1.18. For the organization of the project, DNER was wisely relied upon as an experienced
executing agency. Existing DNER directorates were assigned responsibility for particular
components, while the DNER's Highway Research Institute (IPR) was in charge of the training and
research programs. The process, already initiated, of a transfer of highway management
responsibilities to state DERs was to be continued.
1.19. Project design also incorporated regional development and environmental aspects. In the first
case, technical assistance was to be given to five DERs in the poorer Northeast region. In the second
case, special attention was given to evaluating the possible environmental impact of proposed
subprojects, especially the impact upon indigenous peoples.
1.20. According to DNER, the project design would have been improved if Bank financing of
routine maintenance had been made available (DNER-PCR p.32). While the absence of maintenance
certainly accelerated the deterioration of the federal highway network, its lprovision remains a basic
responsibility of GOB. In retrospect, the project design could have been improved, however, with
leverage on maintenance funding, which might have been done through disbursement conditionalities.
Of concern is the underlying dependency upon external funding implied by such a conclusion.
E. Proiect Implementation
1.21. For a large project with a substantial institution building component, project implementation
was expeditious. It was completed in six-and-a-half years, after one loan extension.
1.22.  Completion might have occurred sooner had it not been for severe budget cuts experienced by
DNER from 1985 on, forcing the curtailment of some of the agency's investment programs. Possible
inadequate counterpart funding had been recognized as a project risk at the time of appraisal (para.
4.40 of the SAR), but the degree and suddenness of the cuts could not have been reasonably foreseen.
Successive Bank supervision missions called attention to the problem which eased somewhat the
following year.
1.23. Lengthy processing of procurement (by both DNER and Bank) and the requirement, from
1986 on, of Environmental Impact Studies (EIS) of subprojects, also helped to decelerate the pace of
implementation. The Bank correctly recognized counterpart funding shortages as the principal threat
to the success of the project, however. In the case of EIS, environmental considerations taken into
account at the time of appraisal considerably diminished the risks of major delays.
1.24. Monitoring implementation was not an easy task for two very different reasons: First,
rampant (and unstable) inflation prevailed throughout the project execution period, which also
witnessed three separate currency units and three different stabilization plans. Evidently, this was
quite beyond the control of the project authorities.' Secondly, there were no clear monitoring
7   One consequence of inflation was the decline of the Bank's share of final project financing to 36 % (against an appraisal estimate of
47%) because of slow processing of rapidly devaluing cruzeiro denominated claims for reimbursement.



indicators and standards by which the performance of the various project components could be
judged. According to DNER, "It was as if the process of evaluation was over with the completion of
the detailed engineering" (DNER-PCR p.39).
1.25. In retrospect, and with the benefit of hindsight, agreement on clear monitoring indicators and
targets would not only have made the management of project implementation an easier task, it would
also have enabled the Bank to supervise project implementation more effectively.
1.26.  Repeating the experience of many other sectors, implementation of the project's physical
components proceeded more smoothly than the implementation of the institutional components. By
completion, 92.6% of total project costs was incurred through highway rehabilitation, against an 85%
original appraisal target, which was later revised upward through a June 1988 Amendment to the
Loan Agreement.
F. Proiect Results
1.27.  Despite the expeditious implementation of the project, it is difficult to judge its success
without more specific information. Thus, Brazil's balance of payments on the oil account did
improve during the implementation of the project, but this result was probably more likely due to
increased domestic oil production, which rose from 461 to 630 barrels per day between 1984 and
1990. With this, the imported share of total energy consumption fell from 60.3% to 45.3% over the
s,ame period (BCB Boletim Mensal Table 2.1.4). The project's contribution towards these results has
not been quantified.
1.28.  With regard to diesel consumption which was highlighted as a major issue during appraisal
(SAR paras. 1.11-1.12; and 2.12-2.15), there was little project follow-up.8 Total energy
consumption (gasoline, diesel and alcohol fuels) in Brazil rose, in fact, from 1,059 thousand barrels
equivalent per day in 1984 to 1,368 thousand per day by 1990. This represents an annual increase of
4.4%, against an annual GDP growth of only 0.9% over the period, a disappointing result in terms of
energy efficiency of output (Ibid.). The ratio of diesel to gasoline consumption, which had been
1:2.4 in 1984, fell slightly, however, to 1:2.3 by 1990. Again, thorough project monitoring would
have been necessary to assess the contribution of the project to these results.
1.29.  The second main project objective of rehabilitating roads in export corridors was achieved.
Physical targets were exceeded (para. 1.34). Again, monitoring studies showing which corridors
were benefitted and how the cost of exporting was affected could have revealed more clearly the
economic impact of the project.
1.30.  The impact of the project on highway safety was not quantified due to the lack of follow-up
studies and monitoring (DNER-PCR pp. 35-36).
1.31. With regard to the fourth objective of improving DNER's management capabilities, some
progress was achieved through the introduction of new management practices and the training of
Work on diesel consumptionwas confined to a US$33,000 study undertaken by GOB's Economic and Social Research Institute, IPEA,
whose results had little impact upon DNER.



DNER staff. Finally, of great importance, highway research activities were re-activated by the
project.
1.32.  There was no explicit revision of project objectives. Nevertheless, it is clear, on hindsight,
that during supervision, more attention was given to implementation issues, such as counterpart
funding and procurement, than to monitoring the achievement of objectives. Also, in retrospect, a
periodic review of the performance of DNER's program as a whole, in terms of the original
objectives, would have been illuminating and adequate, given the "sectoral" nature of the loan.
1.33.  Ex-ante evaluations of the rehabilitation projects indicated economic rates of return in the
21 % to 124% range (DNER-PCR p. 48). Unfortunately, no ex-post re-calculations of these specific
rates was made to confirm the performance of the investments. However, since: (i) highway traffic
has grown in line with ex-ante assumption; (ii) the cost of operating vehicles in Brazil has increased
substantially after the project execution period; and (iii) project costs have been contained within the
original estimates, any ex-post analysis would likely indicate similar or better rates of return overall.
It is disappointing, however, that the ex-ante calculations were regarded merely as an obstacle to be
overcome in order for a sub-project to be approved. This meant, as with4many other operations in
other sectors, that cost-benefit analysis did not become an effective management tool for measuring
the actual performance of the investments made.
1.34.  Part A: Highwav Rehabilitation. The physical target of rehabilitating 4,000 km was
exceeded by 868 km (or 21.7% of the planned total), due to reallocation of project funds following
the June 1988 Loan Agreement Amendment. Also, engineering designs for the rehabilitation of a
further 5,053 km were completed (1,053 km more than targeted). In spite of this, however, the
overall condition of the federal highway network continued to deteriorate over the period from 1984-
90 due to insufficient rehabilitation and maintenance.9
1.35. The procurement of works was generally satisfactory (DNER-PCR p.60). Through inflation
adjustment factors, however, actual contract prices per kilometer of highway rose above the bid
average of about US$74,900 to about US$78,700 actually charged (DNER-PCR p. 62). On the
average, project supervision and engineering designs accounted for 6.1 % and 1.8 % of the total
project cost, respectively (DNER-PCR p. 63). For supervision, this was twice the 3 % target
currently agreed with the Bank under the ongoing Highways Maintenance and Rehabilitation Proiect
(Ln 3169-BR).
1.36.  Part B: Highway Safety. Results under this component are difficult to judge since
improvements made to accident "black spots" were included under general rehabilitation works.
Also, the component for strengthening the highway police by providing it with adequate equipment
was not implemented; since the Bank could not agree to Brazil's proposed procurement arrangements
which required alcohol powered vehicles that could not be provided by foreign suppliers. More
progress was made with pavement marking and striping exceeding the 20,000 km target by 39.5%,
but this was again considered by DNER to be a routine activity, and not specifically a highway safety
measure.
Thus, by 1989, 29% (or 17,600 kIm) of the federal highway system was classified as being in bad condition, compared with 28% (or
12,140 km) in 1984. On the other hand the proportion in good condition rose from 31% (or 13,440 km) in 1984 to 36% (or 17,870
kim) in 1989 (DNER PCR p. 14).



- 8 -
1.37. With the lack of explicit monitoring (DNER-PCR pp. 35-36), the results of this component
are at best unknown or, at worst, disappointing. Given the 1,800 "black spots" identified and Brazil's
disturbing highway accident record"0, it is hoped that highway safety measures and campaigns,
which were important on DNER's agenda prior to 1981, can be reactivated.
1.38.  Part C: Training. Although less than half of the 3,642 planned staff were trained under the
project, important on-the-job prograrns were instigated for workmen. Training centers, established in
the Northeastern states of Pernambuco and Rio Grande do Norte, continue to implement these
programs, using their own resources. Part of the success in fostering a "training mentality" within
the respective DERs can be attributed to the use of consultants, who are indispensable for the success
of this component. Another key stimulus was 100% Bank financing. Overseas scholarships, foreseen
under the project, were not awarded, partly as the result of GOB travel restrictions, but also due to
bureaucratic uncertainty as to how the program should be administered and financed in Brazil.
1.39. Part D: Research. A number of research projects were completed including: (a) development
of new clay materials as a base aggregate; (b) elaboration of a micro-computer simulation model for
optimizing rigid and flexible pavements; (c) technical manual on highway drainage; (d) rehabilitation
of IPR's experimental circular track; and (e) research into Pavement Management System (PMS)
methodology and data processing. According to DNER, however, the effectiveness of these research
projects was hampered by: (i) poor remuneration, forcing consultant firms to frequently substitute key
researchers on their staffs; (ii) lack of resources for travel and per diem; and (iii) weak linkage
between DNER's sectoral directorates and the research activities (DNER-PCR pp. 118-120). IPR
was, however, strengthened by supervising the program, although the practical application of the
various research findings is not assessed.
1.40.  Part E: Pavement Management System. A Permanent Commission for Pavement
Management was established by DNER in April 1984 as a direct result of the project. It led to a
computerized data base of pavement conditions on 4,000 homogeneous sections of Federal network.
This allowed DNER to utilize the HDM model for evaluating maintenance strategies. But the
database needs to be reorganized to provide an adequate representation of the pavement conditions for
network management purpose. The PMS is being redeveloped, improved and updated under the
ongoing Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Ln 3169-BR).
1.41. Part F: Equipment Management System. Results were limited due to: (i) the massive
nationwide inventory; and (ii) the increasing trend of contracting out maintenance to the private sector
in Brazil. The latter was stimulated by the project, since, due to obsolescence, only 46% of DNER's
maintenance equipment was found to be usable (DNER-PCR p. 134).
G.  Project Sustainability
1.42.  As already mentioned, funding for routine highway maintenance in Brazil was scarce.
Moreover, contractors reputedly showed little interest in this kind of work, preferring the more
capital-intensive reconstruction as found in rehabilitation contracts. However, without appropriate
'°   A visiting Bank highway safety expert observed dryly during supervision in October 1987 that Brazilian cars are ten times more likely
to kill somebody that a car in the USA or Japan.



-9-
programming and timely execution of periodic and routine maintenance, the federal highway network
will continue to deteriorate. With that deterioration comes the real risk that project investments will
be unable to sustain an acceptable flow of benefits throughout their intended economic life. This
issue is being addressed under the ongoing Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project
(Ln 3169-BR), through increasing funding for maintenance, strengthening DNER's PMS, and through
preparing projects which encompass all maintenance activities required on entire routes.
H. Bank Performance
1.43.  From its previous experience with the highways sub-sector in Brazil, the Bank was able to
bring considerable expertise to the project. Preparation and appraisal was expeditious, leading to a
simple project design that was conducive to implementation. Supervision missions were fielded
regularly, and were able to provide on-the-spot technical assistance to DNER, notably in the fields of
traffic engineering, pavement management, and environmental impact. On the other hand, DNER
reported that supervision missions were generally too brief and had overcrowded agendas, which
impeded the fine tuning of the project's management capability. (DNER-PCR pp. 32-33).
I. Performance of DNER
1.44. This must be reviewed in light of the long-term decline of the financial position of DNER.
Until 1978, the agency was financially independent and sustained by revenues of a national road fund.
When this was discontinued, successive attempts to restore earmarked funding failed, forcing the
agency to rely on uncertain federal budget allocations." DNER's budgeted capital investment for
1990 was barely one-fifth of the nearly one billion US dollar investment of 1978 (DNER Annual
Report 1990). The risk of an inadequate DNER budget was correctly recognized as a serious project
risk at appraisal (SAR para. 4.40). The financial crisis affecting DNER at the end of 1988 led to
works being paralyzed (DNER PCR para. 1.2.1.4).
1.45. The agency also shrank considerably and moved from Rio de Janeiro to Brasilia in 1990. At
its peak in 1975, DNER had a staff of some 35,000. Excluding the number of highway police who
were administratively transferred to the Justice Ministry, the current DNER staff is less than one third
of that number.
1.46. Against this backdrop, and with the exception of counterpart fund mobilization, DNER
managed the project well. Its long experience with the highway subsector helped to ensure the
prompt preparation and appraisal of the project. Implementation management was satisfactory,
considering that a sectoral loan with an important institution-building element is more complex to
administer than the earlier construction projects. Until the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR),
the project management team in DNER consisted of only six staff members with consultant support
(DNER-PCR p. 37). The implementation of the various components of this project was managed by
I   The collection of a 'Taxa de Conservajio Rodoviifia' approved by the Congress as Law No. 8,155 of 28 December 1990,
which should provide resources for the rehabilitation of some 5,000 im of federal highways per annum, is uncertain since the
'taxa' was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court.



- 10 -
the respective departments of DNER, under the coordination of a Project Coordinator assisted by a
consulting firm.
1.47.  One of DNER's recommendations arising from this project was that a special external project
department should be established to handle projects funded through foreign financing (DNER-PCR p.
42). While efforts to strengthen the management of multilateral lending are worthwhile, the extent to
which these are treated as special cases to be isolated from the mainstream of the institution can defeat
the institution-building purpose of the operation itself. The fact that an agency feels that it must
reorganize itself simply to manage Bank loans also indicates a degree of dependence that challenges
the development goals of graduating off executing agencies from concessional lending.
1.48. Another concern raised by DNER was the lack of involvement of its top management in
discussions with Bank missions (DNER-PCR p. 33). In retrospect, their greater familiarity with
project details might have helped ease the budgetary difficulties that it faced.
J. Project Relationship
1.49. The relationship between Bank missions and local project teams was good. Its strength
derived from the mutual respect shared by teams experienced on both sides, in addition to the quality
of professional dialogue enjoyed by all participants.
1.50. The relationship between DNER, the state DERs, and the Bank, was praiseworthy.
K. Contractors and Consulting Services
1.51. Some 100 contracting firms (amnong the 400 listed by DNER) participated in the Highway
Rehabilitation component (Part A). On the whole, they performed satisfactorily and delivered work
of a high standard. A major problem, however, was that many of them altered engineering designs
based on criteria that generally raised standards and increased costs (DNER-PCR p.40). On the other
hand, the majority of the contractors were very patient with the unstable flow of financial resources
from DNER to pay their contracts.
1.52.  In general, consultants performed well under the project. Those responsible for detailed
engineering designs, however, did not insist enough that they be respected by contractors during
supervision. The work contracts generally made it easy for contractors to overrule the supervisory
consultants when it came to design changes. According to DNER, nevertheless, supervisory
consultants endorsed proposed design modifications too easily. (DNER-PCR p. 41).
1.53.  In connection with other components, the performance of consultants was mostly satisfactory.
Their contribution was crucial in the case of the training program and they were also responsible for
most of the results obtained from the project's research program.



- 11 -
L. Project Documentation and Data
1.54.  The Loan Agreement for the project was straightforward, clarifying all legal obligations on
the part of DNER and the Bank. The implementation data available for project evaluation was
extensive, with the exception of the traffic data needed for economic re-evaluations. DNER itself
prepared a very extensive and thorough PCR, key sections of which are translated and included as
Part II of this report.
M. Lessons From the Experience
1.55.  Project design should incorporate monitoring indicators and set standards to measure the
progress of an operation towards fulfilling its objectives. In this case, although key macroeconomic
objectives, notably improved balance of payments through fuel savings, and increased efficiency of
export corridors, were formulated, it was not possible to gauge the contribution of the project to such
objectives, for lack of an appropriate monitoring system.         ^
1.56.  Borrower preference, as expressed by resource allocation, was clearly for physical
investments. Financing for technical assistance, studies, and training took second place. In the words
of a DNER spokesperson, "Highway administrators have lacked due sensitivity to the fact that a
minimum of resources not spent on the implementation of a few kilometers of works, would allow
significant results to be obtained in other areas of highway activity" (DNER-PCR p.35). Therefore, it
is important to introduce covenants which clearly set conditions for Bank funding of physical
infrastructure upon progress on the institutional elements of projects.
1.57.  The overall deterioration of the federal highway network, in spite of the physical
achievements of the project, points to two things: (i) the need for routine maintenance, and (ii) the
need to design road pavements for the actual use of traffic, including heavy axle loads. Lack of
maintenance shortens the economic life of physical investments, lowers the economic rate of return,
and incurs premature replacement costs.
1.58.  In view of the mixed performance of PMS, it is still necessary to develop a reliable and
practical methodology to provide an objective assessment of maintenance needs and guide programs of
maintenance works, a key element of which is a reliable and dynamic, i.e. regularly updated,
information system.






- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Selected Sections of DNER's PCR, translated from Portuguese)
A. Achievement of Project Goals and Objectives
Summary of Results
2.1    Although affected by some of the same shortcomings as earlier ventures in this sector, of the
nine DNER highway projects financed by the World Bank, Loan No. 2446-DR was the one that
produced the best results, from various standpoints. Despite a series of difficulties,'2 mainly in 1985
and from 1988 onwards, which had serious economic repercussions on the country's economic
position and therefore on the regularity with which loan counterpart resources were made available,
nearly all project goals were achieved. This was possible thanks to: (i) careful preparation of the
project by the Bank and DNER on the basis of previous sector experience; (ii) motivation on the part
of the DNER technical team to keep strictly to the timetable set in the Loin Agreement; and (iii)
continuous monitoring of the project by the Bank, mainly through its supervision missions, and by
DNER, through its Financing Coordination Unit, with assistance from the consulting firm SISCON.
2.2    Data summaries now follow on project costs, execution periods, terms of amendment, and
financial, physical, institutional and management goals and achievements.
Proiect Costs
2.3    As indicated in Table 1.2.1, the final cost (DNER + IBRD) of the project investment
program was US$562.2 million, compared to the original estimate of US$449.5 million. The Bank's
contribution was a final US$204.6 million or 36%, considerably lower than the 47% figure expected.
This cost was measured in terms of works and services billed at initial prices, utilizing the US$/Cz$
exchange rates in force on bid dates. The criterion of initial prices is used by DNER as a reference
instrument for tracking physical quantities in different units, and, by extension, the financial status of
contracts. Bank participation is measured as the value of the invoices paid by DNER at initial prices
plus monthly adjustments, multiplied by the financing percentage applicable to each component (on
average, the 47% referred to above), and submitted to the Central Bank for reimbursement. On this
basis, invoice value (initial prices + adjustment) was US$446.8 million, compared to the original
estimate of US$449.5 million.
2.4    The difference between the figures obtained by the two methods is ascribable to: (i) delays in
the settlement of invoices, with no monetary correction for the period between presentation of
invoices and settlement by DNER; (ii) the difference between the variation in adjustment indexes and
in the exchange rate; (iii) the fact that certain expenditures provided for in the Loan Agreement were
not identified as reimbursable by the Bank but were instead met in full from DNER's own funds.
2.5    The loss of value on invoices awaiting payment, a consequence of inflation and a significant
part of the difference between billings at initial prices (US$562.2 million) and project disbursements
12  Implementation of a series of Government economic plans, with paralyzation of investment activities for long periods, and formulation
and promuleation of a new Constitution.



- 13 -
(US$446.8 million), is normally absorbed by contracting firms. Obviously, their original prices
include provision for financial costs associated with delays in payment, meaning that there is a
considerable loading on the cost of highway works and services. At the end of 1989, in order to
avoid this cost loading, DNER adopted a series of measures to accelerate the invoice payment
process, while including in new contracts a monetary correction factor to offset delays in payment.
Loan Amendment Terms
2.6    Unlike other Bank loans, which may be amended a number of times, IBRD VII was the
subject of only one amendment (January 21, 1988). This was concerned with: (i) reallocation of loan
proceeds between project expenditure categories, through transfers from categories under which
allocations were unlikely to be fully disbursed before the project closing date to others under which
expenditure was moving faster; and (ii) pro rata distribution of unallocated proceeds (US$16.4
million) among the various categories. However, the anticipated results of this rearrangement were
never fully achieved, since DNER funding was again restricted in 1988, leading to a complete halt of
its investment program at the end of that year and during the following 12 months.
2.7    Again for the purpose of reapportioning loan proceeds, in this case the US$15 million
deposited in the Special Account, a final reallocation was made in the second half of 1989, formally
agreed to by the Bank, without an amendment, on December 26 of that year. In order to avoid the
need for a new amendment, a minimum resource limit was maintained for particular expenditure
categories, even though it was clear the expenditures covered were unlikely to reach that limit.
Despite the small loading it caused against the balance remaining on completion of the project, this
procedure was necessary to avoid the further extension of the project period that the bureaucratic
processes associated with an amendment would have required.
Project Execution Period
2.8    Only one extension of the loan period was requested by DNER and agreed to by the World
Bank, on June 27, 1989. Worsening of the crisis which began in September 1988 and continued in
1989 forced DNER to request this postponement of the closing date from June 20 to December 31,
1990.
2.9    Project duration was thus five years and five months from the date of signature of the Loan
Agreement, July 30, 1984. However, the actual period was shorter, as the effective date of the loan
was November 30, 1984, In any event, IBRD VII results in terms of time taken to complete the
project were highly satisfactory, particularly compared to Loans 1075-BR (IBRD V) and 1557-BR
(IBRD VI), which took 10 years (January 1975/January 1985) and eight years (May 1978/January
1986) respectively to reach completion, although both had a much smaller range of activities than
IBRD VII.
2.10   On this score, it may be noted that new Bank's rules allow four additional months (instead of
the six given previously) beyond the completion date for processing invoices related to project works
and services. Thus, in the present case, the closing date for Bank disbursements was April 30,1990.



- 14 -
Financial Goals
2.11   Despite the economic difficulties that arose during the project period, and after the internal
allocation of resources among project expenditure categories was altered, 97% of financing was
disbursed, an excellent result in terms of achievement of overall financial goals. The undisbursed
loan balance, canceled by the World Bank on October 15, 1990, was US$5.3 million, its existence
mainly ascribable to the funding crisis of late 1988 and the ensuing paralyzation of DNER works.
2.12   In termns of disbursement of loan proceeds, project financial implementation progressed
steadily. Table 1.2.2, which traces that progress, indicates that disbursement went ahead
satisfactorily until the 1988 third quarter or, in other terms, that by the end of 1987, with only two
years left until project completion, approximately US$154 million, or 73% of loan proceeds, had
already been disbursed.
2.13   In terms of financial goals for individual project components, some were not achieved,
although for justifiable reasons except in the case of civil works to eliminate black spots, where
administrative shortcomings, exacerbated by inadequate allocation of counterpa,rt resources, meant that
planned financial goals were a long way from being achieved.
Physical Goals
2.14   At the project midpoint, virtually all physical investment goals set in the Loan Agreement had
been reached. Elimination of black spots apart, the other two major physical goals for the project
(highway rehabilitation and highway signalization) were exceeded. One of the contributing factors
here was the January 1988 amendment.
2.15   Despite these good physical results, it must be noted that the Government's Highway
Rehabilitation Program, of which the project formed part, did not achieve its objective. Although it
led to rehabilitation of a total of 12,893 km of highways'3 during the 1985-1989 period (double the
total of 6,429 km rehabilitated over the previous six years), this effort failed to reduce the percentage
of paved highways in poor repair, as may be seen from the following figures on highway conditions
at the beginning and on completion of the project:
Condition of Federal Paved Highway System (in km)
1984                 1989
Good                        13,440 (31%)         17,870 (36%)
Average                     17,775 (41%)         17,030 (35%)
Poor                        12.140 (28%)         17.600 (29%)
Total                     43,350 (100%)         49,500 (100%)
2.16   Obviously, without this effort, brought to a virtual halt in 1989, the condition of the highway
system would have been much more critical at the time the project was completed. In any event, the
'   Of this total, the project financed 4,878 km.



- 15 -
important thing now is not to dwell on the failure of the joint Government/IBRD attempt to improve
the condition of the country's paved system, but to focus on the future steps needed to eliminate the
causes of its deterioration, all of them easily identifiable. Apart from a chronic lack of funding, the
causes were: (i) almost total neglect of maintenance, usually not financed by the Bank; (ii) still limited
levels of investment in rehabilitation, at least to eliminate the considerable percentage (29% in 1989)
of the paved system in poor repair; and (iii) unsuccessful attempts to police axle loads (the
Weighbridge Program) and thus avoid premature pavement deterioration.
2.17   That failure and understanding of the reasons for it have already had a positive impact, visible
in the measures the Government is taking through the newly organized DNER. For instance, since
mid 1990 DNER has emphasized intensive maintenance to curtail deterioration of the federal network,
while at the same time seeking a funding policy that strikes a better balance between maintenance and
rehabilitation. This program now in its first phase, with its second phase to be the subject of a World
Bank loan, in fact provides an excellent means of promoting that type of balance, by funding contract
maintenance, not previously regarded as feasible. In addition, the public relations effort associated
with the program, by raising the alert regarding the critical situation of the highway system, created
awareness in government and political circles and among the public at large of the need for a
permanent, reliable source of funds for preservation of the country's highway assets.
2.18 This awareness eventually led the National Congress to approve the Government's Bill (Law #
8,255 of December 28, 1990) replacing the former toll stamp with a highway maintenance tax
payable on fuel prices and earmarked for the National Highway Fund. The Government anticipates
that the proceeds of this tax (collection to begin in March 1991; quarterly adjustments matching
changes in highway maintenance costs) will generate approximately US$1.1 billion annually, to be
used for rehabilitation of 5,000 km of paved highways annually and for maintenance of the federal
network covered by the new National Highway Plan (roughly 66,000 km). Part of the proceeds will
be allocated for elimination of black spots, installation of weigh stations, and pavement management.
In order to facilitate collection, the tax will be levied at different rates on different fuels (alcohol,
gasoline, diesel oil) and will be paid at service stations each time a vehicle is refueled.
Institutional and Environmental Goals
2.19  Included for the first time in a Bank loan to DNER, project institutional goals were adequately
met. In fact, they were incorporated into the IBRD VII Loan Agreement some two years after
commencement of the project, as pre-conditions for IBRD VIII (Highway Management and
Rehabilitation Project 3169-BR), then in preparation and now on the point of being signed. Most of
these institutional goals were formulated through a series of studies on modernization of the highway
sector, reorganization of DNER, redefinition of the federal highway network, and environmental
standards and specifications. Although original performance targets were met, the final objectives
sought through some of these institutional measures could not be attained in practice. Circumstances
external to DNER, for instance high staff turnover in both federal and state government departments,
drafting and promulgation of a new Constitution during the project period, as well as certain internal
bureaucratic shortcomings presented obstacles to their full achievement. It is to be hoped that the
administrative reforms the Federal Government has been introducing since 1990 will result in
institutional improvements in the sector in the medium term.
2.20   On the other hand, it may well be the case that the results of institutional actions need more
time to mature, given the natural impediments to their implementation. Nevertheless, some already



- 16 -
evident results may be ascribed to IBRD VII, namely: (i) formulation and preparation of PNMRE, the
National Program of State Highway Maintenance (subcomponent of the sector modernization study),
which is the subject of a new Bank loan currently in negotiation; as part of PNMRE preparation,
several DERs, with DNER guidance, have drawn up programs for funding under this loan, processing
of which depends only on whether the guarantee of the Federal Government is forthcoming; (ii)
redefinition of the federal highway network of the National Transport Plan, an exercise proposed by
DNER to the former Ministry of Transport following a technical study of possible options, and now
ready for submission by the present Ministry of Infrastructure to the National Congress.
2.21   In the environmental arena, guidelines, standards and specifications were developed for the
highway sector. The next step is their distribution to and discussion by highway entities and
environmentalists.  These materials also have potential as the basis of a comprehensive training
project in highway environmental concerns for DNER and DER personnel, a matter taken into
account in the Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (IBRD VIII) already mentioned.
Management Goals
2.22   On the technical side, management targets enumerated in the Loan Agreement may be
regarded as achieved. However, progress on the administrative side was limited, partly because
DNER executives lacked will and decisiveness in implementing measures that would facilitate better
management of the agency's activities.
2.23   Strengthening of DNER's capabilities in planning management, the project's chief
management objective, was almost totally neglected as a consequence of the priority the agency
assigned to the study on its own reorganization. Actually, strengthening of this type would have
helped make the findings of that study, and the ensuing recommendations, considerably more rational
and realistic.
2.24   The Permanent Committee for Pavement Management did notable work in developing
methods, novel in Brazilian highway circles, by which the agency could implement a pavement
management system (PMS). However, despite the backing of PMS priorities received from top
management, implementation was seriously undermined by lack of financial support. A relatively
insignificant allocation for per diems and travel costs would have allowed greater frequency and
flexibility of field survey work, and ensured that it was of higher quality and adequately supervised
by the Permanent Committee.
2.25  In the arena of equipment management, despite the technical steps completed toward DNER's
adoption of an equipment management system, the process of introducing it was brought to an abrupt
halt by administrative problems. The system developed (with technical assistance from consultants)
was designed to improve returns on the capital invested in DNER equipment and machine shops, and
to provide a means of evaluating the necessary operation and maintenance support structure. An
extensive survey was conducted to assess the physical condition of agency vehicles, equipment, plant,
and machine shops, and identify all government workers engaged in operation and maintenance
functions. Using survey findings, a diagnostic study was then made to identify possible action plans
to improve equipment management, one of which was selected by the agency to be implemented in
stages. However, implementation was soon brought to a halt owing to administrative difficulties
encountered in transferring personnel between operations districts and recruiting new workers.



- 17 -
2.26   Finally, one instance of fully successful management action may be mentioned: preparation
of the already mentioned National Prograrn of State Highway Maintenance (PNMRE). Coordinated
by a DNER management team with Bank-mandated assistance from specialized consultants, this work
enabled a number of State Highway Departments (DERs) to prepare their own full-scale institutional
and maintenance programs for inclusion in a forthcoming highway loan for the improvement of state
networks.
2.27  It is of interest to note that, as formulated by the Bank and DNER, the PNMRE would
introduce a novel type of decentralized loan under which the proceeds of an external credit would be
onlent directly to the decentralized units taking part in the program. As with the entire preparatory
process, including formulation of program technical and administrative guidelines, it will be up to
DNER, as the managerial and technical coordinating agency, to assist the DERs with their own
development. This future managerial instrument will strengthen DNER's role as the central planning
agency for the federal highway system.
B. Evaluation of Bank and DNER Perforrnance
2.28   A series of brief commentaries is now given on World Bank and DNER performance in
preparing and implementing the project, and on contracting and consulting firm performance in
executing it. Any criticisms, which reflect the judgment of DNER's Financing Coordination Unit
alone, are intended principally to be constructive and concerned only with the improvement of future
Bank loans to DNER.
World Bank Performance
(a)    Lack of funding for maintenance
2.29   As previously noted, the Bank took great pains with the preparation of this project, a process
which culminated in the dispatch of a mission consisting of five of its representatives, specialists in the
different areas of project activity. The only observation to be made here does not concern the
performance of project preparation missions but the policy followed by the Bank at that time. The
point at issue is the Bank's refusal, despite insistent requests, chiefly from DNER's Financing
Coordination Unit, that the loan include funding for a preventive maintenance program for some 3,000
km of paved highways. The chief concerns underlying these requests were to enhance maintenance
operations and to strike a relative balance between allocations to maintenance and to rehabilitation, the
latter being the highest project priority, in both physical investment and financial terms.
2.30  In its loans to DNER, the Bank had always sought to improve maintenance services through
its loan conditions, technical assistance, research, and training. However, previous experience clearly
indicated that, given the importance of the programs financed by the Bank, more direct and significant
Bank financial participation in maintenance would counteract the history of neglect in this area,
chiefly the result of the high priority assigned by both Government and Bank to rehabilitation works.
The funding initially requested for investment in maintenance would certainly have precluded the
comparative lack of success of the project rehabilitation program, as already noted above.
2.31   Fortunately, Bank policy in this regard is already changing, since its loans now include
allocations for contract maintenance, as has become clear in the negotiations for the Highway



- 18 -
Management and Rehabilitation Project (IBRD VIII), and in the National Program of State Highway
Maintenance (PNMRE) incorporated in another loan.
(b)    Insufficient technical assistance
2.32   The Bank monitored project implementation mainly through its supervision missions, at times
assisted by experts in such specialized fields as transport engineering, pavement management,
environmental protection, etc. However, perhaps for structural reasons internal to the Bank, technical
assistance of this sort was not as frequent or as continuous as would have been advisable; not only
would a more discerning assessment of the performance of the various DNER Departments involved
have been possible, but also discussions with DNER technical staff might have led to changes in the
emphasis of some project components. The research and training arenas, for instance, benefited more
from this type of interchange with Bank specialists, as noted in Parts 2.3 and 2.4 of this Report.
DNER Performance
(a)    Insufricient involvement of DNER top management
2.33   Generally speaking, DNER top management was only cursorily involved in the project
preparation discussions between Bank and DNER technical staff that culminated in formulation of the
project for negotiation. Closer acquaintance with the project proposal and the premises on which it
was based would have facilitated and increased the efficacy of the subsequent decision-making
process, especially as regards the best allocation of counterpart resources to the various project
components. For instance, annual budgets, the formulation of which was centralized in the Executive
Directorate of DNER, did not always clearly include or identify the counterpart, or even the
operating, funds required for execution of certain project subcomponents regarded by the DNER
authorities as being of only secondary importance.
(b)    Lack of detail on foreign training program
2.34   More specifically, mention can be made of the lack of minimum details on training abroad,
the main reason for non-utilization of the loan proceeds allocated for this purpose. In view of the
Government's usual restrictions on foreign travel, this item, which is becoming increasingly important
as the country endeavors to update its technology, merits more detailed definition and planning in
future projects, where greater emphasis should be given to the scheduling of such training in the
Bank's Appraisal Reports. This would provide the basis for obtaining firm commitment from the
Federal Government to training programs, since, in the final instance, it is the Government which
authorizes civil servants to absent themselves from the country.
(c)    Slow progress with some components
2.35   At top management level, DNER performance in the conduct of the project suffered from the
same shortcoming as earlier loans, namely the lack of political will and decision to provide for the
proper execution of project components which require only minor funding, or none at all under the
terms of the particular loan, and which normally generate no physically measurable results: for
example, highway safety programs, training, management systems, planning, maintenance, etc.



- 19 -
2.36   Despite the low capital and operating costs of such components, progress with their
implementation has always been very slow. This is the opposite of what occurs with physical
investment components that require major funding, such as, in the present case, the highway
rehabilitation and pavement marking programs.
2.37   It is well known what difficulties surround the allocation and release of budget funds.
However, when they are finally made available, and they are usually less than what DNER actually
needs, it always chooses to channel them entirely into civil works programs. In this regard, the
highway authorities are not farsighted enough to realize that a small percentage of funding not spent
on a few kilometers of works would be sufficient to finance significant achievements in other areas of
highway activity.
2.38   This manner of proceeding reflects a serious degree of unawareness in DNER of the real
purposes of external borrowing. In addition to providing funding for segments of its investment
programs, loans have another, more exalted purpose, which is to support and assist it in strengthening
its activities and organization. The final objective of such actions is to enable the most to be
obtained, in both technical and economic terms, from investment programs and from sound
administration of the resources channeled into them. In other words, and this should be regarded as
its major merit, DNER borrowing is designed to lead to greater rationality in technical and
administrative procedures and to development of more modern institutional and management
practices.
(d)    Lack of indicators for evaluatin! project achievements
2.39   This shortcoming, already noted in connection with other loans, takes on added importance in
the case of IBRD VII, given the larger scale of the activities involved in it. Despite the resulting
physical and financial achievements, an objective evaluation of their real impact is very difficult. For
instance, it is impossible to ascertain: what actual impact the highway safety program had in reducing
the number and seriousness of road accidents; what practical application research findings had; what
validity the results of studies on diesel fuel consumption and the road user tax had; what practical use
the video recording system had; etc. To eliminate this shortcoming, DNER and the Bank would have
to join forces to establish indicators for the continuous monitoring of the qualitative contribution of all
project components. The use of such indicators would provide a means of making adjustments in the
execution of project components, in addition to generating reference materials for subsequent
evaluations of the project, another question which DNER has more or less neglected.
(e)    Inadequate project management
2.40   The matters raised in the preceding subsection need to be viewed in a much broader context,
namely that of the need for sound management of external loans. So far, such management has been
limited to: (i) advising top executives on loan-related matters; (ii) monitoring project execution,
including compliance by Sector Directorates with physical/financial execution schedules and Loan
Agreement requirements; (iii) financial monitoring of disbursements, for purposes of project status
reports; (iv) preparations for and participation in Bank missions; (v) necessary contacts with other
government departments and agencies involved in the loans; (vi) preparation and issue of proposals,
progress reports and mission aide-memoires; and (vii) centralization, translation and dissemination of
project-related documents and other materials.



- 20 -
2.41   These tasks were attended to by a Coordinator of Financing answerable to the Executive
Director and supported by the other DNER departments. Obviously, the monitoring referred to in
point (ii) of the above paragraph was carried out directly by the units responsible for the different
project components. As already noted, this monitoring, which materialized as quarterly progress
reports, was one of the factors accounting for the comparative success of IBRD VII. However,
monitoring results themselves are not subject to the type of evaluation likely to lead to improvements
or adjustments in project execution methods. Even with its own small team, supplemented by the
services of a consulting firm (under contract to the Directorate of Maintenance to assist it with the
rehabilitation program), the Financing Coordination Unit is not in a position organizationally or
functionally to carry out the kinds of additional task which make for effective loan management.
Paradoxically, under earlier Bank loans up to and including IBRD V (Fifth Highways Project), which
involved other components besides new construction works, the task of coordination within DNER
was the responsibility of a team of three assistants to the Director-General, which had access to the
advice of three economists and various technical specialists attached to the foreign firm
INGEROUTE.
2.42   At the present time, in addition to the fact that various loans may be going through the
preparation, negotiation, execution and ex-post evaluation stages simultaneously, the range of their
activities is much broader than under earlier loans, and involves not only managerial and institutional
matters but also technical questions arising in all areas of highway activity (e.g. planning,
maintenance and highway safety, research and training). Because of their scope nowadays, loans
need not only to be coordinated but also to be managed effectively, a fact that warrants the existence
of a Planning and Control Unit which, unlike the present Financing Coordination Unit, takes over
some of the loan-related functions exercised by the Financial Department. This would pave the way
for more complete financial monitoring of the utilization of counterpart resources, both external and
local.
2.43   In addition, quite apart from the conditionalities and increasing complexities of loans
nowadays, creation of a loan-management system with its own staff team is further warranted by the
fact that the deficiencies and shortcomings in some loan components can be ascribed in part to the
lack of a system founded on a broader concept of project management. In addition to ensuring the
efficiency of projects carried out with external funding, such a system would also guarantee the
greater overall efficiency of DNER itself once it extended to the actions which are carried out at the
agency's various decision levels.
(f)    Lack of a continuous project evaluation process
2.44   The process by which the components of a project are managed should include mechanisms
that not only measure its degree of effectiveness and efficiency but which also incorporate this
information into DNER's own managerial and operational processes. In the broadest sense,
evaluation should be understood here as the element in management which serves as the foundation
for decision-making guidelines applicable to all the stages of a project, that is,
identification/preparation, execution and, finally, operation.
2.45   Without any such management basis, DNER finds itself limited, where external loans are
concerned, to: (i) ex-ante appraisal, carried out in conjunction with the Bank, and consisting of
scrutiny of the design of the project (priority ranking of its objectives, its technical and financial
feasibil.y, superficial assessment of its economic rate of return); and (ii) preparation of the



- 21 -
contractually required Project Completion Report, which is not actually an ex-post evaluation, since
its purpose is to determine to what extent project objectives have been achieved and to pinpoint the
causes of any shortcomings so that they can be corrected in future loans.
2.46   As regards evaluations during the course of project execution, their purpose being to
determine whether there is any need to adjust or radically change the original plans, virtually nothing
is done. Finally, as though the lending process came to an end on the project closing date, neither
does DNER conduct subsequent periodic evaluations, whereas the Bank itself carries out examinations
of this type almost annually through its Operations Evaluation Department.
2.47   Implicit in the proposal that a loan evaluation process be instituted is the requirement that it
be systematic and continuous throughout the life of any project, and that it allow assessment of how
efficiently original project goals and the results expected from them are being or were achieved.
Performance of Contractors and Consultants
(a)    Contracting Firms
2.48   DNER keeps a register of approximately 400 contracting firms it regards as qualified to
execute its works. Twenty-five percent (100) of them participated in project highway rehabilitation
works, elimination of black points, and highway marking programs. From the legal and
administrative viewpoint, the behavior of the vast majority of these firms was satisfactory, there being
little need to apply the sanctions provided for in their contracts (e.g. loss of price adjustments because
of time overruns, and imposition of fines). In any case, no firm lost the right to participate in future
bidding proceedings.
2.49   From the technical standpoint, in the case of rehabilitation works, the only ones to be
monitored competently by DNER, there was a tendency among contracting firms, frequently with the
support of DNER inspectors, to alter engineering design solutions in ways that allowed them to make
intensive use of their equipment or substitute higher-standard and more costly options. Despite this,
the majority of contracting firms did their best to accommodate DNER by adjusting performance of
their contracts to the rate at which funding became available.
2.50   Again where rehabilitation works were concerned, bids, as mentioned in Section 2.1.3 below,
were quite competitive in response to earlier calls for tenders. The increase in the number of
contracts put up for bid, in combination with accelerating inflation, pushed prices up considerably,
although they were offset to some extent by the delays in settlement of invoices.
(b)    Consulting Firms
2.51   Engineering design firms associated with project rehabilitation works, and subsequently
responsible for their supervision, can be regarded as having performed satisfactorily, subject to a
single reservation: their general failure to stand by their designs in the face of attempts to modify
them as works were being executed. Since this is a matter which also raises questions regarding the
role of DNER's inspectors and their agreement to such modifications, it warrants more careful
analysis before any accusations are leveled against contracting firms, designer/supervisors, or DNER
inspectors.



- 22 -
2.52   As noted in Part 2.4 below, the natural commercial interests of the consulting firms
responsible for research programs prejudiced their performance. In certain cases, the ideal situation
would be to contract for the services of independent researchers, provided the programs they are
commissioned to work on are properly coordinated by DNER. In the training arena, the firm
commissioned to assist the Training and Seminars Division (DTCo) in carrying out its program for
the benefit of DNER and DER personnel performed well.
2.53   In the technical assistance arena, consultants performed well, particularly those responsible
for: (i) monitoring the rehabilitation program and assisting the Financing Coordination Unit; (ii) the
study on sector modernization, including design and preparation of PNMRE (National Program of
State Highway Maintenance); (iii) environmental protection studies; (iv) analysis and diagnosis of
black points; and (v) implementation of the highway video-recording program. Through their
assistance, these firms made a valuable contribution to a number of the project's successes.
C. Conclusions and Recommendations                               .4
2.54   It is clear from the preceding materials and from the more detailed description of the project
execution process given in the next part of this Report that, despite better results than were obtained
from previous loans, much still remains to be done if DNER is to be able in the future to make good
the full potential afforded by its borrowing. The opportunity to do so is unparalleled, since the agency
is going through an institutional reorganization process the impetus for which comes from a top-
management policy decision likely to affect all segments and levels of the agency's activity.
2.55   The recommendations for action which now follow are based chiefly on the ideas put forward
in the above section above regarding DNER performance in the preparation and monitoring of IBRD
VII:
(a)    Establishment of a foreign loan management system, along the lines suggested above,
which incorporates coordination of loan activities, monitoring of loan components and
conditionalities, and ongoing appraisal/evaluation of loan design/preparation,
implementation and operating stages, the last commencing on conclusion of a project.
(b)    Creation within the DNER organizational structure of a Management Unit which is
linked to the Planning Division and whose chief officer is directly answerable to the
top level of management. This Unit, assisted by technical staff directly associated
with projects in progress, will be responsible for setting up the abovementioned
management and loan component monitoring systems, and the process of project
appraisal/evaluation (including formulation of the criteria and parameters on which it
is to be based).
(c)    Decentralization of the monitoring function so that the DERs play a larger role in the
process. Particular consideration should be given to the suggestion put forward by the
Financing Coordination Unit with regard to IBRD VIII, to the effect that initially a
core team including selected regional representatives of the most active DERs should
be formed at DNER headquarters. Subsequently, these representatives will be
responsible for acquainting the other DERs in their respective regions with the
systematic monitoring procedure formulated by the headquarters core team (a



- 23 -
management tool also applicable to activities not funded under foreign loans). One of
the results of this step will be the transfer of many activities currently the
responsibility of DNER headquarters to the Regional Coordination Offices, each of
which incorporates several DERs.
(d)    Placement of the appropriate degree of emphasis (reflected chiefly in funding
allocations) on activities integral to planning, highway safety, training, environmental
protection, and systematized management. When such project components receive
minor allocations of loan proceeds, or when they are subsumed in loan conditionalities
and receive no specific allocations, it is apparent, despite repeated DNER verbal
assurances regarding the importance placed on them, that their implementation is
always very slow and laborious.
One of the underlying causes of this situation has been the failure by DNER top
management to take the kind of firm stand that would ensure adequate provision is
made for implementation of such components. For instance: (i) appropriate annual
budget allocation of agency counterpart resources; (ii) allocation of operating funds
(travel and per diems) for the DNER teams responsible for implementation; and (iii)
political will and commitment in the agency to act on study findings, particularly on
the subject of management systems. Where operating funds are concerned, there is a
very wide gap between the resources that actually are allocated and what is needed to
achieve project goals. Here, too, the World Bank itself should begin to insist in its
loan documents, or at least through loan conditions, on obtaining guarantees that
budgetary provision will be made for staff travel expenses, since highway projects are
undertakings of national scope. A step in this direction has been its suspension of
disbursements, under the US$116 million loan made to IBAMA to finance the
National Environment Program (PNMA) precisely because of the lack of budgetary
allocations for government staff air travel and per diems.
(e)    Under the Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (IBRD VIII) which is to
begin shortly, efforts should be made to balance the distribution of resources between
maintenance activities and rehabilitation, a move that will be facilitated by
introduction of the road maintenance tax and by Bank approval for this new project to
fund contract maintenance services.
In addition to avoiding the degree of imbalance observed during the execution of
IBRD VII (1984-89), with consequent adverse effects on both rehabilitation and
maintenance, as well as on the condition of paved surfaces, this type of remedial
measure will be a strong argument in favor of financing programs and works to
expand highway capacity under future loans. In other words, if internal resources for
highway maintenance are guaranteed, the Bank need no longer concern itself with
funding for this purpose.
(f)    Following IBRD VIII, steps should be taken to move the emphasis of World Bank
loans from highway rehabilitation to expansion of highway capacity, chiefly in the
environs of urban areas. The scarcity of resources for the sector, in combination with
the absolute priority given to rehabilitation in recent years, is likely to make
conditions on peri-urban highways even more critical, with almost intolerable degrees



- 24 -
of saturation and a consequent anti-economic increase in user fuel consumption.
Moreover, it is hardly just that the onus of restoring existing highway infrastructure
should be passed on to coming generations by saddling them with loan redemption
obligations. Strictly speaking, it is the Government itself which should generate the
internal resources with which to maintain highway assets, and this is now possible
thanks to introduction of the highway maintenance tax, a predictable source of
financing for federal highway maintenance activities.
In the circumstances, DNER should take immediate steps to arrange for studies that
will lead to the formulation of engineering design standards and specifications for
works to expand highway capacity. With a view to preliminary discussions on this
subject with the World Bank, DNER should also undertake economic feasibility
studies on peri-urban highways in conjunction with its traffic capacity studies; such
materials will make it possible to establish a list of medium- and long-term priorities
for external financing.
(g)    In conjunction with the Bank, steps should be taken to arrive at a more detailed
evaluation of the likely practical worth of Bank-recommended studies, since action to
implement the findings they generate requires decisions beyond the competence of
DNER and on occasion even beyond that of the Ministry to which it is answerable.
This was the case, for instance, with the studies included in IBRD VII on national
highway policy (DNER), the highway user tax (GEIPOT), and the determinants of
diesel fuel consumption (IPEA/SEPLAN). This degree of caution is necessary
because, despite the existence of a formal commitment by the Federal Government in
the IBRD VII Loan Agreement itself to see that these studies were carried out, the
findings and recommendations emanating from them were never even considered at
the upper echelons, with the result that the investment in them (the financial burden of
which fell mostly on DNER) was wasted.



I



- 25 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2446-BR)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. RELATED BANK LOANS
(for Transport Sector)
Loan         Purpose      Year of Approval     Status       Comments
567-BR    First Highwav Construction    1968    Closed   $26.0 million loan for detailed
Project: To finance                            engineering and construction
construction and paving                       supervision for 424km of
supervision of seven major                     highways. Satisfactory completion
roads in the country.                          one year prior to schedule, with a
final cost overrun of 10%.
676-BR    Second Highwav Construction    1970    Closed   $100.0 million loan intended to
Proiect: included construction,                help finance works which were
improvement and paving of                      satisfactorily completed with a
2,136km of major roads.                        cost overrun of only 6%.
756-BR    Santos Port Proiect: first Bank   1971    Closed   $45.0 million loan for project that
Loan for the port subsector in                 experienced considerable cost
Brazil, aimed at supporting                    overruns and delays. Less than
portions of Santos Port's five                 50% was completed by planned
year development plan (1971-                   closing date, due to revisions and
75), including the construction                protracted discussions over
of a container terminal and                   revision of priorities.
ancillary railway facilities.
786-BR    Railway Proiect: first Bank   1971    Closed   $46.0 million loan. A lower
financed project for Brazil's                 economic rate of return than
railways (after a period of                    expected at appraisal resulted
nearly 20 years) supported a                   from the difficulties of completing
program for upgrading the                      a project with a large institutional
system, formerly a component                   component within an ambitiously
of a larger operation for iron                tight time frame.
ore mining and exporting.
813-854-   Third and Fourth Highway     1972   Closed   $140.0 million (two loans) for a
BR        Proiects: included construction                project completed satisfactorily
and paving of 2,530kmn of                     with a higher economic rate of
highways and consultants'                     return than expected.
services for supervision and
engineering studies for an
additional 4,210km.



- 26 -
1074-BR   Second Railway Project:       1975    Closed   $175.0 million loan fully
responding to the greater                      disbursed as part of the
emphasis placed by GOB on                      investment programs of the
the railway sub-sector, the                    federal railways. Their policy
project's objective was to assist              impact upon the much larger
the consolidation of rail                      programs was, however, less than
transport through key export                   hoped for at appraisal.
corridors to major ports.
1075-BR   Fifth Highway Project: the first  1975    Closed   $110.0 million loan effective
Bank-financed highway project                  1975. Early delays through lack
in Brazil aimed primarily at                   of counterpart funding set back
supporting road maintenance                    initial progress, and also led to
and rehabilitation, rather than                cutbaQks in the construction and
new road construction.                         operation of the key component of
weighing stations aimed at
reducing axle weights.
1171-BR   Third Railway Project         1975    Closed   $75.0 million loan effective
(FEPASA): to finance                           March 1976. FEPASA was able
investments to improve the                     to reduce operating costs of the
suburban rail service of the                   suburban services as a result of
Sao Paulo Railway Company                      staff deployment and operational
(FEPASA).                                      improvements introduced through
the project.
1207-BR   Secondary and Feeder Roads    1976    Closed   $55.0 million loan effective July
Proiect: to improve and                        1976. Physical implementation
construct 5,210 km of state                    progressed well, but because of
and municipal roads and 62                     constant devaluation of ORTN
bridges, throughout the                        (monetary unit used to denominate
country, with significant                      sub-loans) a major re-formulation
investments in the poorer                      of project had to be undertaken in
North-East region.                             1981.
1557-BR   Sixth Highwav Project: to     1978    Closed   $114.0 million loan effective
finance rehabilitation works on                October 1978. Works proceeded
federal highways.                              well until mid-1980, when federal
government financial constraints
led to their being suspended.
Program resumed in mid-1981,
but at a slower pace, leading to
two-year completion overrun.
Maintenance program of State of
Parana went particularly well.



- 27 -
1563-BR   Urban Transport Project: to     1978    Closed    $88.0 million loan effective
finance investments to improve                   October 1978. Project helped
public transport services,                       strengthen the Brazilian Urban
especially for the poor, support                 Transport Company (EBTU -
formulation of appropriate                       newly created in 1976, but later
transport policies and                           abolished in 1989) and improve
strengthen municipal, state and                  public transport in the five
federal capacity to prepare,                     selected cities as well as providing
appraise and execute sound                       institutional support at the
urban transport projects.                        municipal level. Project
experienced delays due to
protracted preparation of final
engineering designs and tendering.
1730-BR   Second Feeder Roads Project:   1979    Closed    $110.0 million loan effective
to provide continuity to                         January 1980. Physical
program begun under Ln 1207-                     implementation for improvement
BR, with investments in 15                       of construction to 4,790 km of
States throughout Brazil.                        roads and 239 bridges; proceeded
on schedule.
1839-BR   Second Urban Transport (Porto  1980    Closed    $159.0 million loan effective
Alegre) Project: to help finance                 December 1980. Major physical
the construction of surface                      components of the project were
suburban rail mass transit in                    successfully completed within one
Porto Alegre, with ancillary                     year of project completion date at
aims of more efficient urban                     costs 20% below appraisal
land use zoning along the                        estimation. Trains became
city's fastest growing transport                 operational in 1985, although with
corridor, and reducing fuel                      trip demand lower than forecast.
consumption and traffic
congestion.
1965-BR   Third Urban Transport Proiect:  1981    Closed    $90.0 million loan effective
to finance investments in ten                    October 1981. Project was
urban centers throughout                         completed in five years instead of
Brazil. Overall objective was                    the three years estimated at
to improve transport conditions                  appraisal. Delays caused by
in urban areas as set out in III                 absence of detailed designs and
National Development Plan.                       EBTU's failure to appraise and
Key PROPAV component                             process sub-project proposals in
aimed at low cost paving of                      accordance with agreed schedule.
bus routes in urban areas.
Reorganization of the Brazilian
Urban Transport Company
(EBTU); improving its
operating efficiency was



- 28 -
included as a project
component.
2062-BR   Northwest Region Integrated    1981    Closed   $240.0 million loan effective
Development Program: First                     April 1982. Construction of the
Phase: Highway Project: to                     Campinas-Ariquimes (Cuiaba-
construct a major highway in                   Porto Velho) highway, the main
the region, as well as the                     project component proceeded
institutional strengthening of                 well. Start-up difficulties
the Rond6nia State Highway                     experienced with strengthening
Department.                                    program of Rondonia Highway
Department. Technical assistance
provided under the project helped
to improve performance.
2224-BR   Third Feeder Roads Project: to   1983    Closed   $154.0 million loan effective June
provide sub-loans for                          1983. Physical scope was
construction, improvement and                  increased from 8,000km of roads
rehabilitation of about 8,000                  to 11,400km due to falling costs
km of feeder roads throughout                  deriving from exchange rate
Brazil to help distribution of                 savings resulting from devaluation
agricultural production.                       of local currency vis a vis the US
dollar.
2563-BR   Federal Railway Export         1985    On-      $200.0 million loan effective
Corridor: to provide assistance       going    October 1985, currently 53%
to RFFSA in the                                disbursed. Project has experienced
implementation of a set of                     delays caused by financial and
action plans and programs                      institutional problems.
aimed at its financial
rehabilitation and improved
commercial performance
2822-BR   Fourth Urban Transport        1987   On-        $100.0 million loan effective July
Project: aimed at improving           going    1987. Although scheduled for
urban transport systems in the                 completion December 1992, loan
nine metropolitan areas of                     was closed prematurely following
Brazil, as well as conserving                  the extinction of the principal
energy consumption.                            executing agency, EBTU in 1989.
Institutional strengthening and
introduction of better financial
management were among other
key objectives.



- 29 -
2830-BR   Sao Paulo Highway              1987   On-       $174.0 million loan effective
Management Project: for the           going    December 1987, 30% disbursed to
construction, rehabilitation and               date.
periodic maintenance of about
5,100 km of state highways in
Sao Paulo. The first Bank
financed project to concentrate
exclusively upon a state
highway network.
2857-BR   FEPASA Railway                 1987    On-      $100.0 million loan effective July
Rehabilitation Project: policy        going    1987, with 57% disbursed to date.
and institutional development
action programs and an
investment component for the
Sao Paulo State Railway.
2941-BR   Ports Technical Assistance     1988    Closed   $20.0 million loan effective
Proiect: aimed to help reform                  October 1988. Premature closing
Brazil's port system through                   in December 1990 following the
techical assistance to the                     extinction of the borrower
National Ports Holding                         PORTOBRAS. 81.5% of the loan
Company (PORTOBRAS) and                        was cancelled.
technology transfer to the
Hydraulic Research Institute
(INPH)
3169-BR   Highways Manazement and        1991    On-      $310.0 million loan effective July
Rehabilitation Project: to            going    1991. Project still in early stage
modernize the sub-sector                       of implementation with 11 % of
through helping to re-define                   the loan disbursed.
the federal highway network,
strengthen the coordinating and
policy role of the National
Highway Department (DNER),
improve compliance with
environmental standards and
finance maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement
of roads in major transport
corridors.



- 30 -
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                          Date Planned          Date Revised          Actual Da
- Identification                                                                  01/82
- Preparation                                                                     05/82 - 09/83
- Appraisal Mission                  12/83                                        12/83
- Loan Negotiations                  05/84                                        05/84
- Board Approval                     06/84                                        06/84
- Loan Signature                     07/84                                        07/84
- Loan Effectiveness                 11/84                                        11/84
- Loan Closing                       06/89                  12/89                 12/89
- Last Disbursement                  12/89                                        07/90
3. PROJECT IMLEMENTATION
Indicator             Appraisal Estimate            Actual Estimate
(See section 6 "PROJECT RESULTS" for details)
-- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -   -- - - - -_-- - - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -



- 31 -
4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(in millions of US dollars)
Bank Fiscal Year:       1985   198    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
Appraisal:              49.6  106.4  161.0  197.6  210.0  210.0  210.0
Actual:                 26.7   49.5  138.6  177.7  184.9  207.8  204.6
Actual as % of
Appraisal             53.8%  46.5%  86.1%  89.9%  88.0%  99.0%  97.4%
Note:
Date of Final Disbursement: June 30, 1990
Disbursement Prorile
D I SBURSEMENT PROF I LE
SAR acr Actual
220
210 -
2DO~~~ -w   l tAtX
200
180
'170
isa
-   140
1¶20
120
L'110
100
30
so
so5
40
30
20
10                                         
190s   1986   1987   1088   19U9   1990   1991
Fiscal Year
0 Appra Iea I  + ACt LeI



- 32 -
5. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ inillions)
Appraisal                     Revised                       Actual
Local  For  o TAL           Jea   Fogi   TOTAL    Local  For     TOTAL
Highway Rehabilitation          214.50   168.41   382.91           (no formal revisions                       520.40
made)
Highway Safety                   28.75    22.40    51.15                                                       32.20
MaintenanceTraining                6.33     3.83     10.16                                                      3.80
Highway Research, Pavement
and Equipment Management          3.28     2.02      5.30                                                      5.80
TOTAL:                         252.86   196.66   449.52                                                     562.20
B. Proiect FSnacing
(USs millions)
&iourss                   ADDp ia       (%                     Revise              M%            Actual         (%
IBRD                          210.00    46.7%                 (no revisions)                     204.5          36.4%
Federal Government            239.52    53.2%                                                     357.7         63.6%
TOTAL                         449.52   100.0%                                                     562.2        100.0%



- 33 -
6. PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Results
Indicators                          Appraisal Estimate    Estimated at Closing Date
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION
Civil Works                                   4,000 km                     4,860 km
Detailed Engineering                          4,000 km                     5,053 km
HIGHWAY SAFETY
Pavement marking and striping                 20,000 km                   27,899 km
"Black spots" analyzed                         1,800                         1,544
"Black spots" rehabilitated                     300                           332
Equipment for Highway Police                                                (none)
TRAINING
Training Centers                                  7                             5
Trainees (DNER/DERs)                           2,346                         1,518
Overseas training                                                           (none)
HIGHWAY RESEARCH
Number of research projects                      16                             13
B. Economic Impact
Ex post economic rates of return were not calculated due to lack of traffic data. 14 However, since:
(i) highway traffic has grown in line with ex-ante assumption; (ii) the cost of operating vehicles in
Brazil has increased substantially after the project execution period; and (iii) project costs have been
contained within the original estimates, any ex-post analysis would likely indicate similar or better
rates than the ex-ante estimated rates of return, which range from 21 % to 124%.
C. Financial Impact
The project did not aim at a financial rate of return from the investments financed, nor did it covenant
financial targets on the part of DNER.
"The transfer of DNER from Rio to Brasilia and the consequent reorganization diarupted DNER's capability to carry out surveys at the
time of preparation of the completion report.



- 34 -
D. Studies
Studv                   PurRose as               Status                  ImRact of Study
Defined at
Appraisal
Soils and materials     To develop a             Prototype material      Still at prototype
mobile plant for        produced was of          phase.
clay aggregate          good quality.
production.
Definition of a         To develop a             Model is set up.
Simulation Model        method for making        Diskettes and
for optimizing          the best choice of       technical manual
projected Rigid and     pavement type on         available.
Flexible Pavements      the basis on
technical criteria.
Compressed earth        To test the              Important               Experimental
embankments             efficiency of            parameters of           works were
certain types of        embankment               undertaken in Rio
soils and drainage      stability were           de Janeiro and
arrangements.           established.             Santa Catarina.
The Use of Laterite     Classification of        Final report
Soils in Highways       soil types.              presented.
Highway Drainage        Preparation of a         Manual was
general drainage        prepared and
manual.                 published.
Methodology to          To evaluate their        Final report
strengthen rigid        performance.             presented.
pavements.
Engineering criteria    To improve the           Final report
for low traffic         feeder roads             presented.
density highways.       manual.
Calculation of          1985 Highway             Final report
highway capacity.       Capacity Manual          presented.
update.
Productivity and        To define                New parameters
costs of highway        productivity and         proposed.
paving equipment.       cost parameters.



- 35 -
Testing tire adher-    To development          Prototype prepared
ence to flexible       prototype               using optic sensors
pavement.              equipment.              and strain gauge.
Methodology and        Perfecting a            Final report
data processing for    method for              prepared.
PMS.                   determining
priority programs.
Determinants of        To identify             Report prepared by
Diesel                 potential               IPEA.
Consumption            consumption
savings of diesel.



- 36 -
7. STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement
Section                Subject                                Comments
3.01(b)             DNER to sign agreements with States       compliance
participating in Part C.3 of Project
(DER training in highway
maintenance)
3.01(d)             Borrower to execute a research            compliance
program in accordance with TOR
satisfactory to Bank. TOR on study of
consumption of diesel should be sent to
Bank by September 30, 1984. Study
to be completed June 30, 1985.
3.01(e)             Borrower to: (i) present                  compliance, although only in
recommendations of study of diesel       part with respect to (iii)
consumption immediately after its
conclusion; (ii) exchange ideas with
Bank; (iii) implement
recommendations.
3.02(b)             DNER to contract: (i) by August 1,        compliance
1984 consultants to assist IPR in
formulating and implementing a
maintenance training program; (ii)
consultants to undertake a study of
management system for equipment
(Part F); and (iii) specialists or
consultants to help in the execution of
following programs: (a) highway safety
(Part B.); (b) highway research (Part
D.); and (c) pavement management
(Part E).
3.03(a)             When presenting to the Bank a             compliance
Highway Rehabilitation Sub-project for
approval, borrower to provide to Bank
a full description and analysis of the
respective Sub-project.
3.03(b)             Presentation of an Engineering Sub-       compliance
project to the Bank for approval,
should be in form acceptable to the
Bank.



- 37 -
3.03(c)              Presentation of a Road Safety Sub-       compliance
project to the Bank for approval,
should be in form acceptable to the
Bank.
3.03(e)              Borrower to undertake a follow-up        necessary monitoring not
study of actual results of Road Safety   undertaken
Sub-project.
3.05(d)              Borrower to present quarterly progress   compliance
reports to Bank.
3.07(a)              DNER to maintain project revolving       compliance
account.
3.07(b)              DNER to deposit US$6.0 million into      initial deposit made, although
revolving account and make additional    counterpart funding difficulties
deposits to ensure sufficient amounts to  experienced especially during
meet all project expenditures.           1986.
3.09(a)             DNER to adopt adequate                    compliance
organizational arrangements to
implement Pavement Management
System.
3.09(b)              DNER to prepare its annual and           compliance
pluriannual highway programs in
accordance with policies and economic
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
3.10                 Exchange of views with Bank on           compliance
results of research program and
incorporation of recommendations into
DNER design manuals.
3.11                Borrower to ensure prompt issuance of     This was made impossible in
import permits for goods and services    case of highway safety
required under the project.              equipment due to reserved
procurement arrangements
unacceptable to Bank.
4.02(a)              Borrower and DNER to maintain            compliance
adequate records and accounts.
4.02(c)              Audits of project accounts.              compliance
4.03(a)              Annual audit of Special Account.         compliance



- 38 -
4.03(b)              Account bank to furnish annually          compliance
certified Statements of Special
Account.
4.04                 Borrower to continue taking necessary     Partial compliance until weight
measures to enforce size and weight       station program largely fell
limits of vehicles using federal          into disuse.
highways.
4.05(a)              Borrower to ensure adequate               Overall condition of federal
maintenance of federal highway            highway network has continued
network.                                 to deteriorate as routine
maintenance has not been
undertaken through lack of
funding.
4.05(b)              Borrower, through DNER, to delegate       Compliance in the case of the
to any State that is capable of assuming  State of Parana.
it, the responsibility for maintaining
federal highways in its territory and
make funds available to the States for
this purpose.
4.05(c)              DNER to present to Bank by July 1         compliance
each year annual and pluriannual
highway programs, and exchange
views with Bank thereon.
4.05(d)              Borrower shall, not later than July 1,    compliance
1985: (i) adopt a unit price contracting
system for all routine maintenance
work; and (ii) introduce, on terms
satisfactory to the Bank, the SAC
system for force account operations in
at least six DRFs.
4.07(a)              Borrower, by January 31, 1985, to         compliance
present to Bank for its comment, a
plan of action for revision of its user
charge system to ensure all vehicles
are charged at a rate equivalent to at
least the short-term marginal cost of
road use.
4.07(b)              Borrower to promptly revise its user      currently under discussion
charge system in accordance with plan    through supervision of follow-
in (a) above.                             up project



- 39 -
8. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff inputs
Bank Fiscal Year:     1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Stage of Project Cycle:
Through Appraisal      19.3   4.5  14.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                      41.8
Board Approval
through
Loan Effectiveness                  10.5
Supervision                   0.9  18.2  18.1  18.1  11.8   7.2   2.1   0.0
Completion                                                                          1.2



- 40 -
B. Missions
Stage of Project       Month/   No. of  Days in          Specialization       Performance Types of             Comments
Cycle                    Year  Persons        field      Representedl/    rating status2/ Problems3l
Through Appraisal:       09/78         2         2                                                                     Identification
05/79         1         4                                                                     Identification
03/82         2         4            HE; TEc                                                    Preparation
04/83         2         7            HE; TEc                                                    Preparation
10/83         4         3       HE; TEc; FA                                                    Preparation
Appraisal through
Board Presentation:      12/83         6        13        HE; TEc; FA                                                       Apraisal
03/84         3        18        HE; TEc; Tr                                                 Post-Appraisal
Board Approval through
Loan Effectiveness:      09/84         1        is                  HE                    I                              Supervision
Supervision:             11/84         2        18             HEJTEc                     I                              Supervision
05/85         3        17          HE;Tec;Tr                     2                   F         Supervision
10/85        2         23            HE;TEc;                    3                   F          Supervision
03/86         3         7          HE;TEc;Tr                    2                    F         Supervision
07/86         1         6                 Eng                                                  Supervision
10186         2        15                 HE                    2                              Supervision
02/87         2        22             HEJTEc                     2                   F         Supervision
05/87         1        17                 HE                    2                              Supervision
09/87         2        17             HE;HSS                    2                              Supervision
12/88         1         4                 HE                    2                              Supervision
I/ HE Highway Engineer; TEc =Transport Economist; Tr =Training Specialist; HSS =Highway Safety Specialist.
2/ 1 = minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3 = major problems
3/ (Type of Problem) F = financial; M = managerial; T = technical; P = political.



