Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LJ.   L4f6,Z
Report No. 4999b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SKTOR PROJICT
May 23, 1984
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Official Rate
US$1.0 = Cr$ 1,335 (March 31, 1984)
This exchange rate was used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Weights and Measurements
Metric: British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                   = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              = 0.62 mile (al)
1 kilogram (kg)               = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)          = 2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)                   = 0.26 US gallon (gal)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT       Average Daily Traffic
DER       Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Estatal)
State Roads Department
DNER      Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
DRF       Distrito Rodoviario Federal
Federal Roads District
EBTU      Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EMS       Equipment Management System
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FEPASA    Ferrovia Paulista, S. A.
Sao Paulo Railway
GEIPOT    Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
HDM Model Highway Design and Maintenance Model
INFRAERO  Empresa Brasileira de Infraestructura Aeroportuaria
Brazilian Enterprise for Airport Infrastructure
IPR       Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias
Road Research Institute
MME       Ministerio das Minas e Energia
Ministry of Mines and Energy
MT        Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
PMS       Pavement Management System
PORTOBRAS Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S. A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA     Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S. A.
Federal Railway
SAC       Sistema de Administracao de Conservacao
Road Maintenance Management System
SEAP      Secretaria Especial de Abastecimento e Precos
Secretariat for Supply and Prices
SEST      Secretaria Especial para as Empresas Estatais
Secretariat for State Enterprises
SCCI      Secretaria Central de Controle Interno
Central Secretariat for Internal Control
SEPLAN    Secretaria de Planejanento
Federal Planning Secretariat
SUNAMAM   Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Navy



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT      FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT SUMM     ARY ........................................    ( i)
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  **................................          I
A. Sector Background  **................................          1
B. The Transport System *****.*.....* ..................          1
C. Institutional Framework ............................           2
D. Sector Strategy and Issues ... ee......................        2
(i) Country Objectives ......o .................. De.         2
(ii) Planning .............  o.................  o...................  3
(iii) Transport and Energy    ...........................       4
E. Bank Involvement in the Sector ... ... ...............         4
-I.  THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .................       ****,****           5
A. Subsector Organization and the Network .......&......          5
B. Traffic .................... .......................           5
C. Road Transport ..6
(i) Road Transport Industry    ...................            6
(ii) Automotive Fuel Pricing ........................          7
5iii) Road User Charges ............... o.............          8
D. Administration - Federal Network                               9
Ci) DNER's Organization                                       9
(ii) Highway Planning and Financing                 ...       10
(iii) Highway Engineering and Construction ...........         10
(iv) Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation .**.e*            11
Cv) Highway Safety  .............................            13
(vi) Training                                       .         13
(vii) Highway Research ...........    ..............           14
(viii) Accounting and Auditing .........s......... o..          14
III.  DNER'S 1984-1987 PROGRAM .........                .ee* .         15
A. Rolling Three-Year Budget se..........                        15
B. Investment Plan 1984-1987 ..........................          17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Brazil in December 1983 comprising Messrs. 0. Raggambi (Highway
Engineer), P. Geraldes (Transport Economist), G. Morra (Training Specialist),
and T. Markus (Financial Analyst); and a post-appraisal mission in March 1984
comprising Messrs. 0. Raggambi, P. Geraldes and G. Morra. The appraisal
mission was assisted during shorter periods by Messrs. P. P. W. Morris
(Highway Engineer), B. J. Sisson (Road Safety Specialist) and P. Fossberg
(Highway Engineering Adviser). The report has been edited by Ms. Virginia
R. Foster.
I This document has a restrited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnc Of
their offidal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)                                       Page No.
- ii -
IV.  BANK PARTICIPATION ......................................      17
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement          ......................  17
B. Project Scope ...... ................................       18
C. Project Components          .................................  19
(i) Highway Rehabilitation .........      .................  19
(ii) Highway Safety ........ ********e**.o    .... ......    21
(iii) Training of DNER and DER Maintenance Personnel ..    21
(iv) Highway Research ...... *    .........................  22
(v) Pavement Management System (PMS) ... .............      23
(vi) Equipment Management System (EMS)  ...............      23
D. Cost Estimates .....................................        23
E. Project Execution, Monitoring and Procurement........       25
F. Financing and Disbursement          ..........................  26
G. Special Account, Revolving Fund and Auditing    ........    27
H. Economic Justificatiou ... ....      ......................  28
I. Project Risk ................ **********.. ...........      30
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................        30
TABLES
1.1       Modal Traffic Shares (1977-1982) ....................       33
1.2       Final Energy Consumption (1982)  ....34
2.1       National Road Network (1982) ...........o.oooooo..          35
2.2       Federal Highway Network Average Daily Traffic (1982)        36
2.3       Road Transportation Subsector's Fuel Consumption
(1972-1982)  ..o..37
2.4       Road Vehicle Fleet (1982) ........ .................        38
2.5       Diesel Oil Final Consumption in the Road
Transportation Subsector (1982) ....39
2.6       Price Structure of Petroleum Automotive Fuels,
December 1983                                             40
2.7       Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures, 1978-1983       41
2.8       Pavement Condition, Federal Highway Network                 42
3.1       Summary of DNER Expenditures and Receipts (1978-1987)       43
3.2       Summary of DNER Programed Expenditures and Receipts
(1984-1987)              ...............44
4.1       Highway Rehabilitation Program (1984-1987) ....45
4.2       Highway Rehabilitation Program, Group I Roads               46
4.3       List of Equipment for Highway Safety Program                47
4.4       Schedule of Estimated Disbursement                          48
4.5       Results of Economic Analysis: First Group of Highways
Rehabilitation and Strengthening Subprojects ... oo    49
ANNEXES
1.        Bank Assistance to the Transport Sectoro.............       50
2.        Road Maintenance Training Program                           55
3.        Highway Research Program                                    59
4.        Pavement Management System                                  62
5.        Economic Evaluation                                         65
6.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project
File                                                      70



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
- iii -
Page No.
CHARTS
26216     Orgenization of the Ministry of Transport . ..........      71
26201     Organization of the Federal Highway Department (DNER)       72
MAP
IBRD 18051 - BRAZIL - Federal Highways Sector Project



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Project        Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (DNER)
Executing
Agency:
Amount:        US$210 million, including a capitalized frout-end fee of
about US$0.5 million.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including four years of grace, at
standard variable interest rate.
Project        The proposed project provides assistance to DNER in the
Description:   implementation of a series of programs included in its
1984-1987 Investment Plan. The components of the Plan
supported by the project are: (i) highway rehabilitation
program for the federal highway network; (ii) road safety
program covering improvement of high accident locations,
pavement marking, highway safety campaign and purcbase of
equipment for highway police; (iii) training program for DEER
and state highway maintenance personnel; and (iv) technical
assistance for a pavement management system, an equipment
management system, and highway research studies.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would be realized directly by
road users in the form of vehicle operating cost savings
resulting from improved pavement and safety conditions. Most
of these benefits would likely be competitively passed over to
the directly productive sectors of the economy and would affect
traffic in the export corridors where a considerable proportion
of the proposed investment would take place. In addition,
technical assistance in training and pavement management
systems would contribute toward improving DNER's management
capabilities.
Risks:         Although continuing economic difficulties could delay project
execution, such risk would be minimized by adequate mwnitoring
of the implementation of the investment plan in the context of
the three-year rolling budget program for the public sector.
Periodic consultation with the Government during implementation
would contribute toward ensuring that the project would have
the expected impact upon subsector policy and management.



(ii)
Estimated Costs: 1/              ------ U S$ Million
Local       Foreign         Total
Highway Rehabilitation        186.29       142.82        329.11
Highway Safety                 24.97         18.97        43.94
Maintenance Training            5.57         3.14          8.71
Highway Research, Pavement
and Equipment Management    2.88           1.66          4.54
Total Base Cost                 219.71        166.59       386.30
Price Contingencies            33.15        29.55         62.70
Total Project Cost              252.86        196.14       449.00
Front-End Fee on Loan              -            0.52         0.52
Total Financing Required        252.86       196.66        449.52
Financing Plan                    ----      US$ Million 
Local      Foreign         Total         Z
Government                   239.52           -          239.52        54
IBRD                          13.34        196.66        210.00        46
Total                        252.86        196.66        449.52       100
Estimated Disbursements:             ---- --- US$ Million
Bank FY                        85       86       87      88        89
Annual:                        49.6 2/  58.8    54.6    36.6       12.4
Cumulative:                   49.6    106.4   161.0   197.6    210.0
Rate of Return: Over 40%, based on an evaluation of components corresponding
to 85% of total base costs.
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$76.33 million
equivalent.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Sector Background
1.01      Brazil has an area of 8.5 million km2 and a population of over 130
million, growing at a rate of 2.7% per annum. It enjoys considerable
agricultural and mineral resources; its geographical location, however, has
made development, particularly that of transport infrastructure, costly.
Development initially took place along the eastern seaboard and in Minas
Gerais, where a large proportion of the population and almost the entire
industrial base are located. Only recently has large scale agricultural
development started in the interior. Brazil has abundant hydroelectric
resources, but other sources of domestic energy, including gas and petroleum
fields in the northeast and coal mines in the south, are limited; although
the Government launched a number of programs, in the mid-1970s, for the
development of domestic energy, the economy, and particularly the transport
sector, is still highly dependent upon largely imported petroleum products.
1.02      Brazil enjoyed a rapid economic growth throughout the 1960s and the
1970s; after the first petroleum price shock of 1973-1974, however, the
economy became increasingly vulnerable. The increase, in 1979, of petroleum
prices and mounting debt service obligations, combined with falling commodity
prices, led the Government to undertake needed stabilization policies and
programs. GDP, which had been growing at over 10% p.a. until 1973 and at an
average 7Z p.a. thereafter, started falling in 1981.
B. The Transport System
1.03      Total domestic passenger and freight traffic grew at rates higher
than GDP for the 1977-1980 period, about 14% and 9X p.a. respectively
(Table 1.1). Passenger traffic grew considerably in the highway and aviation
nodes, 14% and 13% p.a. respectively, but increased only 2% p.a. on the
railways. Freight traffic grew most rapidly in aviation (14% p.a.), with
railways and pipelines growing at about 12% p.a. Inland and coastal shipping
grew at 9%, while road freight grew at some 7% p.a. From 1980 onward, in
line with the economic decline, total passenger traffic increased at just 4%
p.a., while freight traffic in 1982 was at about the same level as in 1980.
1.04      The relative importance of different modes of transport has changed
during the last 30 years. The principal changes have been an increase in
roads' share and a decrease in that of coastal and inland shipping. In the
early 1950s, roads accounted for about 55% of total freight and some 65% of
passenger movements; by 1982, these shares had risen to 60% and 94%
respectively. The railways' share of freight traffic also increased, from
15% in 1966 to 22% in 1982. Coastal and inland shipping, which, in 1960,
moved almost as much as the railways, accounted for less than 15% of total
freight traffic in 1982. Pipelines still account for less than 4%. The
share of air transport is about 2% of total passenger traffic.
1.05      The Brazilian trunk transport network is basically in place.  The
road network has a length of over 1.3 million km, but less than 20% of it
accounts for almost 80% of the total inter-regional road traffic. The
railway network has about 29,000 km of lines in operation, of which some 80%
constitute the federal network responsible for 41% of the total railway



freight traffic and for the majority of railway passenger traffic. The
country has 38 important deep-water ports in addition to a large number of
specialized bulk-facility terminals spotted along the coast. Although there
remain some 40,000 km of navigable rivers, their traffic share has gradually
declined.
C. Institutional Framework
1.06      The Brazilian transport sector basically falls under the authority
of the Ministry of Transport (MT), with the exception of civil aviation,
which is controlled by the Ministry of Aviation. Subsector operations and
planning are delegated to autonomous agencies, called 'autarchies," and to
public or semi-public enterprises (Chart 26216). The Federal Highway system
and road transport fall under DNER, and inland and coastal shipping under
SUNAMAM. Several enterprises report to MT, including: RFFSA, which runs most
of the country's railways; PORTOBRAS, a holding company controlling the
ports; EBTU, which is in charge of federal investment in urban transport; and
GEIPOT, which is a transport consulting company providing services on request
and under contract. INFRAERO, reporting to the Ministry of Aviation, is the
public enterprise responsible for ground and in-flight infrastructure
facilities.
1.07      MT functions as a coordinating body for the activities of its
autarchies and enterprises and appoints their key officers. The Minister of
State for Transport is assisted in these operational functions by a
Secretary-General and three Permanent Secretaries for land transport
(highways and railways), urban transport and navigation (waterways, ports and
merchant marine). The Secretary-General also ensures coordination between
the Ministry of Transport and the federal planning and budget programing
systems, as well as budgetary adjustments among the operational agencies,
through the Secretariat for Financial Programing and Budget. This
Secretariat coordinates the yearly and multi-yearly budgets of all sector
agencies and submits, by June of each year, to the Government, through the
Federal Planning Secretariat (SEPLAN), the consolidated budget proposal.
Financial control and auditing, at the level of MT, are under the
responsibility of the Secretariat for Internal Control, which directly
ensures coordination of these matters with the rest of the federal structure.
D. Sector Strategy and Issues
(i) Country Objectives
1.08      The Government's sector policy for the 1980s reflects broader goals
and objectives for economic stabilization. The rationale behind the
Brazilian transport sector policy is to support Government efforts to improve
the balance of payments by facilitating exports and by an effective
coordination with energy policy. Equity considerations, particularly for
low-income commuters in the large metropolitan areas, also constitute an
important concern for sector policy-making. Sector development strategy puts
emphasis on:
(a) export promotion, by improving efficiency in the export
corridors and ensuring adequate access to already developed, or
still developing, agricultural areas;



(b) petroleum product conservation and substitution, by
rationalization of transport services and replacement of
petroleum derivatives by alternative domestic sources; and
(c) improvement of commuting conditions for low-income urban
population.
Sector investment policy emphasizes the selection of projects capable of
meeting short-term demand requirements and with a relatively small payback
period.
1.09      In response to the contraction of public expenditures, the
Government is scaling down large capital-intensive investments which do not
contribute directly toward achieving the preceding objectives. In
particular, the completion of the Ferrovia do Aco railway line has been
postponed beyond 1987. Major construction of new highways is essentially
limited to the completion, in 1984, of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway.
Investments in new ports are geared toward completion of facilities in
integrated industrial projects. Maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
facilities are being given more attention, and priorities are assigned to:
(a) rehabilitation of high-traffic primary highways and railway
lines, serving the export corridors and key production centers;
(b) feeder road improvement in agricultural regions, and new
construction in the Northwest Region;
(c) development of container-handling facilities in the main
commercial ports, and replacement of equipment, to facilitate
the export of manufactured products; and
(d) modernization and capacity expansion of suburban rail systems
and provision of bypasses and expressways in some major cities,
to segregate inter-regional from urban traffic.
(ii) Planning
1.10      The current stabilization program introduced a new dimension into
the sector management framework. Tax earmarking for the different federal
agencies has been completely phased out, and public spending has been brought
under more stringent central control by the Federal Government. Broad powers
have been given to the Ministry of Planning to control investments, and
strict spending ceilings have been imposed. A special Secretariat, SEST, has
been established within the Ministry of Planning to oversee the activities of
Government agencies and enterprises. In addition, global budgetary
allocations have been severely reduced. As a result, two key issues emerged:
(a) the Federal Ministry of Transport needs to concentrate more
upon policy-formulation and the definition of planning
objectives and operational targets for the modal agencies,
while delegating to them s'necific investment and operational
decisions; and
(b) the modal agencies need to become more attentive to the
financial and economic aspects of planning.



- 4 -
The know-how available in GEIPOT is playing an increasingly important role in
the planning process by assisting the decentralized agencies on a contract
basis and cooperating with the Federal Government on broader policy
formulation.
(iii) Transport and Energy
1.11      The transport sector accounts for 20% of total final energy
consumption and for about 47Z of the final demand for petroleum products
(Table 1.2). oil imports currently account for 35Z of the country's export
earnings. Such a dependence led the Federal Government, in the mid-1970s, to
launch a number of programs aiming at conservation and replacement of
petroleum products in the transport sector. The success of these programs
has been mixed. Gasoline consumption has been reduced, through conservation
and replacement by domestically produced biomass alcohol, but the consumption
of diesel-oil has continued to increase, leading to a critical imbalance in
the consumption profile of petroleum derivatives. As of 1982, final demand
for diesel-oil accounted for some 32Z of the total consumption of petroleum
and natural gas derivatives, on a ton-of-oil equivalent basis, in sharp
contrast with a value of 23% in 1975. Moreover, the emphasis put on
petroleum savings in transport planning has led, in some cases, to the
formulation of investment strategies of marginal economic return, such as the
electrification of some suburban railways.
1.12      An appropriate approach to energy consumption by the transport
sector should emphasize efforts for conservation of diesel-oil, in particular
for direct conservation in the road transport industry, which can achieve
significant savings in a relatively short time, and for improving the
inter-modal allocation of cargoes toward more fuel-efficient modes, where
economically feasible, in the longer term (para 2.11).
E. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.13      Before -he mid-1970s, the Bank's primary concern in the transport
sector was with expanding the system. For the highway subsector, five loans
totaling US$376 million were made between 1968 and 1975. Thereafter, the
emphasis shifted to road rehabilitation and maintenance, to developments in
the agricultural sector, and to regional development programs. Since the
shift in strategy, the Bank made one loan for highway maintenance and
rehabilitation (US$114 million) and three loans for feeder roads, totaling
US$319 million. In addition, 11 ongoing rural development projects have
included feeder road components, totaling about 11,000 km. The highway
project for the Northwest Region Development Program (US$240 million) is a
component of a comprehensive program to harness the agricultural potential of
the Northwest Region. For the railway subsector, the Bank made four loans
between 1971 and 1980, totaling US$455 million. For the port subsectzr, the
Bank made one loan in 1971 (US$45 million). A summary of Bank assistance to
the transport sector is presented in Annex 1.
1.14      The Bank's current strategy in the transport sector is to support
efficient resource use. It would help to focus public investment upon
rehabilitation and maintenance rather than new construction, and upon
projects with a quick payback period, in particular those which generate



-5-
foreign exchange earnings and/or savings. It would contribute toward
rationalizing the operations of the public enterprises and improving their
financial performance, as well as toward providing adequate price signals to
the private sector. It would encourage conservation of energy in the
sector. The Bank would support institutional measures and policies directed
toward:
(a) strengthening the planning process at the level of the Ministry
of Transport, emphasizing policy formulation, definition of
planning objectives and operational targets, and intermodal
coordination;
(b) developing and implementing, within the uDdal agencies,
appropriate planning and management tools and procedures; and
(c) improving the operational efficiency of the public enterprises,
with appropriate tariff and cost-recovery policies.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Subsector Organization and the Network
2.01      Responsibilities for the administration of the Brazilian road
network are split by jurisdiction. DNER is responsible for the federal
network while the state networks are administered by the State Highway
Departments (DERs). The DERs report to state secretariats of transport,
which, in turn, are responsible to state governors. Responsibility for local
roads rests with the municipal governments. However, agreements have been
entered into between agencies for execution of certain functions on each
other's roads; DNER has sometimes built state roads, and maintenance of
federal highways and municipal roads has been done by the states.
2.02      About 7% of Brazil's roads (1.3 million km) are federal highways,
9% are state highways and 84% are municipal roads. In 1982, about 45,500 km
of the 90,000-km federal system were paved. Complementary to the federal
network, there are 118,000 km of state highways, of which about 29,000 km are
paved. The highest concentration of psved highways is in the Southeast and
Northeast of the country (Table 2.1).
2.03      The major growth of the federal highway system occurred between
1964 and 1976, an average increase of about 18% per annum. Between 1976 and
1982, the increase declined to some 22 per annum, reflecting the shift in
emphasis to maintenance and rehabilitation. The pavements had started to
deteriorate rapidly as a consequence of unanticipated increase in heavy
vehicular traffic; priority had to be given to the rehabilitation of the
network, particularly in the light of declining availability of funds.
B. Traffic
2.04      DNER collects, on a regular basis, traffic data on the Federal
Highway Network, disaggregated by seven vehicle categories. Vehicle
classification is adequate for engineering design and economic analysis



- 6 -
purposes. Traffic counts for the period 1969-1979, covering most of the
network, were incorporated and analyzed in the Road Traffic Census, published
by the Planning Directorate in 1982.
2.05      The Federal Highway Network exhibits a wide variation in traffic
densities, reflecting the uneven pattern of spatial development. Regional
average daily traffic (ADT) volumes range from some 3,500 vehicles in the
more developed Southeast to about 500 vehicles in the North. On the paved
network, ADT regional averages vary between 1,200 and 3,700, while volumes
between 160 and 660 are registered on the unpaved network (Table 2.2). These
figures suggest that there is still considerable potential for economic
investments in paving, particularly on the Southern and Southeastern
networks, where some 5,500 km of unpaved roads have ADT volumes above 400.
2.06      Annual traffic growth on Federal Highways was considerable in the
1970s, although increasing at a lower rate in the period 1976-1980. More
recently, following the decline in economic activity, traffic levels
stabilized, or even marginally declined. The traffic mix is increasingly
dominated by heavy vehicles.   Available evidence on car fuel consumption
shows that combined final demand for gasoline and alcohol in 1982 was some 5%
below the corresponding 1976 level, on a ton of oil equivalent basis.
Simultaneously, diesel-oil used by commercial vehicles grew at about 8% per
annum in the period 1976-1980, and consumption in 1982 was some 2% above its
1980 level (Table 2.3). The average composition of traffic flows on the
Federal Highway Network is currently estimated at 48% trucks, 46% automobiles
and 6% buses. The proportion of heavy traffic makes an adequate maintenance
policy of vital economic importance.
2.07      DNER's aggregated forecasts for traffic growth, by vehicle type,
were reviewed during appraisal. They assume plausible prospects for economic
growth and take into account foreseeable developments in the Government's
fuel pricing policy. Traffic projections adequately reflect a policy of
energy conservation in transport, targeted at greater efficiency in truck use
and at promoting intermodal substitution. As a result, traffic volumes would
basically maintain their present level and composition up to 1986.
Thereafter, truck and bus traffic are expected to increase at about 4% p.a.
and car traffic at about 2% p.a. DNER would periodically update its traffic
forecasts in the context of the Pavement Management System (PMS) (para 4.18).
C. Road Transport
(i) Road Transport Industry
2.08      Road transport is the most important mode for the haulage of
freight in Brazil. The industry is reasonably efficient, with load factors
of about 60% (higher than in most Cono Sur countries) and average carrying
capacity of some ten tons in 1978, although the fleet is getting
progressively old, with an average age of more than six years. Freight
transport is basically unregulated; entry into the industry, provision of
services and tariffs charg'-d are free of Government control. There have been
periodic attempts to regulate certain aspects of trucking, e.g., entry and
route allocation. The Federal Government is analyzing the improvement of
safety regulations and the better enforcement of vehicle and trucker
registration (para 2.15). Although this action may lead, in the future, to



- 7 -
some form of regulation, the Government is aware of the benefits of keeping a
competitive trucking industry.
2.09      Truck overloading appears to be widespread, and enforcement of
vehicle weight regulations has been traditionally lax. DNER is currently
installing, with Bank assistance (Loans 1075-BR and 1557-BR), a comprehensive
system of weighing stations. Some DERs are also taking measures to improve
enforcement on roads under their jurisdiction. Progress would continue to be
monitored under the proposed project, which would also assist in measures to
strengthen the enforcement capability of the Federal Highway Police, which
comes under DNER's Directorate of Transit (para 4.12).
2.10      The considerable increase in freight transported by road up to
1980 has been accompanied by a significant growth of the cargo fleet. As of
1982, there were about 1.9 million cargo vehicles in Brazil, accounting for
some 16X of the total vehicle fleet. Within the cargo fleet, light
commercials represented some 46% of the total, with light/medium trucks and
heavy trucks accounting for about 41% and 13% respectively (Table 2.4). In
addition, there has been a significant structural change in the composition
of the truck fleet since 1971, with an increasing proportion of light and
very heavy trucks replacing intermediate weight units.
2.11      The structural transformation of the fleet has been accompanied by
an increasing reliance on diesel-oil as a motor-fuel. As of 1982, diesel-oil
consumption by road cargo transport accounted for some 51% of the total
consumption of that fuel in Brazil (Table 2.5). Almost 80% of trucks used in
inter-regional freight operations are diesel-oil powered, and they account
for almost the total consumption of diesel-oil by the road cargo transport
fleet (Table 2.4). The Government is aware of the potential for economic
conservation of diesel-oil in non-urban road transport and is launching a
diesel-oil savings campaign. The campaign would promote retrofitting of the
truck and bus fleets and better vehicle maintenance and driving behavior, and
it would encourage domestic manufacturers to increase the fuel-efficiency of
new vehicles.
(ii) Automotive Fuel Pricing
2.12      Fuel prices in Brazil are determined by the National Petroleum
Council (CNP), in the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), and reviewed by
SEPLAN, through the Secretariat for Supply and Prices (SEAP). Retail prices
of petioleumr-based automotive fuels cover, with a considerable margin, the
corresponding opportunity costs. As of December 1983, the retail price for
gasoline's close substitute, gasohol 1/, net of distribution charges and
retailers' margins, was some 87% above the international price of gasoline,
c.i.f. at Santos, while diesel-oil was priced at some 24% above the estimated
opportunity cost (Table 2.6). The retail price for gasohol was US$0.47 per
liter, while diesel-oil was retailing at US$0.32 per liter. The retail price
of domestically produced hydrated biomass alcohol, also used directly as a
1/  Blend of 73 RON (Research Octane Number) gasoline with domestically
produced anhydrous biomass alcohol, in a proportion not exceeding 20%.
Vehicles using this blend are as equally fuel-efficient as vehicles using
the higher grade gasolinie it replaces. No straight gasoline is sold in
Brazil.



- 8 -
motor fuel in passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, has been fixed at
59% of the retail price of gasohol, basically to provide incentives for
inter-fuel substitution and to offset the 20% lower fuel efficiency of
alcohol-powered vehicles, as compared to similar gasohol-powered vehicles.
2.13      The level of the relative retail price of gasoline's close
substitute, gasohol, with respect to diesel-oil, when compared to the
corresponding international prices, constitutes a potential misleading signal
to consumers concerning the relative scarcity of both fuels (Table 2.6).
This is basically the outcome of the Government's fuel pricing policy,
targeted at covering opportunity costs while fostering replacement of
petroleum products by renewable domestic energy sources, whenever economi-
cally and technically feasible. Since there is not a feasible substitute for
diesel-oil, its retail price has been kept substantially below the retail
price of gasohol. There is still potential for more conservation of diesel-
oil, through adequate price signals to consumers and to the domestic truck
manufacturing industry, toward medium-term improvements in new vehicle fuel
efficiency. The Government is aware of the problem and has taken direct
action to restrain the growth of diesel-fueled light commercial vehicles. In
addition, the Government's policy is to continue increasing diesel-oil prices
at a rate equal to or higher than gasoline in the periodic price increases
for petroleum derivatives, and, moreover, to at least maintain the real price
of diesel-oil at its current level, until June 1985 (para 4.01). This would
be consistent with its policy, since 1981, of progressively decreasing the
retail price differential between gasohol and diesel-oil. As of December
1983, that differential was 1.48 as compared with a peak 2.10 ratio in 1981.
Furthermore, since trucks are the most destructive users of road infrastruc-
ture and since fuel taxation constitutes one way to recover variable costs of
road use, the Government is taking steps to adjust its cost-recovery policy,
taking into account taxation levied on diesel-oil (para 2.15).
(iii) Road User Charges
2.14      A complex system of road user charges has been developed,
originally to fund road expenditures at the three levels of Government, and
also to fund energy-related programs and raise general revenue. The main
charges include a combination of fuel taxes, a motor vehicle registration
tax, tolls, and a road transport tax levied on inter-state and inter-
municipal freight and passenger movements (Table 2.7). Overall, revenues
raised from these main taxes, and levied on users of the federal highway
network, are below total DNER net expenditures, but they would cover
foreseeable medium-term maintenance costs if left at their present level.
However, some cross-subsidization exists, with light vehicles on highways and
rural roads being over-charged, with respect to road damage, through high
gasoline taxation, while heavy trucks, in the aggregate, are likely to make
insufficient contributions to the variable road costs attributable to them.
The relatively lower level of net taxation on diesel-oil is only partially
offset by the road transport tax, since revenues raised through this tax are
small because of the difficulties faced in its collection. The motor vehicle
tax, which is based on vehicle age, favors older vehicles and therefore
discriminates against fleet renewal with more efficient vehicles.
2.15      Some adjustments are needed in the road user tax system to ensure
that all heavy vehicle operators are charged at least for short-run marginal
costs of road use, consistently with the Government's policy for cost



- 9 -
recovery, and to correct the structure of the motor vehicle registration
tax. One alternative would be to increase the taxation element in diesel-oil
prices in order to cover the entire marginal cost attributable to the
heaviest vehicles and, possibly, to discontinue the road transport tax. This
alternative would provide incentives to diesel-oil conservation, consistent
with the Government's energy policy, and would decrease the high adminis-
trative costs associated with the road transport tax. However, it could
slightly overcharge light truck and bus use of highways. Another alternative
would be to enforce the systematic collection of the road transport tax,
which may be better related to road deterioration than fuel consumption.
This alternative would require the completion of the national registry system
of the trucking industry. MT is currently promoting the review of the road
user tax system in the broader context of a policy for the financing of the
highway subsector at the Federal, State and Municipal levels. This review,
which is being done in collaboration with representatives of several
Ministries, including SEPLAN, MME, Industry and Commerce and Agriculture,
also takes into account energy demand management and other policy objectives
(para 4.01). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
that: (a) a plan of action for the revision of its road user charges system
would be furnished to the Bank, for its comments, not later than January 31,
1985; and (b) the road user charges system would be revised in accordance
with such plan of action, taking into consideration the comments made by the
Bank.
D. Administration - Federal Network
'i) DNER's Organization
2.16      DNER, established in 1937, is organized as shown in Chart 26201.
Construction and the maintenance of federal highways are the responsibility
of the Directorates of Works and Maintenance respectively. The Planning
Directorate is responsible for long term planning and programing, feasibility
studies and project preparation, including detailed engineering. The Transit
Directorate monitors and supervises the operation of the system; it controlp
the federal highway police, enforces axle weight regulations, and administers
the highway safety program. There are two Road Transport Directorates
responsible, respectively, for freight and passenger transport. Their
activities include the licensing of authorized carriers as well as other
administrative aspects of road transport, such as bus and cargo terminals and
operating regulations. The Personnel and Administration Directorates take
care of DNER's administrative and financial functions. The Instituto de
Pesquisas Rodoviarias (IPR), established in 1957 and transferred from the
National Research Council to DNER in 1972, is responsible for road research
and training. DNER operates in each state through its Federal Highway
District (DRF). Each DRE is further broken down into -residencias," which
are operational units in charge of road construction and maintenance
activities.
2.17      DNER is a well established institution which administered a massive
highway construction program in the late 1960s and early 1970s, and has been
the executing agency for seven Bank-financed road projects. The change in
emphasis in DNER's functions in recent years from extensive highway construc-
tion programs to road maintenance and rehabilitation required institutional
adjustments, which have been introduced gradually. The transformation has
been slow, and there are several areas where further measures are required
for improved efficiency. Some of these measures, such as an integrated
approach to planning, improved management systems for routine maintenance and



- 10 -
the equipment fleet and broadening of staff training, are being addressed by
the proposed project. Furthermore, DNER is in the process of reviewing its
organizational structure with a view toward introducing the necessary changes
for increased operational efficiency. However, the generally low public
service salary levels and the freeze on recruitment require attention by the
Government since they have lowered staff morale and reduced flexibility for
meeting staffing requirements. To compensate for this shortcoming, DNER
hires consultants to strengthen certain Directorates within the organization
and also to carry out specific assignments. DNER presently employs about
27,000 persons, including about 1,500 professional staff, predominantly
engineers, well experienced in their respective fields.
(ii) Highway Planning and Financing
2.18      Until 1978, DNER had a de facto financial independence, based on
assured and growing revenues from earmarked taxes, which represented over 50%
of the total available funds. Thus, DNER acquired a high degree of
flexibility with respect to planning and execution of works. Financial
constraints rarely had any adverse effect on work programs; in case of need,
DNER was usually able to secure additional funds through borrowing (domestic
or foreign) and/or additional budgetary allocations from the Government.
2.19      During the second part of the 1970s, DNER's financial situation
began to change; earmarked taxes were being phased out, and the possibilities
of borrowing decreased.  By 1980, DNER's revenues (including the budget
allocation from the Government) were about two-thirds the amount of the
mid-1970s. This reduction was accompanied by significant changes in the
distribution among different expenditure items. A reduction of investment in
new road construction, while partly caused by overall fund shortages, also
reflected the increased importance accorded by DNER to maintenance and
rehabilitation works. However, as the overall economic situation worsened in
the early 1980s, it became increasingly difficult for DNER to obtain
sufficient funds, and, in some instances, projects had to be suspended. The
Bank's Special Action Program eased the financial constraints for works under
ongoing Bank-financed projects and helped to accelerate implementation.
(iii) Highway Engineering and Construction
2.20      DNER's Planning Directorate administers the preparation of highway
projects mainly through contracts with domestic consulting firms. DNER
adopted advanced design standards and construction methods in the early
1970s. However, in the past, as pointed out in the PCR for the Second
Highway Project, geological studies were insufficient, especially in
mountainous terrain. Because of this deficiency, landslides and erosions
occurred over several sections of the network, damaging bridges and
roadways. In recent designs, such as that for the Cuiaba-Porto Velho highway
(Loan 2062-BR), more attention was given to these aspects.
2.21      Design criteria adopted for overlay and pavement strengthening
followed methodologies developed in other countries. It was recognized,
however, that high priority should be given to the development of design
norms for pavement works that were compatible with local conditions and
experience. Under one of IPR's research projects (para 2.36), a new code was
developed and is being introduced for the design of pavement overlay and
surface treatment. The application of the new method is expected to lead to
a more rational allocation of resources for future overlay and pavement
strengthening works.



- 11 -
2.22      The Brazilian construction industry is well developed, experienced,
and highly competitive, particularly in the present, relatively subdued
economic climate. DNER's records show that some 100 firms would qualify for
undertaking highway construction/rehabilitation works. Although all major
civil works under previous Bank-financed projects were open to international
competitive bidding (ICB), foreign firms did not participate.
2.23      Site supervision of civil works is usually carried out by local
consultants under the control of the DRFs. At headquarters, DNER's Works
Directorate is responsible for supervising and coordinating construction
contracts, while the Maintenance Directorate is responsible for routine
maintenance, overlay and rehabilitation contracts.
(iv) Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation
2.24      Prior to 1970, all routine maintenance works on the federal highway
network were carried out by force account. The rapid expansion of the
network, combined with constraints on increasing the labor force, prompted
DNER partly to delegate the maintenance of the federal highway network to
DERs and the Army and partly to contract maintenance works to the private
sector. Initially, greater emphasis was given to the delegation program,
and, by 1976, about 49% of the network was maintained by DERs and the Army,
while 28% was maintained under contract and the remaining 23% by DNER force
account. The phasing in of contract maintenance accelerated during the late
1970s, and, at present, its share is 46% versus 34% of delegated maintenance
and 20% of DNER force account operations. About 55% of delegated maintenance
is being carried out by DERs of Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul and Parana.
The road maintenance capabilities of these DERs were strengthened under the
Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects.
2.25      Over the next three to four years, DNER intends to continue these
three forms of routine maintenance operations, with a tendency to further
increase the share of contract maintenance and reduce force account
operations but to maintain the delegation program at its present level.
Concurrently, DNER, with the help of improved technical and administrative
procedures, would assess the cost effectiveness of operations for all these
modes, for comparative purposes, to determine longer term strategy. Also, by
mid-1984, DNER intends to phase out the traditional cost-plus-percentage-fee
contracts in favor of unit-price contracts.
2.26      The cost of routine maintenance varies between US$450 and US$1,900
equivalent per km, depending upon the condition of the road, the level of
traffic and climatic conditions. Expenditures on routine maintenance during
the last six years declined gradually. The 1984 budget provides, on the
average, only about US$600 equivalent per km. The primary interstate system
carrying the larger portion of traffic, however, would receive adequate
allocation of funds, while the less important, mainly unpaved roads, would
receive a less-than-desirable level of funding. DNER's budget for years
1985, 1986 and 1987 indicates a 70% increase in funding for routine
maintenance, corresponding to an average allocation of US$1,000 equivalent
per km. This higher level of funding, taking into consideration the
accelerated rehabilitation program and the paving program over the same
period, would lead to a greatly improved level of routine maintenance.



- 12 -
2.27      Under the Fifth Highway Project, DNER's Maintenance Directorate
developed a management system for routine maintenance (SAC). Although the
system is being used for the preparation of tenders for contract maintenance,
it has not been applied regularly by the DRFs for force account maintenance.
However, DNER intends to introduce SAC progressively for force account
operation in selected maintenance districts. The maintenance standards and
related costs for SAC have not been updated since 1980. In order to improve
the cost effectiveness of routine maintenance and the efficiency of
maintenance management, agreement was reached during negotiations that DNER
would: ti) fully adopt unit-price contracting for routine maintenance after
mid-1985; (ii) introduce SAC, for force account operations, to at least six
DRE districts by July 1, 1985; and (iii) revise maintenance standards and
related cost estimates and establish a computerized system for their
two-yearly update by August 31, 1984.
2.28      Since DNER would maintain, through DRFs, about 20% of the federal
network, the efficiency of operations, to a large degree, would depend upon a
reliable and well administered vehicle and equipment fleet. Furthermore,
DNER intends to continue leasing equipment for contractors undertaking
routine maintenance. More than 50% of the present fleet, of about 4,000
units, is more than seven years old, and only about 8% is less than three
years old. DNER intends to initiate a program for overhauling units with
sufficient life expectancy as part of an overall assessment of the condition
of its equipment fleet, as well as its present system of equipment manage-
ment, with assistance to be provided under the proposed project (para 4.19).
2.29      The bulk of the Federal Highway network was constructed between the
1960s and mid-1970s. A large proportion of this network, as well as the
sections built earlier, is rapidly deteriorating as a consequence of aging
(pavement fatigue) and higher-thaa-expected growth in traffic and loading.
The Government recognized the problem and, in the mid-1970s, initiated a
Highway Rehabilitation Program comprising the overlay, strengthening and
reconstruction of a part of the network. Under the Sixth Highway Project,
finance was provided for about 2,300 km of pavement strengthening and
rehabilitation work, which is expected to be completed by late 1984.
However, in the period 1981-1982, the amount of strengthening and resealing
works decreased substantially, basically because of reductions in the global
funding level for DNER.
2.30      Results of a network inventory conducted in 1979 showed that, for
the 45,000 km of the federal paved network, about 10,500 km were in need of
rehabilitation and some 22,000 km would require resealing. Since then, the
network experienced further deterioration, partly as a result of the
sub-optimal maintenance strategy followed from 1980 onward. This was
confirmed by an update of the survey on pavement condition carried out, on a
sample basis, by DRER during project preparation (Table 2.8). Results of the
survey also showed that almost 70% of the sections in bad and very bad
condition had ADTs below 2,000, indicating that preventive maintenance such
as reseal and thin overlays of a higher number of lower trafficked roads was
neglected in favor of rehabilitating fewer, but highly trafficked, roads.
2.31      Over the past five years, the DNER Directorates have gathered data
and developed methodologies for improving the decision-making process related
to each Directorate. Although some progress has been made toward approaching



- 13 -
the planning and budgeting of DNER's pluriannual investment programs in a
comprehensive jianner, further improvements are still required. Since there
will be an increasing need for an appropriate mechanism for investment
decisions, a more systematic approach than exists at present would be
required for an integrated planning and budgetary programing system. DNER
intends to develop this approach through the expansion of its Pavement
Management System in accordance with a policy directive issued recently by
the Director General of DNER (para 4.18).
(v) Highway Safety
2.32    Following the significant extension of the highway network in the
late 1960s, combined with the rapid increase in vehicle registration by the
early 1970s, vehicle accidents reached an alarmingly high level, particularly
on the federal highway system. In 1973, DNER assumed an important role in
highway safety by establishing a highway police force, increasing various
road safety measures, particularly pavement marking and road signing, and
initiating a highway safety campaign. It also introduced an 'Accident
Evaluation Program," with the primary purpose of collecting and analyzing
traffic accident data for the federal highway system. There is statistical
evidence that, between 1975 and 1981, there was a decline in road traffic
accidents which, to a great degree, is attributable to these measures. In
the following years, however, the level of accidents increased, possibly
because of the declining level of investment by DNER in road safety. DNER
identified the following major areas requiring priority action:
(a) high accident location improvements;
(b) elimination of the existing backlog in pavement marking;
(c) increase of the highway police force; and
(d) reactivation of the education and media campaign.
The Government has requested the Bank's support, under the proposed project,
for DNER's highway safety program, incorporating the preceding components
(paras 4.10 to 4.13).
(vi) Training
2.33      IPR's training division is responsible for training at higher and
middle management levels, ranging from multi-year studies toward masters or
doctoral degrees to specialized study courses of a few days' duration. These
courses have been developed, and are carried out, in conjunction with
Brazilian universities and training institutions. Apart from DNER personnel,
the courses are open to private individuals and staff of state highway
departments. The training division is funded from IPR's regular
appropriations for administrative expenses, which tends to limit the amount
of training that it can undertake.
2.34      The Bank, under earlier highway projects, assisted DNER, as well as
three DERs (Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais, and Parana), with their
maintenance programs. Assistance has also recently started in Rondonia under
Loan 2062-BR. In addition to the financing of physical facilities and



- 14 -
purchase of equipment, maintenance management systems and training programs
were developed for DNER and the above-mentioned DERs. Furthermore, some
fellowships were available for maintenance staff in France and the United
States in recent years. While training courses for middle and higher level
staff have also been conducted by IPR, there has not been an appropriate
institutional framework for broad-based training for DRF and DER personnel
engaged in routine maintenance operations. For this reason, DNER has
developed a program to strengthen the capability of IPR and selected DRFs and
DERs to design and implement training programs for maintenance personnel at
all levels under the proposed project (para 4.14).
(vii) Highway Research
2.35      IPR is responsible for technological studies and research, for
training and conference activities and for information and documentation in
road engineering. It currently has three divisions: Research, Training and
Conferences, and the Techno-Scientific Documentation Division. IPR operates
from its own facilities at the Centro Rodoviario, outside Rio de Janeiro,
which has office and laboratory facilities, as well as a circular test track
for pavement testing. IPR's present staff is about 180, of which 40 are
professional, mostly research engineers.
2.36      IPR has, over the last few years, engaged itself in certain very
important studies. It made a major contribution to the research on the
Interrelationship between Costs of Highway Construction, Maintenance and
Utilization 2/, carried out by GEIPOT, which has resulted in an economic
planning model for highway design and maintenance policies in Brazil and
elsewhere.   It has also carried out a Pavement Research Study 3/, which,
through field experiments and analyses, including use of the data from the
GEIPOT Study, has resulted in a new design code for pavement overlay and
surface treatment, based on methodologies developed for pavement evaluation
and prediction of pavement performance.
2.37      The general decline in DNER's budget in recent years has also
affected IPR's operations, and several research projects have been delayed.
IPR now intends to accelerate its operations and undertake research in the
important fields of highway engineering such as soils and materials, traffic
and safety, and equipment utilization and management (para 4.16).
(viii) Accounting and Auditing
2.38      The Administrative Directorate is responsible for DNER's accounting
and financial functions; it is manned by competent professionals. The
accounting system is properly organized and adequate for the overall control
of DNER's finances. Budgeting is the responsibility of the Planning
Directorate, and, since budgetary accounting control is performed by the
Administrative Directorate, close coordination between the two Directorates
is imperative for reliable btugeting.
2/ Financed by the Government of Brazil, with assistance initially from UNDP
and subsequently from the Bank (through the Sixth Highway Project and
assigned staff).
3/ Financed under the Sixth Highway Project.



- 15 -
2.39      Control of project expenditures is carried out in many stages. The
contractor's certificate is approved for physical, technical, budgetary,
contractual and financial appropriateness by DNER's resident engineers, who
are responsible for supervision. Thereafter, the payment is approved by
district and regional managers, by the appropriate Directorate (construction,
maintenance, etc.) and financial division and, finally, by the Director
General of DNER or his representative. The procedure is well defined, and
adhered to, and meets legal requirements.
2.40      DNER has two internal audit offices reporting directly to the
Director General and to his Deputy, respectively. One office is responsible
for legal, administrative and financial matters and the other for the audit
of systems, technical planning and implementation of the investment
programs. Both offices are staffed adequately and provide good audit support
to DNER's management.
2.41      External audits are carried out by the Ministry of Transport, by
the Secretaria Central de Controle Interno (SCCI) of SEPLAN (National Audit
Office within the Ministry of Planning) and by the Tribunal de Contas da
Uniao (TCU). To avoid overlapping of work, the Transport Ministry's audit
functions will be transferred to SCCI after 1984.
2.42      SCCI is a strong audit unit, staffed with qualified and experienced
accountants and auditors who are members of recognized accounting organiza-
tions. The techniques used are in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards, and SCCI's audit reports meet Bank requirements. On
completion of an audit, SCCI submits its report and audit certificate to
TCU. TCU is the highest Federal auditing authority in the country; it is
responsible to the Congress, and its independence is provided for in Brazil's
constitution. TCU's own audit certificate (and recommendation, if any) is
usually issued within about one year after the end of DNER's financial year.
III. DNER's 1984-1987 PROGRAM
A. Rolling Three-Year Budget
3.01      DNER's budget over the 1984-1986 period would increase at a real
rate of less than 2% p.a., in the absence of the proposed project
(Table 3.1). As a result, total net expenditure, by 1986, would be at about
70% of the corresponding 1983 level and less than 40% of its level in the
late 1970s. During that period, both current and capital expenditures would
remain at about the same level. In 1987, a 13% increase in DNER's net budget
availability would allow for a 26% increase in capital expenditures with
respect to 1986, bringing them, in any case, to less than 50% of the average
level in the late 1970s. Overall, the capital budget in the 1984-1987 period
would account for 51% of DNER's net budget, as compared to about 45% in the
late 1970s, basically reflecting a considerable decline in current
expenditures.
3.02      During the 1984-1987 period, expenditures in new construction and
paving would gradually decrease. During miat period, the works on the
Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway, financed under Bank Loan 2062-BR, would be



- 16 -
concluded. Accordingly, the construction and paving budget would decline,
from about 52% of the total capital budget in 1984, to some 31% in 1987.
During this period, a limited quantity of paving works would be progressively
undertaken, while the pace of implementation of the bypass and urban
expressway program would be kept at the same level, accounting for less than
13% of the capital expenditures in 1987. Investments in bypasses and urban
expressways could yield adequate economic returns, having, simultaneously, a
favorable impact, on a per unit of investment basis, upon fuel savings
through reduction in road-related fuel consumption. Such investments, if
maintained at their present level, would have an economic role, consistent
with Government energy strategy, targeted at fostering fuel conservation in
the road transport subsector.
3.03      Expenditures on routine maintenance would increase gradually over
the 1984-1987 period, rising from about 11% of the capital budget in 1984 to
more than 14% in 1987. Although that level of budgetary allocation would be
below the levels achieved during the 1970s, it would allow for an adequatc
level of recurrent maintenance activities to be carried out, given present
budget constraints and the foreseeable extension of the network under DNER's
responsibility. In addition, increasing efficiency in maintenance operations
is achievable and would contribute toward enhancing the impact of such
expenditure upon the level of service. Training for DNER's maintenance staff
would contribute toward increased productivity, while major savings can be
expected from the shift to unit-price contracts and research on maintenance
techniques and management.
3.04      The average level of investments in traffic management between 1984
and 1987 would be some 25Z above the corresponding value in the period
1981-1983, as a result of DNER's renewed commitment to the betterment of
safety conditions, but it would still remain below 70% of the level of
expenditures in the late 1970s. As of 1987, such expenditures would amount
to less than 4% of the total capital budget. Although this investment level
would represent some improvement, it would be insufficient to enable DNER to
fully overcome the backlog in pavement marking and to equip its expanding
highway police force adequately.
3.05      Expenditures in rehabilitation and strengthening would reach a peak
low 4% share of the total capital budget in 1985, reflecting the completion
of the Bank-financed Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR). From 1986 onward,
the rehabilitation effort would be stepped up, accounting for some 37% of the
total capital expenditures in 1987. This would be insufficient to satisfy
the federal network requirements. The budgeted investment level over the
1984-1987 period would allow for less than 30% of the backlog of periodic
maintenance works to be carried out. As a result, road condition on a
considerable portion of the network would deteriorate to a point where,
eventually, more costly reconstruction works would be required. From the
budgetary point of view, this would require higher investment in the future
than if resources for rehabilitation and strengthening would be available in
the short term. In any case, should additional resources be made available,
their level would most likely be below detected investment requirements. As
such, the definition of an optimum maintenance strategy, capable of assisting
in economically balancing expenditures in distinct categories of works, under
budget constraints, is thus critical.



- 17 -
B. Investment Plan 1984-1987
3.06      DNER is aware of the inadequacies in budget allocations for
different categories of investments, arising from forseeable global budget
availability in the period 1984-1987. In addition, flexibility for major
budget reallocations is limited since available resources are committed to
the conclusion of ongoing works or to expenditures of utmost economic
priority. In order to achieve a more adequate highway program, DNER
developed a four-year investment plan, consolidating periodic maintenance,
road safety, training and research requirements. This plan basically
involves, over the 1984-1987 period, 123X and 71% increase in allocations to
rehabilitation and strengthening, and to safety, respectively, with regard to
the programed budget levels in the absence of the proposed plan. Overall,
during the same period, the capital budget would increase by some 26X,
accounting for 56% of DNER's net budget. This would bring it more in line
with the level of the early 1980s, although with much greater emphasis upon
maintenance and safety expenditures (Table 3.2).
3.07      The implementation of DNER's proposed investment plan would involve
an estimated financing gap of about constant US$386 million, over the
1984-1987 period, of which 85% would be accounted for by rehabilitation and
resealing expenditures, 111 by road safety and the remaining 4% by training
and research. The four-year investment plan constitutes the basis for the
proposed Bank loan. Bank participation would assist DNER in implementing a
balanced four-year investment program by providing financing primarily for
the foreign exchange costs of the selected components. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with the Government that DNER would periodically review
its highway program and present it to the Bank, not later than July 1 of each
year, in accordance with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the
Bank and would regularly provide for funding through the rolling three-year
budget programing process.
IV. BANK PARTICIPATION
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01      The proposed project would contribute to the balance of payments,
basically by supporting export promotion, and through conservation of largely
imported motor fuels. Adequate priority would be given to maintenance and
rehabilitation of roads located in the export corridors or serving centers of
key economic importance. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government on the preparation of a comprehensive strategy to promote
conservation of diesel-oil, through a study analyzing the major factors
affecting consumption of that fuel, to be conducted according to terms of
reference to be furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1984. The recommenda-
tions of such study, to be completed not Later than June 30, 1985, and to be
put into effect thereafter, would take into account the relevant conclusions
from MT's review of the road user charges system. Provisions under the
project would also lead to fuel conservation, through improved speed limit
enforcement and driving behavior, while assisting research efforts to improve
the aerodynamics of the existing vehicle fleet. In addition, the project



- 18 -
would assist DNER in economically balancing rehabilitation and resealing
expenditures, under budget constraints, and in systematically integrating
maintenance management and planning into the rolling three-year public sector
budget programing process. This would contribute toward strengthening the
economic planning framework by fostering improved analysis and better
institutional coordination. The proposed project is the continuation of Bank
involvement in the financing of the rehabilitation of the Federal Highway
Network.
B. Project Scope
4.02      In line with the rationale outlined in the preceding paragraph,
the proposed project has been formulated to support DNER in the effective
implementation of a series of programs included in its 1984-1987 Investment
Plan; it comprises:
I - Highway Rehabilitation
(a) civil works contracts for pavement overlay, strengthening and
rehabilitation of about 4,000 km of federal highways;
(b) consulting services for supervision of civil works; and
Cc) consulting services for detailed engineering for overlay,
strengthening and rehabilitation of a further 4,000 km of
federal highways.
II - Highway Safety
(a) improvement of high accident locations ("black spots"):
(i) consultant services for studies, engineering and
construction supervision; and
(ii) civil works contracts;
(b) contracts for pavement marking and striping;
(c) highway safety education program and public campaign; and
(d) procurement of vehicles, communications equipment, and speed
measuring devices for highway police units.
III - Road Maintenance Training for DNER and DER Maintenance Personnel
(a) provision of physical training facilities, including building
improvements, furnishings and fixtures;
(b) procurement of road maintenance and workshop equipment, spares
and tools and audio visual equipment;
(c) operation of Road Training Production Units (RTPUs) and
Mechanical Training Production Units (MTPUs); and
(d) engagement of consultants and instructors to assist IPR in the
planning and implementation of the training program.



- 19 -
IV - Technical Assistance
(a) consultant services for hlghway research and for the further
development of PHS and EMS;
(b) training abroad of DNER professional staff; and
(b) purchase of research equipment and microcomputers.
4.03      Because of the policy and institutional content of the project and
in recognition of DNER's experience in project implementation, achieved by
long-term involvement with the Bank, a (sub)sector loan format is proposed,
whereby the project is designed to finance a "time-slice' of selected
components of DNER's pluriannual investment program. This arrangement would
allow for sufficient flexibility in meeting changes in priorities brought
about by unavoidable fluctuations in budgetary resources. The sector format,
combined with the proposed provision of special accounts and project
revolving funds, would also constitute an effective vehicle for ensuring
quick resource transfer through disbursements in fast-engineered periodic
maintenance and safety works which constitute the bulk of the investment to
be financed under the proposed project.
4.04      The major categories of expenditures, i.e., overlaying,
rehabilitation and road-safety-related works and measures, to be financed
under the project would be defined annually on the basis of agreed criteria
and procedures for subproject selectlon and preparation. Two important
concepts to be considered in the sector format are the individual subprojects
and the contracts associated with the subprojects. The subproject is the
unit considered for purposes of selection, preparation and evaluatlon, while
contracts associated with the subprojects are the basis for disbursements.
C. Project Components
(i) Highway Rehabilitation
4.05      The main contribution of the proposed project would be to support
DNER's 1984-1987 Highway Rehabilitation Program under which overlay,
strengthening and rehabilitation of pavements are scheduled for about 9,300
km of federal highways at an estimated cost of US$596 million (Table 4.1).
About 43% of the program, I.e., about 4,000 km, at an estimated cost of
US$329 million, would be financed under the project. The 990 km of
rehabilitation works included in the program for 1984 represent the remaining
part of works being financed under the Sixth Highway Project. The same
project also Included detailed engineering for rehabilitating about 3,000 km
of federal highways. Bids for 1,570 km of rehabilitation works, which
constitute the first group (Group 1) of highway sections, have already been
called (para 4.23).
4.06      The 37 highway sections of Group I (Table 4.2 and Map) generally
represent segments of export corridors and trunk roads carrying heavy
commercial and industrial traffic. The roads, built, on the average, about
20 years ago, have satisfactory geometrics and adequate capacity. However,
their pavements, as a result of the higher-than-expected accumulated axle



- 20 -
loadings, have deteriorated to various degrees. About 30% of the pavements
in the first group require asphaltic overlay, while about 52% of the
pavements would also have to be strengthened by an additional 5-15 cm
asphaltic base course. The remaining 18%, because of subbase failures, would
have to be reconstructed. In addition to pavement works, roadside drainage
would also be improved, and, on heavily trafficked steep sections, climbing
lanes would be provided for slow-moving, heavy trucks.
4.07      Detailed engineering for the second and third group of highway
sections (each about 1,200 km) included in the rehabilitation program would
be carried out under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project. The selection of
these roads was based upon a detailed condition inventory of the paved
federal network carried out in 1979 and its subsequent update. Other
criteria in the selection process, such as the importance of the highway
section in the transport of export commodities, have also been applied.
However, before including these segments in the implementation program, a
further assessment of priorities would be made in accordance with the
criteria for subproject selection as outlined in paragraph 4.09. Screening
procedures for selecting about 4,000 km of highway sections for detailed
engineering to be carried out under the project would be as defined in
paragraph 4.08. These sections would constitute the fourth and subsequent
groups of roads to be included in the rehabilitation program.
4.08      The first step in the selection process would be the identification
of highway segments requiring overlaying or rehabilitation works, following
economic priorities consistent with the optimal maintenance strategy at the
network level.   This step should take into account detected needs, as given
by the road condition survey, and should be followed by a screening process
which would reflect road integration into the network serving a specific
export corridor, or export-related flows of commodities. DNER would prepare,
for each subproject, a technical and economic data sheet which would include
information concerning the rationale for subproject identification, the
alternatives considered and recommended design standards, the cost estimates,
the results of a preliminary economic evaluation and a tentative implementa-
tion schedule. The background information on subproject identification would
include, whenever required, origin-destination data, by commodity type, based
on roadside interview surveys. The alternatives and the recommended design
standard would be consistent wiLh the policy selected, including investment
timing, for the corresponding ranges of traffic and road condition, as
considered for the analysis of the maintenance program (para 4.39). As such,
the type of investments to be selected, given foreseeable budgetary
availability, would normally yield ERRs above 25%, and in no case would
subprojects with ERRs below 11% be considered. The Bank would study this
evaluation, request additional information, as required, and confirm
eligibility. At this stage, DNER would proceed to undertake detailed
engineering design.
4.09      Declaring a subproject eligible would mean agreement by the Bank to
the inclusion of the subproject in the pluriannual rehabilitation program,
provided budget funds are allocated, the detailed engineering has been
carried out in accordance with the agreed design standards, and a refined
economic analysis, reflecting specific traffic projections and the definitive
engineering design, would confirm the eligibility criteria. Economic
analysis of subprojects would be carried out following the methodology



- 21 -
developed during appraisal (para 4.39). During negotiations, it was agreed
that DNER would follow procedures acceptable to the Bank for subproject
identification and evaluation.
(ii) Highway Safety
4.10      The Accident Evaluation Program has so far identified about 1,800
high accident locations on the federal highway system which need to be
improved. "Black spots" would be evaluated individually to determine the
solution which could best reduce the number and severity of accidents, and
cost-benefit analyses would be performed to establish a priority ranking for
the improvement program. Within one year of implementation, an 'after" study
would be conducted at each improvement site to determine the effectiveness of
the solution. About 78% of DNER's -black spot" improvement program for
1984-1987 would be financed under the proposed project. DNER would be
assisted by consultants in carrying out the -before" and after- studies,
engineering and construction supervision. It was agreed during negotiations
that DNER would follow methodologies and procedures, acceptable to the Bank,
for the selection, evaluation and -after" studies of "black spot'
improvements.
4.11      Pavement marking and striping is an essential element of DNER's
highway safety program. As a consequence of the severe budget constraints
during 1982 and 1983, there is an estimated backlog of pavement marking on
about 20,000 km of the federal network. The proposed project provides for
the elimination of this backlog during 1984-1987, while DNER would carry out
routine restriping of about 25,000 km of the network during the same period.
4.12      The planned expansion of the highway traffic police force from its
present strength of 6,700 to 9,000 by 1987 and the replacement of existing
equipment indicate a need, over the next three years, for vehicles and
equipment such as radios and radar, for policing the federal highway
network. About 63% of DNER's 1984-1987 budget for traffic police equipment
would be financed under the project (Table 4.3).
4.13      Throughout most of the 1970s, Brazil staged a highly successful
traffic safety education campaign using newspapers, magazines, radio and TV
to reach a large portion of the public. The campaign, together with otbher
safety measures, contributed to the decline in the accident rate during the
second half of the decade.  The program was discontinued in 1980.  DNER. in
light of the reversed trend of accident rates in the early 1980s, decided to
reintroduce the public highway safety campaign, which is generally recognized
as a very effective element of the traffic safety program. The allocation
for the campaign represents about 3.5% of the cost of the Highway Safety
Program proposed to be financed under the project.
(iii) Training of DNER and DER Maintenance Personnel
4.14      The objective of the road maintenance training program (Annex 2) is
to strengthen the institutional capability of DNER (IPR and DRFs in the
Districts of Goias and Santa Catarina) and five DERs (selected from the
poorest northeastern states-Ceara, Maranhao, Para, Pernambuco and Rio Grande
do Norte) to prepare, implement and supervise training programs to upgrade
the skills of maintenance personnel at all levels. The program would be
designed for training some 2,900 DRF and DER maintenance engineers, foremen,



- 22 -
equipment operators, mechanics and accountants engaged in maintenance
management activities and routine road and equipment maintenance operations.
Training for engineers and other middle level staff would consist mainly of
courses and seminars to be conducted at IPR and the selected DRFs. Training
of DRF and DER road foremen, equipment operators/drivers and other basic
personnel would be carried out mostly in the field and workshops by adopting
a system of training through production. A Training Steering Committee,
consisting of senior DNER staff and a representative of DERs participating in
the program, would review the training policy periodically and provide
guidance for implementing the programs. DNER would enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement (Convenio) with each participating DER regarding administrative,
financial and operational arrangements for program implementation. DNER has
agreed to bear all the cost of the Training Program related to the par-
ticipating DERs, except the cost of new maintenance equipment, which would be
repaid to DNER in accordance with the terms and conditions to be agreed in
the Subsidiary Agreement.
4.15      Finance would be provided under the proposed loan for training
facilities, including building improvements, furnishings, offices and class-
room and training aids, as well as additional maintenance equipment for
training production units. Operating costs of RTPUs and MTPUs (fuel,
materials, per diem, transportation) for the DERs only, and per diems and
transportation costs for instructors and trainees attending IPR and DER
courses, would also be financed under the project. DNER would bear the full
operating costs, including per diems, of the DRF production units. The
proposed project provides for consultant services (106 man-months) required
to assist IPR in the formulation and implementation of the training program.
Further details and cost estimates of the training program are given in
Annex 2. During negotiations, agreement was reached that DNER would:
(a) appoint consultants, by August 1, 1984, to assist IPR in the planning and
implementation of the training program; and (b) as a condition for disburse-
ment for the training component, sign a Subsidiary Agreement with each of the
participating DERs regarding administrative, financial and operational
arrangements for implementing the program.
(iv) Highway Research
4.16      Because of budgetary constraints, IPR, without technical
assistance, would be able to support only a very limited research program.
Following discussions with DNER's Planning Directorate and IPR during project
appraisal, a program was drawn up for 1985-1987, consisting of research
projects related to soils and materials, traffic and highway safety, systems
development and equipment utilization (Annex 3).
4.17      Agreement was reached during negotiations that DNER would present
the Bank with detailed terms of reference for each study prior to its start,
together with estimated manpower requirements and costs as well as an
implementation schedule. These terms would be subject to approval by the
Bank before consultants or research specialists were invited to submit
proposals. Also, the Bank would review the progress of the studies on a
regular basis, and, upon completion, draft final reports would be submitted
for comments. Provision has also been made under the proposed project to
finance (a) special equipment and instruments required for research and five
microcomputers for DNER to facilitate data processing and project monitoring,



- 23 -
at an amount of US$300,000; and (b) short courses and seminars abroad for
DNER professional staff, at an amount of US$200,000.
(v) Pavement Management System (PMS)
4.18      In order to further develop PMS as an important element of the
planning and investment decision-making process, the terms of reference of
the Standing Committee on Pavement Management, which was established in
December 1982, have recently been broadened. In accordance with Service Ins-
truction No. 03/84 issued by the Director General of DNER in April 1984
(Annex 4), annual and pluriannual maintenance, rehabilitation and paving pro-
grams, optimized in terms of economic benefits and financial constraints,
would be prepared through routine operations of PMS. The programs would be
based on periodic inventory of the federal highway network, estimation of
pavement performance, and assessment of the most appropriate strategy and
timing for the various investment options. To facilitate the expeditious ex-
pansion of the PMS in accordance with the new directive, 58 man-months of
consultant services have been included in the proposed project for providing
specialist support to the Pavement Management Committee. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that DNER would implement a work
program (1984-1986), satisfactory to the Bank, for the expanded operation of
PMS, in accordance with policy guidelines contained in Service Instructions
No. 03/84.
(vi) Equipment Management System (EMS)
4.19      A Working Group in the Directorate of Maintenance, assisted by
consultants, would be responsible for carrying out a study with a view toward
improving DNER's Equipment Management System. The study, in addition to
undertaking fleet inventory and condition surveys, would also develop
improved procedures for servicing and repair of equipment, warehouse adminis-
tration, systematic acquisition of spare parts, evaluating equipment
availability and utilization, cost accounting and hire charging. Evaluation
of the existing practices and drawing up of a work plan would be undertaken
in Phase I over six months. The detailed formulation of EMS would be carried
out in Phase II, over a period of 18 months. Consultant services were
estimated at 156 man-months, including 30 man-months for foreign special-
ists.  Agreement was reached with the Government during negotiations that
DNER would engage consultants, by not later than October 1,-1984, to carry
out an EMS study in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
D. Cost Estimates
4.20      The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$449
million equivalent, based on March 1984 prices and including price con-
tingencies as shown in the table on the next page. Bank participation,
excluding price contingencies, is US$178.1 million, representing about 10% of
DNER's 1984-1987 capital budget. The cost estimates are based on represent-
ative detailed design of the various pavement improvements envisaged. The
estimated costs of items in the highway safety and training programs are



- 24 -
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
US$ Million (March 1984 Prices)
f.e.c. Bank Par-
Local  Foreign  Total   Z   ticipation Z
I. Highway Rehabilitation
(a) Civil works for 4,000 km              166.48  136.21  302.69  45   136.21   45
(b) Construction supervision               15.88    5.30   21.18  25      9.53   45
(c) Detailed engineering                    3.93    1.31    5.24  25      2.36   45
Subtotal                         186.29  142.82  329.11  43   148.10   45
II. Highway Safety
(a) Improvement of black spots'
(i) Analysis and engineering            2.14    0.72    2.86  25      1.29   45
(ii) Civil works                         9.30    7.60   16.90  45      7.60   45
(b) Pavement marking                        8.24    6.74   14.98  45      6.74   45
(c) Highway safety campaign                 1.05    0.45    1.50  30      0.68   45
(d) Vebicles and equipment                  4.24    3.46    7.70  45      3.46   45
Subtotal                         24.97   18.97   43.94  43    19.77   45
III. Road Maintenance Training
(a) Training facilities                     0.60    0.20    0.80  25      0.67   84
(b) Equipment, spares and tools             2.14    1.74    3.88  45      3.10   80
c) Operating cost of RTPUs and MTPUs       2.20    0.74    2.94  25      1.90   65
(d) Consultant Services and Training
Courses                               0.63    0.46    1.09  42       0.92   84
Subtotal                          5.57    3.14    8.71  36       6.59   76
IV. Technical Assistance
(a) Highway Research, Training
Abroad                                 2.10    0.90    3.00  30      2.40   80
(b) Consultant Services for PNS             0.20    0.11    0.31  35      0.26   84
Cc) Consultant Services for EMS             0.47    0.46    0.93  50      0.78   84
Cd) Equipment for Research                  0.11    0.19    0.30  63      0.24   80
2.88    1.66    4.54  36      3.68   81
Base Cost (March 1984)                    219.71  166.59  386.30  43   178.14   46
Price Contingencies 1/                     33.15   29.55   62.70          31.34
Total Project Cost 2/                     252.86  196.14  449.00        209.48
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan 3/                -      0.52    0.52           0.52
Total Financing Required                  252.86  196.66  449.52         210.00
1/  Price increases, in US$ terms, for foreign costs were calculated at 3.5% in 1984,
and for local and foreign costs at 8% for 1985 and 9% for 1986 and thereafter.
These figures, in conjunction with the forecast disbursement pattern, result in a
price contingency of about 16%. No price contingencies were calculated for local
expenditures in 1984 because of Government policy of devaluing the cruzeiro at a
rate equivalent to domestic inflation without adjusting for international
inflation.
2/  Identifiable local taxes and duties are about US$76.33 million equivalent and the
total project cost, net of taxes, is US$372.67 million equivalent.
3/  The precise amount of the Front-End Fee is US$523,691.



- 25 -
based on sample calculations using prevailing price estimates for materials,
equipment and labor. The cost estimates for consultant services are based on
current local and foreign man-month rates. The estimated cost of technical
assistance also provides for the cost of local transport, office equipment
and other minor items and, for foreign specialists, international travel and
per diem.
4.21      The foreign exchange cost component of civil works has been
estimated at 45%, based on the analysis of construction cost components
(material, equipment, labor, overheads, profit and tax). Brazil is a net
importer of steel, asphalt and crude oil, but cement is produced, and fuel
refined, locally. Most construction equipment is manufactured or assembled
in the country, although there is a significant indirect foreign exchange
component in locally produced goods. Civil works are equipment-intensive and
require substantial quantities of fuel and asphalt. The estimated foreign
exchange cost component of local consulting services is 25%, which has been
adjusted appropriately when foreign experts were expected to be part of the
team, while that of vehicles and equipment for highway safety and training is
45%. Some equipment for research is expected to be imported.
E. Project Execution, Monitoring and Procurement
4.22      The execution of the project would be the responsibility of DNER
through its various directorates as follows:
(a) Highway Rehabilitation Program - Planning Directorate, assisted
by IPR for detailed engineering and Maintenance Directorates
for implementation;
(b) Highway Safety Program - Transit Directorate;
Cc) Road Highway Maintenance Training Program - primarily IPR and
selected DRFs; state secretariats of transport and DER would be
responsible for their training programs through Supplemental
Agreement with DNER;
(d) Highway Research - IPR, supported by other directorates;
(e) Pavement Management System - primarily the General Directorate
with active participation of all other relevant directorates;
and
(f) Equipment Management System - Maintenance Directorate and DRFs.
The implementation of the various elements of the project would be monitored
through quarterly progress reports, which would be prepared by the DNER
Directorate responsible for execution, and through regular consultations with
DNER in the course of project supervision by Bank staff.
4.23      Highway rehabilitation works for about 480 km of the Group I roads
are being procured on the basis of LCB procedures under advance contracting
at an estimated total contract amount of US$28.4 million, including price
contingencies. Contracts were awarded in May 1984. These works, not
exceeding US$3.0 million per contract, consist of pavement overlay and
strengthening on short sections, spread over the entire country, which did
not lend themselves to being combined into larger packages. Bank Guidelines



- 26 -
for Procurement (March 1977) have been followed, and LCB procedures have been
reviewed and found acceptable. The Bank also agreed to advance procurement
for rehabilitation works for the remaining 1,090 km of Group I roads under
ICB. Contracts, however, would not be awarded for these road sections before
the approval of the proposed loan. Rehabilitation works for Group II and
Group III roads would also be procured under ICB. Sections of roads located
within a reasonably confined area would be packaged for total contract values
between US$10.0 million and US$20 million, aggregating to about US$323.4
million, including price contingencies.   Civil works for the highway safety
and maintenance training programs would be procured on the basis of LCB
procedures, acceptable to the Bank, at a total cost of US$38.0 million,
including contingencies, with individual contract values not exceeding US$2.0
million.
4.24      Vehicles and equipment for the Highway Safety Program, estimated at
US$9.0 million including price contingencies, would be procured under ICB,
but, for the Maintenance Training, contracts for less than US$500,000, which
would be too small to attract foreign firms not already represented in
Brazil, would be awarded following LCB procedures, acceptable to the Bank.
Purchases contracted under these procedures would not aggregate to more than
US$4.5 million, including price contingencies. Contracts for research
equipment and microcomputers, at an aggregate value not to exceed the
equivalent of US$350,000, would be procured on the basis of local procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. All contracts for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$300,000 or more and all contracts for works
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5.0 million or more would be subject
to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation in a coverage of
about 50% of the total estimated value of both goods and works contracts. In
light of DNER's experience in procurement procedures, the above threshold
selected for prior review is considered appropriate. The balance of
contracts would be subject to random post review by the Bank after contract
award.
4.25      Consultants for supervision of civil works, detailed engineering
design, highway maintenance training program, highway research, PMS and EMS
would be selected and engaged following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). The local consulting industry is well experienced
and competent to carry out most of the tasks involved. Foreign experts,
however, would be contracted by the local consultants for the training
program and for PMS and EMS. Timetables and draft terms of reference for the
consultant services have been agreed with DNER.
F. Financing and Disbursement
4.26      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) highway rehabilitation and highway safety programs other than
imported equipment - 45% of total expenditures;
(b) maintenance training program, except for operating costs of
training in DRFs - 100% of total expenditures, excluding local
taxes and duties;
(c) consultant/specialist services for training and highway
research programs, training abroad, PMS and EMS - 80 of local
and 100% of foreign expenditures;



- 27 -
(d) fully imported equipment for Highway Safety Program and Highway
Research Program - 100% of foreign expenditures;
(e) 100% of the front-end fee; and
(f) 100% of the initial special account deposit.
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation for goods and
services exceeding US$20,000. For works undertaken by the RTPUs and MTPUs,
and for goods and services costing less than US$20,000, disbursement would be
made against statements of expenditure.
4.27      The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 4.4.  The
disbursement profile for the highway subsector in Brazil indicates that, in
the past, eight years were required to obtain full disbursement. However,
since this project would primarily finance a time-slice of DNER's investment
program, it is reasonable to expect a faster disbursement rate, although the
risk of slowing down of implementation because of budget constraints cannot
be ignored. A disbursement period of five years has been considered a
reasonable assumption; thus, full disbursement is expected by June 30, 1989.
4.28      Retroactive financing is recommended for expenditures up to a total
of US$8.0 million equivalent for highway rehabilitation and associated
supervision works, carried out after April 1, 1984.
G. Special Account, Revolving Fund and Auditing
4.29      To facilitate payments to suppliers and reimbursements to
Borrowers, Special Account procedures are in operation for a number of Bank
projects in Brazil. Similarly, to reduce the interval during which DNER
would finance the Bank's share of project costs with its own resources, the
Government may request the Bank to make advance payments from the loan
account into a Special Account, to be opened in US dollars in the Central
Bank, which would be available for financing only the Bank's share of the
project's cost. The amount deposited in the Special Account could be
increased or decreased by the Bank as required for project execution, but
would not exceed US$15.0 million. Withdrawals would be on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures listing the payments made by DNER. Supporting
documentation would be retained by DNER, would be available for inspection
during project supervision missions, and would be subject to auditing by
DNER's external auditors. The Bank would replenish the Special Account upon
request of the Central Bank on the basis of withdrawals made. The Special
Account would be subject to auditing by the Central Bank's Internal Audit
Unit, and, since it forms part of the Central Bank's annual financial
statements, it would also be subject to external audit.
4.30      As under past highway projects, DNER would establish a Project
Revolving Account for the specific purpose of carrying out its obligations
related to the project. The Account would be replenished with the Federal
Government's contribution (through budget allocations to DNER) and with
withdrawals from the Special Account to reimburse project expenditures
eligible for Bank financing. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that: (a) as a condition for loan effectiveness, DNER would maintain a



- 28 -
Project Revolving Account account in a suitable Brazilian Bank and deposit
US$6.0 million equivalent; and (b) DNER would make regular monthly deposits
to the Account to ensure the availability of sufficient funds for project
costs during the forthcoming month according to work and procurement
schedules. The Project Revolving Account would be audited by DNER's external
auditors.
4.31      Regarding the Bank's requirements on auditing, it was agreed during
negotiations that: (a) DNER's accounts (including the project accounts) and
financial statements for each financial year would be audited, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied; and (b) not later than four months after the
end of DNER's financial year, the audited financial statements, together with
the audit reports and certificates, would be furnished to the Bank.
H. Economic Justification
4.32      The proposed project would assist in filling the financing gap in
DNER's 1984-1987 investment plan by providing funds for selected components.
Bank financing would be targeted at ensuring a more adequate balance between
different categories of expenditures since foreseeable budget resources
allocated to investment are mostly tied to the completion of projects of
utmost economic priority. This situation is basically the outcome of the
current severe scarcity of public funds and of DNER's past emphasis on new
construction in a period of sustained economic growth.
4.33      DNER is, therefore, faced with the necessity of cutting back the
overall level of expenditure, while having to satisfy increasing investment
requirements in periodic maintenance and road safety, given the cumulative
effects, upon the network, of age, rapid expansion and greater-than-expected
traffic growth. Simultaneously, the necessity of optimizing the investment
strategy and increasing the efficiency of maintenance operations demands more
skillful and comprehensive highway management, in an environment of frozen
recruitment and non-competitive salary scales.
4.34      The loss for the economy, in the absence of the proposed project,
would be considerable. Proposed road rehabilitation and strengthening
investments would be deferred and downgraded in standard, at the cost of
increasing vehicle wear and tear and premature pavement deterioration. Road
safety conditions would stabilize, or even worsen, at a considerable cost in
human and material losses. Gains in productivity in road maintenance
operations would be difficult to envisage because of the lack of qualified
trainers for the existing labor force. Overall, given foreseeable budget
constraints and in the absence of a comprehensive subsector management
framework, allocation of resources would emphasize expenditures targeted at
maximizing short-term road user benefits, spreading them out on a basis of
spatial equity, rather than reflecting economic efficiency criteria. As a
result, more intensive forms of routine maintenance would replace urgently
required investments which would increase the useful life of the existing
road network. Such strategy, although capable of ytelding short-term vehicle
operating costs savings, would have a marginal contribution in minimizing
longer-term, combined vehicle operating and infrastructure costs.



- 29 -
4.35      Economic analysis of DNER's maintenance program, including an
evaluation of components corresponding to 85% of total project base cost,
yields an estimated ERR above 40%. The high return estimated indicates the
economic priority of the proposed investments and the balance between project
components, which emphasizes periodic and preventive maintenance elements.
This balance reflects desirable priorities in DNER's 1984-1987 investment
plan. The economic assessment of the project has basically been developed by
DNER, in the context of the preparation of the four-year plan. DNER is
adequately staffed to carry out economic analysis, and its methodology, based
on the Bank-developed HDM model, is acceptable to the Bank.
4.36      The economics of rehabilitation and strengthening programs and
projects would be analyzed by DNER's Planning Directorate, through its HDM
Unit. This Unit maintains liaison with the Maintenance Directorate, which is
in charge of the design of alternative investment/policy packages. The road
safety programs would be analyzed by the Traffic Directorate, according to a
methodology which has been agreed with the Bank. The training and research
components of the project have been satisfactorily designed on a cost-
effectiveness basis by IPR, which also developed a detailed monitoring frae-
work to ensure their implementation according to planned targets.
4.37      Most of the quantifiable project benefits would be directly
realized by truck owners since almost 50% of the traffic on the Federal
Highway Network is accounted for by trucks, and benefits in truck operation
would, generally, be higher than benefits associated with other types of
vehicles. These benefits, in the form of vehicle operating costs savings
resulting from improved pavement and safety conditions, would most likely be
passed over to the directly productive sectors of the economy, in view of the
fact that the trucking industry is competitive and road transport accounts
for about 60% of total freight traffic in Brazil. The spatial impact of
project benefits would predominantly affect export flows since most of the
proposed investment would take place in sections of the network located in
the export corridors or serving regional centers of key productive
importance.
4.38      Important returns would also result, from project implementation,
through road safety improvements and maintenance training. In addition,
considerable benefits are expected through energy conservation. Although
potential motor fuel savings proved difficult to estimate, it is likely that
the traffic safety component would have a positive short-term impact in terms
of more efficient fuel use, as a result of better speed limit enforcement and
of the proposed media campaign, targeted at fostering better driving
behavior. In the longer term, the element of the researcn component
addressing the aerodynamic performance of vehicles may also yield
considerable returns, in terms of fuel conservation, through the introduction
of retrofitting devices, capable of improving existing vehicle fuel
efficiency by up to 8%.
4.39      The methodology used in the analysis of the economic feasibility of
the Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening Component and of the first group of
highway rehabilitation and overlaying subprojects is presented in Annex 5.
The methodology is further detailed in the Aide-Nemoire dated October 21,
1983, which is available in the Project File. Results of the economic
analysis for the first group of subprojects are presented in Table 4.5.
During negotiations, the Government agreed that DNER would follow economic



- 30 -
criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, to periodically review the rolling
multi-year highway rehabilitation and strengthening program.
I. Project Risk
4.40      The composition and timing of DNER's program have been carefully
reviewed and are reasonable, considering foreseeable budget availability and
the absorptive capacity of DNER and of the construction industry. The ERR,
based on quantifiable benefits corresponding to 85% of total project base
costs, is attractive; even under the extreme assumption of no growth in
benefits during project life, the estimated ERR is still above 20%. However,
one risk to the Sector Project is that continuing economic difficulties could
lead to further restrictions in the highway investment budget, delaying
disbursements and the completion of the overall investment program. Such
risk would be minimized by ensuring, during project execution, an adequate
monitoring of the implementation of the investment plan, and that required
budget allocations would be forecast in a timely manner and included in the
three-year rolling budget program for the public sector.
4.41      The Sector Project is designed to maintain a comprehensive Bank
involvement and to ensure policy and institution-building continuity.
Periodic consultation with the Government over the implementation period
would contribute toward ensuring that the project would have the expected
impact upon subsector policy and management. The Bank's strategy has been to
help develop, through the financing of DNER, an improved subsector management
framework, capable of undertaking program preparation and evaluation, in a
manner consistent with the public sector budget programing process. A first
step in that direction has largely been achieved during preparation of the
proposed project, and present institutional gains would constitute an
important asset under the new Administration.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) a plan of action for the revision of the road user charges
system to be furnished to the Bank, for its comments, not later
than January 31, 1985, and the road user charges system.to be
revised in accordance with such plan of action, taking into
consideration the Bank's comments (para 2.15);
(b) D1ER to: (i) fully adopt unit-price contracting for routine
maintenance after mid-1985; (ii) introduce SAC to at least six
DRF districts for force account operations by July 1, 1985; and
(iii) revise maintenance standards and related cost estimates
and establish a computerized system for their two-yearly update
by August 31, 1984 (para 2.27);
(c) DNER to periodically review its highway program and present it
to the Bank, not later than July 1 of each year, in accordance
with policies and economic criteria satisfactory to the Bank,



- 31 -
and to regularly provide for funding through the rolling
three-year budget programing process (para 3.07);
(d) a comprehensive strategy to promote conservation of diesel-oil,
through a study of the major factors affecting consumption of
that fuel, to be conducted according to terms of reference to
be furnished to the Bank by September 30, 1984; the recommen-
dations of such study, to be completed not later than June 30,
1985, and to be put into effect thereafter, to take into
account the relevant conclusions from the review of the road
user charges system; (para 4.01);
(e) DNER to follow procedures acceptable to the Bank for subproject
identification and evaluation (para 4.09);
(f) DNER to carry out selection, evaluation and "after" studies of
"black spot" improvements following methodologies acceptable to
the Bank (para 4.10);
(g) DNER to: (i) appoint consultants, by August 1, 1984, to assist
IPR in the planning and implementation of the training program
(para 4.15);
(h) DNER to present the Bank with detailed terms of reference for
each research study prior to its start, and to keep the Bank
informed on progress and submit draft final reports for
comments (para 4.17);
{i) DNER to implement a work program (1984-1986), satisfac:ory to
the Bank, for the expanded operation of PNS, in accordance with
policy guidelines contained in Service Instruction No. 03/84
(para 4.18);
(j) DNER to engage consultants, by not later than October 1, 1984,
to carry out an EMS study in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.19);
(k) DNER to make regular monthly deposits to the Project Revolving
Account to ensure the availability of sufficient funds for
project costs during the forthcoming month, according to work
and procurement schedules (para 4.30);
(1) (i) DNER's accounts (including the project account.) and
financial statements to be audited, satisfactory to the Bank;
and (ii) each year, the audited financial statements, together
with audit reports and certificates, to be furnished to the
Bank (para 4.31); and
(m) DNER to follow economic criteria, satisfactory to the Bank, to
periodically review the rolling multi-year highway
rehabilitation and strengthening program (para 4.39).



- 32 -
5.02      Maintaining a Project Revolving Account by DNER and depositing
US$6.0 million equivalent would be a condition for effectiveness of the
project loan (para 4.30).
5.03      It would be a condition for disbursement of the training component
that DNER sign a Subsidiary Agreement with each of the participating DERs
regarding administrative, financial and operational arrangements for
implementing the program (para 4.15).
5.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank Loan of US$210 million. The terms would be 15 years with a four-year
grace period.
May 23, 1984



- 33 -
TAb1a 1.1
PLMHIK  SUCU PWE
Modal Traffic Shaves (1977-1982)
1977      1978        1979     1960      1981      1982
FgsyEr$e                   293,747.5  335,488.5  38D,912.6 433,810.9 451,879.1 470,205.2
Hlghuwy                  275,454.2  314,596.2  359,300.3 410,356.8 426,771.1  443,800.0
Rail                      11,699.7   l1,9D7.9   11,403.9  12,376.2  13,135.0  13,264.9
Air                        6,591.0    7,635.0    8,795.0   9,599.0   9,973.0  10,789.0
Undmrpsarod Rail            n.a.      1,331.9    1,379.8   1,518.9   1,785.4   2,083.7
Mr:ine (Costal)                2.6       17.5      33.6      .a.s     214.6 1/  267.6 I/
Pa_wgers (Z)                  - 100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0    100.0 o100.0
Hut*wq                        93.8      93.8       94.3      94.6      94.5      94.3
PiAl                          4.0        3.6        3.0       2.8       2.9       2.8
Alr                            2.2       2.2        2.3       2.2       2.2       2.3
Ubderzgrud Rail               -          0.4        0.4       0.4       0.4       0.6
Marine (Costal)                          -          -         -         -
Fqoelght                   275,261.1  298,790.6  326,240.4 355,451.9 342,518.1 353,165.4
(miuWio ao payiz  tn-km)
H1guiay                  168,200.0  181,500.0  193,JO7O0 208,500.0 204,700.0 212,500.0
Ranl                      60,603.0   63,989.0   73,752.0  86,302.0  79,413.0  78,022.0
Marine (Coatal and Inland) 37,283.0   41,414.4   46,544.0  47,700.9  46,276.5  50,229.0
PEpellne                   8,489.1   11,095.2   11,321.7  11,929.0  11,078.6  11,206.5
Air                          686.0      792.0     922.7   1,020.0   1,050.0   1,205.9
!!!W  (2)                      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0     100.0
Uig4PwY                       61.1      60.7       59.4      58.7      59.8      60.2
Rail                          22.0      21.4       22;6      24.3      23.2      221
Marine (Coastal and Inlad)    13.5       13.9       14.3      13.4     13.5      14.2
Pipeline                      3.1        3.7        3.4       3.3       3.2       3.2
Air                           0.3        0.3        0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3
1/ Inclzzdir inlaid nmI.gr
Source:  Mr, Aiurzo EstatistiF dos Mrsportes, 1962; estimts fr 19M.
N     4 1984



EAZIL
FM   BAS SO aWer
Final Dergy Oicmtion (1982)
Product-Sector VliA
(in thlard tbaeT 
Total      Product Cmuqpidn        PRm&uc Aerap
Cauqtlm         m a Z of Total   kmual G( th Rate. (Z)
hurgy   Ra6hJfidlt1 i     rCajl   Rblic Dgricaultratl  Tnuportatton         LimWtry  Others    (Pcodut)          (xmtia           1976-1980  1980-1982
Saniary Soo                5.615    11,637          5,108     3,621      3,287          25,500        40,211    10,110     105,089               81.9           7.7        (0.7)
ILsl-QU                      3       -              159        101     2,421           11,529        1,185      -         15,398                12.0          7.9         (0.2)
Ful-ml                   1,407       -              183       -           80            1,388        7,307       -        10,365                8.1           3.2        (20.1)
Cosim                     -         -              -         -          -              7,911          -         -         7,911                6.2          (5.5)        (4.6)
LEG                         11     3,065            126       -          -               -             22S       -         3,430                2.7           8.7         6.9
Nlihtha                    -         -              -         -          -               -              58    3,052        3,110                2.4          16.4         26.3
eru                        -         223            107        24          2            1,811          153       -         2,325                 1.8          3.0          4.0
Go                        s158        150            41         4        -               -             586       -           939                0.7           7.7          1.0
PFsoil Coal Cde            -         -              -         -          -               -           2,801       -         2,801                 2.2         14.5         (5.8)
Rlactricity                667     7,862          4,490     3,489        784             298        20,571      -         38,161               29.7          11.9         4.0
Chraol                     -         332              2         3        -               -           3,214         6       3,557                2.8           8.1          0.1
Alcohol                    -         -              -         -                         2,563          -         247       2,810                 2.2         63.4         11.2           w
Otheus                   3,369       -              -         -          -               -           4,108    6,805       14,282                11.1          9.6          1.3
PrSmiry  9xlrs 356    13.063                          133        34      3,383              20         5.744       441      23d74                 18.1          0.2         2.7
Total Cmuti  tion (Sector)  5,971    24,70D         5,241      3,655     6,670           25,52D       45,955    10,551      128,263              100.0          6.2         (0.1)
of dich shum of
pebtwuim ad natazal
me derivativ  2/                                                                                                          48,326               37.7          4.0         (5.5)
Sector OCuption as a
2 of Total Couuqption        4,7       19,3           4.1       2.8        5,2             19.9         35,8      8.2        100.0
Sctor Aiud Akwnri
Rates (2)
1976-1980            12.5       2.2            7.8       9.0        5.9             2.6           8.4      12.1         6.2
1980-1982             6.0       2.7            3.6       6.8        3.1             1.3          (4.7)      2.8        (0.1)
I/ Us-af-oL   u                    df
I bInxh  final azmptim ofuoqtLmd fai olearici  derlietl ft  proo ds ci i  ofr  d-*   aitnd fiu-oU.
Sour:   tlaul  zU  mla , MLlnstrty  f Mlnes and Fmrg , 1983.
tcrdh 1984



EtAzT
thtltnal oaDd tNtwrk (1983)
ederal 11                                State                                  i                               Total
WxerV                                  U-der A/                             Ihler,                               Wder 
axe-                                    Cau-                                 0)M-                                 0Mw-
_     Paved   !)   truction   Ttal   Paved    UVa'ed    trietion   Total   Paved    led  trtl           Total   Paved      lkil  tructim  Ital
Notth         1,744.4  8,362.7   564.2  10,671.3  1,944.4   4,815.6    123.0    6,883.0   302.2   17,474.3 462.8    18,239.3  3,991.0   30,652.6 1,150.0   35,793.6
Northlst    13,091.6  10,696.7    627.1  24,415.4  7,717.9  23,341.7  1,195.33  32,254.9   498.9  277,163.2   -     277,662.1  21,308.4  311,201.6 1,822.4  334,332.4
So.tut    15,838.9  7,005.5   494.9  23,339.3  13,267.6  13,404.7    272.9   26,945.2 2,477.6  372,116.2   -        374,593.8  31,584.1  392,526.4  767.8  424,878.3       L
South        9,820.5  4,664.4   487.0  14,991.9  4,794.5   9,706.6  1,908.1   16,409.2   361.4  331,536.2   -       331,897.6  14,976.6  345,927.2 2,395.1  363,298.7
aztral-wst  4,967.4  10,551.8   518.1  16,037.3  1,427.8  32,738.9  1,113.0   35,279.7    37.4  114,451.5   -       114,488.9  6,432.6  157,742.2 1,631.1  165,805.9
45,462.8 41,301.1 2,691.3  89,455.2 29,152.2  S4,007.5  4,612.3  117,772.0 3,677.5 1,112,741.4 462.8 1,116,881.7  78,292.5 1,238,050.0 7,766.4 1,324,108.9
I/ Sm &deral hIW.ya are uxner state akulnltmtion.
lu        w    wks.
amS: D8 
Mrch 1984_



- 36 -
Table 2.2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Federal Highway Network Average Daily Traffic (1982)
Regions           Paved Network      Unpaved Network        Total Network
North                     1,863               164                    488
Northeast                 1,215                179                   997
Southeast                 3,739               422                  3,453
South                     2,632               659                  2,536
Central-West              1,546               319                  1,056
Source: DNER
March 1984



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Road Transportation Subsector's Fuel Consumption (1972-1982)
(in thousand cubic meters)
G a s o h o l                           Total
Anhydrous              Blend 3/       Gasoline and    Hydrated
Diesel-Oil      Gasoline "B"1/   Gasoline "A"2J  Alcohol   Total              X              Gasohol        Alcohol
1972          5,234             726              11,278          391    11,669          3.4             12,395
1973          6,328             912              13,017           309    13,326         2.3             14,238
1974          6,809             449              13,873           190    14,063         1.4             14,512
1975          7,794              264             14,193           162    14,355         1.1             14,619
1976          9,063              178             14,374           172    14,546         1.2             14,724
1977          9,826              127             13,337           639    13,976         4.6             14,103             -
1978         10,603              146             13,596        1,504    15,100         10.0             15,246             2
1979         11,300              109             13,317        2,219    15,536         14.3             15,645            16
1980         12,187                7             11,431        2,253    13,684         16.5             13,691           429
1981         11,958                -             10,943        1,146    12,089          9.5             12,089         1,392
1982         12,417                              10,454        2,021    12,475         16.2             12,475         1,674
l/ 96 RON
/ 73 RON
3/ Average annual content of anhydrous alcohol, on a volumetric basis.
Source: Ministry of Transport
March 1984



EMAZIL
FEERAL HIQIAS SECIC)R PRIlJECr
Road Vehicle Fleet (1982) 1/
(tmiber in thkusard veicles)
Goaobl-1red           DLesel-Oti-bered       Hydrated Alcohol-Fbred         T o t a 1
Vehicle F'el           Vehicle Fuel              Vehicle Fuxl             Vehicle Rel
Fleet     Wpe   De    Eleet   wpe    *pe          Fleet       pe  TXpe   Fleet       Tpe   wpe
Private anaport           8,860       90     95      _       _      _          453     81      5    9,313        81   100
Passerger Cars          8,260       84      95      -       -      -         451     80      5    8,711        76   100
Otbers                    600        6     100      -       -      -          2       1      -       602       5    100
Public Transport              80        1     28    131       13      45        79      14    27        290       3    100
Taxds                      78        1     50       -       -      -         79      14    50        157        2    100
Microbuses                 -         -       -      4       -     100          -      -      3         4       -     100
Urban Ises                  2        -      4      50       5      96         -       -               52      -     100
OtherBuses                 -         -      -      77       8     100         -       -      -        77        1   100
Cargo Transport              937        9     50    894       87      48        29       5      2     1,860       16   100
Llght ComDrcdals          743        8      86     92       9      11         27      5      3       862        8    100
Light Trucks               56        -     31    122       12      69         -       -      -       178       2    100
Madium Trucks             135        1      24    437      43      76          2      -      -       574        5    100
Medium Iavy Trucks          3        -       2    150      15      98         -       -      -       153        1   100
Hbavy Tucks                -         -       -     86       8     100          -      -      -        86       -    100
Ektra-Hbay Trucks          -         -      -       7       -     100         -       -      -         7      -      100
Total                      9,877      100     88   1,025    100        8       561    100       3    11,463     100   100
1/ Eatimted middle-year values
Sre:  Lnistry of Tramport
March 1984



- 39 -
Table 2.5
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Diesel-Oil Final Consumption in the Road Transportation Subsector (1982) 1/
Quantity                       Z
(in thousand cubic meters)   (of total consumption)
Public Transport                        3,043                        16.7
Microbuses                               33                         0.2
Urban Buses                           1,782                        9.8
Other Buses                           1,228                        6.7
Cargo Transport                         9,374                       51.3
Light Commercials                       277                         1.5
Light Trucks                            755                        4.1
Medium Trucks                         4,177                       22.9
Medium Heavy Trucks                   2,098                        11.5
Heavy Trucks                          1,859                        10.2
Extra-heavy Trucks                      208                         1.1
Road Transportation Subsector          12,417                        68.0
Transportation Sector Consumption      13,676                        74.9
Total Consumption                      18,266                       100.0
1/ Preliminary estimate.
Source: Ministry of Transport
March 1984



- 40 -
Table 2.6
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Price Structure of Petroleum Automotive Fuels, December 1983 1/
(in US$ per gallon 41)
Gasoline "A" 3/   Diesel-Oil
Ex-Refinery Price                                   1.48              0.98
(realization)
Distribution Charges                                0.15              0.13
and Retailer's Margins
Taxes                                               0.15              0.09
Retail Price                                        1.78              1.20
Retail Price
(Net of Distribution Charges and
Retailer's Margins)                             1.63              1.07
International Price 4/ (c.i.f. Santos)              0.87 5/           0.86
1/ Prices for the period November 10, 1983 to January 25, 1984.
2/ Weighted average exchange rate for the period: US$1-Cr 945.
3/ 73 RON gasoline, retailed in a blend of up to 20% of anydrous biomass
alcohol (RON-Research Octane Number).
4/ As of the Fourth Quarter of 1983.
5/ 95 RON gasoline.
Source: Ministry of Transport and mission estimates.
March 1984



- 41 -
Table 2.7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Road User Charges and Highway Expenditures, 1978-1983
(in billion Cruzeiros at March 1984 prices)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Reveuues I/
Fuel Tax (IUCLG)              464     439      184     112     104      71
Motor Vehicle
Registration Tax (TRU)      346     332     441      325     304     250
Road Transport Tax (ISTR)    120      120      133     124     126      98
Tools                          76      72      40       27      22      17
Other Fuel Taxes              461     677     868      632     632     632
Total Revenues          1,467   1,640   1,666   1,220   1,188   1,068
DNER Expenditures
Operating  2/               1,018   1,000     865      415     331     398
Others 31                   1,161     919     937      731     710     554
Debt-Service                  753     565     547      352     321     394
Total Expenditures 4/  2,932   2,484   2,349   1,498   1,362   1,346
1/ From taxes levied on Federal highway users (estimate).
2/ Including rehabilitation, maintenance, safety and an estimated related
proportion of studies, research and current expenditures.
31 Including construction, paving, bypass and -urban expressways, and an
estimated related proportion of studies, research and current expenditures.
4/ Net of transfers to States and Municipalities.
Source: Ministry of Transport
March 1984



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Pavement Condition, Federal Highway Network
(Length in km)
Pavement Condition
Good         Regular           Fair        Bad       Very Bad
Traffic           Section          Section        Section      Section     Section      Total
Link      Level           a       b       a        b      a      b     a      b     a     b
BR-1        -   500      811   1,216   1,034   1,552   336   503   364   545   252   377           6,990
BR-2     500- 1,000   1,042   1,563   1,330   1,994   431   646   467   701   324   485            8,983
BR-3   1,000- 1,500      908   1,362   1,159   1,738   376   564   407   611   282   423           7,830
BR-4   1,500- 2,000      614      921     784   1,175   254   381   275   413   191   286          5,294
BR-5   2,000- 3,000      674   1,011      860   1,291   279   419   302   454   209   314          5,813
BR-6   3,000- 4,000      366      548     467      700   152   227   164   246   114   170         3,154
BR-7   4,000- 5,000      251      377     320      481   104   156   113   169    78   117         2,166
BR-8   5,000-10,000      194      292     248      373    80   121    37   131    60    91         1,677
BR-9  10,000-60,000       71      107      90      136    29    44    32    47    22    33           611
Total            4,931   7,397   6,292   9,440 2,041 3,061 2,211 3,317 1,532 2,296          45,518
(a) Asphaltic Concrete Surface
(b) Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
00
Source: DNER
March 1984



- 43 -
&p 3.1
amy  f        b~Iim   mi hm6   (1978-1987) 1,
(-7e :. aLum., at Phr 1984 -1 I
978          1979        1960         1981        1982         1983        1984         1985         1966       1967
CqdtLI                  1,302,806.2   1,101,863.7  1,105,566.4    6069927.8    734,451.7    726,445.0    455,658.s    430,537.0    459,5sc.0   s56,5o0.0
<           _tzu~dnn/Nv1zw  509,666.9    376,254.4   413,132.6    388,113.5   403,192.7    327,612.0    236,508.3    234,000.0    232,00D.0    180u000.0
mmeatku                 22M,S34.3    247,963.6    289,045.2    169,086.3    133,032.2    179,979.2    75,700.0    18U900.0    45,600.0    216,600.0
amaw                   119,041.7    104,572.3    110,368.5    92,009.1    90,232.5    77,046.2     64,100.0    66,00o.0      66,00.0    70.000.0
Ihljtaiut               306X,061.8    250,285.1    155,091.0    86,053.3    79,034.7    96,024.9    49,100.3    85,000.0      85,OOD.0    85,00.0
Sdety                   23,205.0      29,145.6    40D,4        18,892.1    17,263.4    13,548.1     23,600.0    18137.0      Z0,4L00     20,40=0
SDWdIa mad _mrch        39,216.5      30,653.1    25,420.2    12,163.9      4,622.1     3,122.7      1,949.9     3,500.0       3,50.0      3,5W0.0
(ezm                    82.780.0      62,959.6    72,355.5    40,609.6      7,054.1    29,111.9      4,700.0     5,000.0       5,000.0     5o0.0.0
ox t                      SW66,934.4    816,00D.9    695,274.4    338,952.3    305,654.1   225,389.1    146,414.8   141,458.3   141,458.3    143,562.6
88t Suiv                  752,530.4    565,328.8    547,016.6    351.661.3    321,104.6    394,30D.3    295,787.9    341,523.7    328,754.0    328,754.0
Odrax                       8,199.1        678.4       727.7        191.3       269.2        200.9         -            -            -
Obt MM    wbz         2,932.470.1   2,483,871.8  2,348,605.1  1,497,732.7  1,361,559.6  1,346,335.3    897,861.2    913,519.0    929,712.3  1,Cs2,836.6
Mmwfam     st   atid   1,06,349.8    8e0,849.8    706,534.1    45,742.7    114,166.8    15,223.7       14,154.9    12,462.2      10,609.3    10,609.3
ThCal EbqndLbazrp,    4.018.819.9   3.364,721.6  3,055,139.2  1.543,475.4  1,475,726.4  1.361,559.0    912,016.1    925,981.2    940,321.6  1.063.445.9
7-                               -  -                     -          -            -          _- 
S-nw
1 Dfex                   87,563.4    257,446.0    362.377.4   390,045.0  1.092.796.4   940,753.3    540,136.0   716,494.1    732,414.5   853,530.8
PNFl2 M  pCai                  -             -       42,659.8    27,333.7     79.22l.1    36,549.6    109,140.0    109,140.0    109,140.0    109,140.0
MM   lig                  119,041.7    104,572.3    110,368.5    92,009.1     90,232.5    77,046.2     64,100.0    66,000.0     66,000.0    70,030.0
x11                            -             -           -            -       20,527.7        -        40,717.0        -             -           -
pftmb of Enn             1,488,059.3   1.067,069.9    785,693.1    79,298.8       -           -            -           -             -           -
ftkm.  of Db              600,019.4    494,138.2    533,649.0    60,990.7         -           -            -           -             -           -
ftam.o of 1SIR            193,375.0    168,843.4    150,564.0    104,743.3        -           -            -           -             -           -
12                        418,850.3    602,062.3    280,711.5    362,085.9        -           -            -           -             -           -
0n  .ad 0mr 11ria.
IbFu                    671,777.0    421,575.7    377,885.5    63,905.4    91,803.0    59,730.9     31,663.2    30,912.1      30,767.1    30,767.1
Iocoug  (1mt1c mad
)xeip), at o ddh       440,113.8    2A9,013.8   411,210.4   353,073.5    101,136.7    247,479.0    126,259.9      3,435.0         -            -
M DV (lam 1075-        31,906.9      20,226.0     6,489.3      7,695.5     5,794.4      1,006.4     1,150.0         -            -            -
MUD VI (1n 157-             -         1,869.3    14,692.5    11,713.1     10,710.8    37,845.1    48,155.0      3,435.0          -            -
Maumitr (low I12-n          -            -            -           -       26,210.7    135,096.4    75,800.0         -            -            -
P aomp dS D   r  1         -            -            -           -            -                       -                   -           -
Total ucpts           4,018,819.9   3,364,722.6  3,055,139.2  1,543,475.4  1,475,726.4  1,361.559.0    912,016.1    925,981.2    940,321.6  1.063,445.9
~~~~~- - - - 
I, 1978-191g, amals; 1964 -16, fotumt In the b      of tie Wqned Project.
So: ER
Mih 198



- 44. -
Table 3.2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Summary of DNER Programed Expenditures and Receipts (1984-1987) I/
(in Cr. million, at March 1984 prices)
1984           1985          1986           1987
Expenditures
Requirements
Capital                         511,498.5       644,900.0    647,900.0      620,300.0
Construction/Paving          236,508.3        234,00.0    232,000.0      180,000.0
Rehabilitation               127,900.0       213,400.0    216,400.0      238,800.0
Bypasses/Urban Expressways   64,100.0         66,000.0      68,000.0      70,000.0
Maintenance                   49,100.3        85,000.0      85,000.0      85,000.0
Safety                        27,240.0        38,000.0      38,000.0      38,000.0
Studies and Research           1,949.9         3,500.0       3,500.0       3,500.0
Others                         4,700.0         5,000.0       5,000.0       5,000.0
Current                         147,654.0       147,654.0    147,654.0      147,654.0
Debt Service                    295,787.9       341,523.7    328,754.0      328,754.0
Others                             s _ __               __
Net DNER Expenditures        954,940.4    1,134,077.7  1,124,308.0   1,096,708.0
Transfers to States and                                                -
Municipalities                14,154.9        i2,462.2      10,609.3       10,609.3
Total Expenditure           969,095.3    1,146,539.9  1,134,917.3   1,107,317.3
Receipts
Sources
Federal Government-lreasury
Transfers                     571,127.3       807,303.7    837,431.1      876,346.3
PIN/PROTERRA Program            109,140.0       109,140.0    109,140.0      109,140.0
PROGRES Program                  64,100.0        66,000.0     68,000.0       70,000.0
EGU                              40,717.0          -             -             -
Own and Other. Various
Receipts                       31,663.2        30,912.1      30,767.1      30,767.1
Borrowings (Domestic and
Foreign), of which            152,347.8       133,184.1      89,579.1      21,063.9
IBRD V (Loan 1075-BR)         1,150.0          -            -              _
IBRD VI (Loan 1557-BR)       48,155.0         3,435.0       -
Polonoreste (Loan 2062-BR)  75,800.0           -            -              -
Proposed IBED Sector Loan   26,087.9        101,264.1     89,579.1       21,063.9
Total Receipts               969,095.3    1,146,539.9  1,134,917.3   1,107,317.3
I/ Including the proposed project.
Source: DNER
March 1984



*        D~~BAZIL
FEDERAL HIaK4YS m        PRO=
Hi4ty Rehailitation Prora 1984-1987              Nrch 1984 Prie
1984               1985              1986               1987            Ibtal     Federl  tgMys
Imi-  ($xl01       Ikm   Cr$xl-O9            Cr$xO09   km  Cr$xlO9      km    Cr$x109   Sector Project
A - Detail ad ezerIg .
1. SIxth ligiw   Project   2,544.5    3.8           -     -           -       -       -      -     2,544.5     3.8
2. Fed. Hwy. Sector Project            _        1,715.0   3.0     1,715.0    3.0   570.0   1.0    4,000.0 1I  7.0          7.0
Subtotal            2,544.5    3.8      1,715.0   3.0      1,715.0    IT     7.0   1.0    6,544.5    10.8           7.0
B - Civil lrks
1. SLxth HighW  Project
(Isn 1557-)              990.0   50.4          17.5   1.9         -      -       -      -       1,007.5    52.3        -
2. Fed. Hwy. Sector Project
(a) Grou I                380.0   43.8         940.0 108.5       249.6   28.9     -      -       1,569.6   181.2       181.2
(b) Groip U                50.0    5.0         600.0  59.6       490.0   48.6      -     -       1,140.0   113.2       113.2
(c) Group III               -      -           125.0  10.9       912.0   79.3   229.0  19.8    1,266.0   110.0         110.0     .
3. pfl 2/                    400.0   21.5        400.0  17.0        400.0   17.0   400.0  17.0    1,600.0    72.5          -
4. Gmo  IV, V, VIt ds. 3/      -      -            -      -         335.0   26.8 2,333.0  186.6    2,668.0   213.4
Subtotal             1,820.0  13J.7      2,082.5  i97.      2,386.6  200.6 2,980.0 223.4    9,269.1   742.6        404.4
C - Ozutrixtiox Suervision
1. Fed Hwy. Sector Project    430.0    3.4      1,665.0  12.5     1,651.6   11.0   229.0   1.4    3,975.6    28.3          28.3
2. Gram  IV V, V,VI Pd. 3/    -      -            -      -         335.0    1.8 2,333.0  13.0    2,668.0    14.8          -
Subtotal              I 430.0    3.4     1,665.0  12.5      1,986.6   12.8 2,562 0  14.4    6,643.3    43.1         28.3
Total                         127.9               213.4             -16.4           W.                 796.5       439.7
US$ 96 m          U:$ 160 m          US$ 162 m      US$ 179 m           US$ 596 m    $ 329 m
1/ ckup IV, V and -VI Dads
/ Prcapm  de iegracao Ndcinal 
3/ lMR  am finsicing
Source: 19
lirch l9B4



- 46 -
Table 4.2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Rehabilitation Program
(CR$ million)
Group I Roads                   March 1984 Prices
Road              Section                 Sub-section   Length   Cost/km        Total
km
101/BA   Entr.BR-324-Rio Sururu(Lote 1.1) 169,0/220.0        51.0)
101/BA   Entr.BR-324-Rio Sururu(Lote 1.2) 220.0/260.6        40.6)    167.2    15,316.8
101/BA   Rio Sururu-Rio Preto(Lote 2.1)   260.0/304.5        44.5)
101/BA   Eio Sururu-Rio Preto(Lote 2.2)   304.5/350.0        45.5)    169.2    15,234.4
407/BA   Entr.BR-324(Capim Grosso)-P.Novo 220.0/278.9        58.9       44.2     2,602.6
040/MG   Divisa GO/MG-Pte.s/Rio Taquara         0/176.0      52.6      146.8     7,725.1
262/MG   Betim-Entroncamento BR-354         449.0/511.9      62.9      117.6     7,395.6
365/MG   Pte.s/Rib.Monte Alegre-Ituitaba        0/ 44.0      44.0       82.3     3,622.4
163/MS   Campo Grande-Dourados (Lote 4)   193.0/245.0        52.0       34.6     1,799.3
163/MS   Campo Grande-Dourados (Lote 3)   245.0/291.0        46.0       36.2     1,666.5
163/MS   Campo Grande-Divisa MS/MT          613.0/686.0      73.0      88.9      6,489.3
070/MT   Cuiba-Rondonopolis                 342.9/408.6      65.7       69.2     4,552.0
101/RJ   Divisa ES/RJ-Campos                    0/ 63.0      63.0       96.2     6,065.4
393/RJ   Volta Redonda-Tres Rios            282.7/232.7      50.0      157.6     7,852.7
116/RS   Porto Alegre-Sao Leopoldo          245.8/258.6      12.8      367.8     4,708.5
153/RS   Jeriba-Bage(Lote 43.1)                 0/ 33.3      33.3       93.2     3,103.0
153/RS   Jeriba-Bage(Lote 43.2)              33.3/ 68.6      35.3      111.7     3,944.0
153/RS   Jeriba-Bage(Lote 44.1)              69.0/104.0      35.0      110.1     3,855.0
153/RS   Jeriba-Bage(Lote 44.2)             104.0/138.6      34.6      111.6     3,861.0
290/RS   Pantano Grande-Sao Gabriel         138.0/175.0      37.0       83.2     3,081.7
290/RS   Pantano Grande-Sao Gabriel         263.0/321.0      33.0       68.4     2,257.8
386/RS   Entronc.BR-158-Entronc.BR-116    178.0/213.3        34.8      138.7     4,829.7
471/RS   Pantano Grande-Santa Cruz                           26.6)
471/RS   Pantano Grande-Santa Cruz                           32.4)    108.4      6,396.4
472/RS   Pte.s/Rio Ibicui-Uruguaiana        113.0/174.0      35.0      109.3     3,826.9
101/PE   Prazeres-Charneca (Cabo)            85.0/104.5      19.5      119.8     2,337.1
232/PE   Sao Caetano-Pesqueira              151.7/213.7      62.0       87.9     5,449.7
277/PR   Cascavel-Foz do Iguacu                 0/ 49.6      49.6      105.5     5,233.8
277/PR   Cascavel-Foz do Iguacu              49.6/ 90.0      40.4      130.1     5,255.3
376/PR   Curitiba-Garuva                     40.0/ 83.0      43.0      156.9     6,748.0
476/PR   Lapa-Sao Mateus(Lote 1)             61.5/110.0      48.5)
476/PR   Lapa-Sao Mateus(Lote 2)            110.0/140.5      30.5)    123.9      9,792.4
101/SC   Entroncamento BR-232-Tubarao       265.3/315.5      50.2      173.1     8,689.6
470/SC   Blumenau-Ibirama                    54.0/ 90.0      36.0       87.9     3,165.5
470/SC   Blumenau-Ibirama                    90.0/125.0      35.0      120.6     4,219.9
280/SC   S.Benito do Sul-Mafra (Lote 2)   112.4/145.7        33.3      180.4     6,007.0
280/SC   S.Benito do Sul-Mafra (Lote 1)   145.7/167.8        22.1      182.7     4,038.2
Total                             1,569.6      115.4   181,121.7
Source: DNER
March 1984



- 47 -
Table 4.3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
List of Equipment for Highway Safety Program
(US$)
March 1984 Prices
Number of         Unit Cost
Equipment               Units                                Total Cost
Patrol/Ambulance Vehicle 450                 9,975            4,488,750
Motorcycle                140                8,680            1,215,200
VHF radio                 590                2,200            1,298,000
Radar                     103                4,570              470,710
Line Marking Machine       12               18,715              224,580
Total                                                      7,697,240
Source: DNER
March 1984



- 48 -
Table 4.4
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
(US$ Million)
Semester      Cumulative            Cumulative as
IBRD Fiscal Year        Disbursement      Amount                Z of Total
1985
December 31, 1984           24.6 1/          24.6                    12
June 30, 1985               25.0             49.6                    24
1986
December 31, 1985           27.6             77.2                    37
June 30, 1986               29.2            106.4                    51
1987
December 31, 1986           29.8            136.2                    65
June 30, 1987               24.8            161.0                    77
1988
December 31, 1987           23.6            184.6                    88
June 30, 1988               13.0            197.6                    94
1989
December 31, 1988            7.0            204.6                    97
June 30, 1989                5.4            210.0                   100
Assumptions:
Highway Rehabilitation program commencing in April 1984, under retroactive
financing
Loan signing: July 1984
Loan Effectiveness: August 1984
Loan Closing Date: June 30, 1989
1/ Including initital deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account.
Source: Mission estimates
March 1984



-49-
,kld 4.5
RRZL
jeamo amomi Aao: F.EXB QWp of B4ft    RhWila                       adSevtbmd  2t!.t
oEf 11ur (X)-
}1id          setc          I        eth P Tls-qr            IJ&t    "mBB  d               ck     1     :      d   Be  -tfl G=
OKM)    cG      BW        Xes TeoC;    TadM liOdA&O   'Etl  lbui  Cm   2C    +2M1
1a/a  En=JR-324-R1o  5muIt 1.1) 5La0)  1l,l2            202     161    284       711      161       2,699   11,754   37      22  .22
lD0lBS Ehtr1F3*-o 9xc(Lte 1.2  40.6)                                                                                 3        1     3
ii    to amw-r  Pem(Icee 2.1)   44.5)    89        170      159    28       7M       15        2,33    II,M4   3         1      3
0/8   Ml Suo-    Ptem(             2.2)   45.5)                                           1
4071BA :3trJR32(Cqu    )-Ffto   58.9            324     164     187    437       314      310       1,736    2,024   70      59     59
040"G  ntvLa GDIko/wpeii,T            52.6      431      88      -      117      455      UX7       1,20B    6,02    57      45     4
26ZAGt        PWocmmt35R34            62.    1,234      le       so    32       405        61       2,256    5.775   48      40     40
3651w,; ptes/dbte  ere-tuba  44.0              718       83     347     -        427       -        1,575    2,826   30      li    16
163/CW   QA-twivad   (low 4)   52.0            866      79      178  182        865       -        2,170    1,404   36      34      34
163/ms caWQrPqLdo (Tllte 3)   46.0             866      79    8178Z 865s                  -         2,170  1.36   43         41     41
163/1   Cw   twnifeMvis.MM            7310     487      113     L29    3I0      560       -         1,579    5,062   52      43     43
a7qfHtl      d _                     65.7     684      197     365    527       392      ISO       2,165    3,559   93      69     69
0WIX   Dav    Es/0<0Jo                63.0   1,040      311     360    668      114       262       2,755    4808   47       29     29
Z393/R  M1M Raode-          Rlas      50.0   1,463      438      -     405    1,842        -4,148    6,126   81              67     67
116JRS Ebwact SoUleopld               12.8  19,946   1.6853   3,u86  1,869      595       50       28,08s    3,673   61      50     51
153/itS JeEwggelt 43-1) V             33.3)    230       32      so     94       60        29         575      n.a.  n.*    t6a.   U.
153/9S jerWm-Be(ae 43.4               35.3)
L93itSled    (lote 44.1)          35.0)
53/9, J ~        44.V)          34.6)
29D/RS 1Aj   Gca-SGbra                37.0   1,593       84      95     94      757       316       2,939    2,404   76  fi3        64
MM lsuao Gm go Vada2                  33.0     770      131     351    319      185        54       1,B2         a     a.X. UL
3615s IB=cDmRLsqtc         jR15116    34.B   1,018      163     155    34g      495       274       2,454   -3,768   62      41     42
471li Pwtwo  rne-Se           CrL V   26.6)  1,296       56      58    760      352       564       3,066      na   na.a na.   n.a.
471/llS  IsDm  OnakSenu DJ            32.4)
472t1S Pte.s/ftv,    l ea   2/   35.0          753       43     167    Ila       111       74       1,266      n.n. va                a
io0    (rzrs )bnc (Cbo                 8.0 3/ 5,771     334   1,608  1,866      322       253      ,1054       784   89      73     74
23Z(P  Sno        C62.0   1,127                         170     170    411      282       279       2,428    4,250   69      57     57
737/ER Ccve-tz dD 1000 2/             49.6)    242      249     2b9    466       935      212       2,013      na            na_ na
27P  Clsrie-a do Tona,                40-4)
376/P  Q=lia-eu                       43.0   1,981      279     115    524    2.032        -        4,931    5,265   85      70     70
476ML Lw-o Hnte ot   1)   V    48.5)    639              78      53    122      497       261       1,650      na   U4   .j         n.
4761IR  ri-Co Mlot"(e 2)              3D.5)
101/9C M=cneftenoE-z-*                5D.2   2,176  l96          -     414    1,309       574       4.669    6.712   71      59     59
470/3C Mmmm-MAm                       36.0   2,523      182     312    665       577      143       4.402    2,470 1IM       as     as
470/SC Um.__-ndm                      35.0   2,.023     151     257    548      476       li8       3.573    3,285   62      52     52
29D/sc sjmto dD s l-fr (Lame 2)   33.3)    554          67     -      581      474        76       1,752    7,838   26      20     20
2BO/SC S.BmdtD dD R-SJ1a (lAse 1)   22.1)
Firs   p   4/                                                                                                 56     44      44
I/ Hw*F         =IS - Cr. 946.
3/   epadr tD s a 8 km stretcho the sect ;        the renne 11.5 In tome cocrt pw4et.
Odg1        amage (by inptt).
,9 :11e



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Bank Assistance to the Transp-rt Sector
A. Highway Subsector
(i) Highway Projects
1.        The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October
1968) was instrumental in setting the framework for Bank involvement in the
Brazilian transport sector. Together with this loan, the Bank reached
agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
things, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road user charges, the
reduction of railway deficits and the improvement of port administration.
The project included detailed engineering, construction, paving, and
supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states; the
project was successfully completed in September 1972, about a year later than
expected. The delay vas mainly due to design changes and problems with
earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some sections, total project costs were
lower than anticipated. The audit re-estimated rates of return for the roads
were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates;
they ranged from 14 to 40% (PPA Report No. 1026 dated February 12, 1976).
2.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970)
included construction and paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering
of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies of 3,256 km. The project provided
technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory capabilities
of DNER. Problems were encountered during construction, and delays
occurred. As a result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two
years behind schedule. Final cost was about 6% above appraisal estimates.
The audit rate of return for the project was higher than the appraisal
estimate (36 as against 27%), mainly because of much higher-than-anticipated
traffic growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely
by Brazilian firms under strict specifications and quality controls agreed
with the B'nk.  The experiences gained by the Brazilian construction industry
and DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as
demonstrated by the performance of followup projects (PPA Report No. 644,
dated June 21, 1977, based on the PCR dated October 27, 1976).
3.        Feasibility and engineering studies included under the Second
Highway Project formed the basis for the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April, 1972 and Loan 854-BR, US$51 million,
August 1972). They included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervison. Civil works in both projects faced the same
problems encountered during the Second Highway Project. Completion of both
projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at the end of 1977. Underestima-
tion of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973 and 1974
caused substantial cost overruns. Re-estimated rates of return, however,
were considerably above appraisal estimates: 45% and 29% against 25% and 16%
respectively (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No. 2571 of June 8, 1979). The
PPAR noted that inadequate detailed engineering for these two projects
contributed to substantial quantity and cost increases. It also pointed out
deficiencies in traffic forecasting.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
4.        The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR, US$110 million, January
1975) set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation
and strengthening. The project includes (a) construction and upgrading of
612 km of federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical
assistance to DNER to improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing
Station Program (44 stations); (d) detailed engineering for road construc-
tion, upgrading and rehabilitation; and (e) feasibility studies for three new
highways totaling about 900 km.
5.        The project has been affected by cost overruns in civil works and
delays in the implementation of the Weighing Station Program and highway
rehabilitation in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul. All components of the
project have been completed except the Weighing Station Program. To date, 21
stations have been completed, and the remaining 23 stations are scheduled for
completion during the second half of 1984.
6.        The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August
1978) provides continuity to the Bank's involvement in rehabilitation and
maintenance. The project includes (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and the execution of the detailed engineering for
about another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a highway maintenance and
rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Stations Program (30 weighing stations); and (d) consulting services to the
Road Research Institute (IPR) to carry out research into pavement overlay
design and to GEIPOT to complete research studies necessary to improve the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model.
7.        Project implementation was affected by delays from the beginning.
Further, the highway rehabilitation program was halted in 1980 for a year.
The reactivated program was adversely affected by lack of funds up to
mid-1983. DNER is now giving priorities to contracts under Bank financing,
and, with the backing of the Bank Special Action Program, the implementation
of rehabilitation has recently accelerated. As of March 1984, the
rehabilitation program was 75Z complete, and full completion is expected by
the end of 1984.   Similarly, highway rehabilitation in Parana has been
affected by the low level of funding. This program, presently about 80%
complete, is also expected to be finished by the end of 1984. Under the
recently redefined weighing station program, 10 of the 29 weighing stations
are scheduled for completion by the end of 1985 and the remainder by
mid-1986. DNER's Pavement Research Program was also hampered by restricted
budgetary allocations, but a method for the design of pavement overlays has
been developed and is being tested. The project, as a whole, is expected to
be completed by mid-1986, about three years later than originally envisaged.
8.        The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan
2062-BR, US$240 million, November 1981) consists of (a) the construction of
the Canpinas-Ariquemes section (about 1084 km) of the Northwest Highway,



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                      Page 3 of 5
364-BR; (b) a program for strengthening Rondonia State highway department
(DER-RO), including construction of district buildings, acquisition of
equipment and technical assistance; and (c) two feeder road programs with
BNDES in the States of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, which include construction
and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads.
9.        The Northwest highway construction, after initial delays due to
inadequate funding, is progressing well, and, as of March 1984, is about 65%
complete. Supported by increased Bank financing under the Bank's Special
Action Program, there is a good prospect for completing this project
component by October 1984. The project component for the strengthening of
DER-RO has not been progressing satisfactorily. At the end of March 1984,
only about 25% of the appraisal schedule had been achieved, largely as a
result of delays in starting technical assistance. The project is already
two years behind the original schedule, which envisaged project completion by
the end of 1985. The feeder road component of the project was about 50%
complete as of March 1984 and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985,
e.g., about six months behind schedule.
(ii) Feeder Roads Projects
10.       The First Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million, iarch
1976), represented an innovative approach to the problem of channeling Bank
support toward the improvement of secondary and access roads, which, in
Brazil, is the responsibility of the states and the municipalities. The
project was conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's National
Economic Development Bank, BNDE, to finance roughly 50Z of the subloans
extended by BNDE to DERs or to municipal consortia to carry out secondary and
feeder road programs in support of agricultural production. The subprojects
are prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well publicized
criteria embodied in a manual.
11.       The project was slow in starting because beneficiaries took more
time than anticipated to familiarize themselves with the procedures and to
establish their working relationships with BNDE. The loan has been fully
committed, financing 18 subprojects in 12 States comprising 5,400 km of roads
and 110 separate bridges. However, implementation has been slowed by
financial problems. Because the purchasing power of the ORTN (the monetary
unit in which subloans are made) has decreased and because of cost overruns,
the subborrowers have seen their share of the cost increase by 40% to 60% and
have not been able to keep up the pace of execution of their subprojects.
BNDE prepared, in May 1981, a reformulation of the subprojects under the
First and Second Feeder Roads (para 12) loans: (a) to reduce the scope of
individual subprojects, in line with the capacity of the subborrowers, so
that all subprojects can be completed by June 1984 for the First Loan and by
the end of 1985 for the Second; and (b) to provide additional financing for
13 of the ongoing 16 subprojects in order to restore the participation of
BNDE/IBRD to its initial level. Supplementary subloans for subprojects under
the First Loan are being financed under the Second. Physical implementation
reached about 96%, and 94% of the Loan amount was disbursed, as of March 1,
1984.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
12.       The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, June 1979, US$110
million) was intended to provide continuity to the program assisted by the
First Project. Physical implementation was about 50% completed by January
1984, e.g., about six months behind appraisal schedule. The loan is now
fully committed, financing 16 subprojects ii' 15 States, comprising 4,700 km
of roads and 239 bridges. The project faced some of the difficulties
encountered under the First Feeder Roads Project, especially the declining
purchasing power of the ORTN.
13.       The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million) was
approved by the Board in December 1982, and the Loan was declared effective
in June 1983. The project will support the continuation of the National
Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES 11, as well as significant
policy development and institution-building efforts for BNDES. The project
consists of provision of subloans for the contruction, improvement or
rehabilitation of a total of approximately 8,000 km of roads for a total cost
of about US$500 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, including technical
assistance for advisory services and training of staff to improve the
maintenance capability of subborrowers.  Subprojects elegible for Bank
financing are currently being prepared, but no subloan has yet been
contracted. The strengthening of BNDES' management is also being delayed by
a recent reorganization of the department of BNDES responsible for the
administration of the project.
B. Railway Subsector
14.       For the railway subsector, the Bank has made two loans to RFFSA and
one loan to FEPASA 2,. The first loan to RFFSA (Loan 786-BR, 1971, US$46
million) helped to finance railway facilities for the transport of iron ore.
The second loan to RFFSA (Loan 1074-BR, 1975, US$175 million) helped to
finance a portion of RFFSA's five-year investment plan. The loan to FEPASA
(Loan 1171-BR, 1975, US$75 million) helped to finance FEPASA's investment
plan. These three projects have been completed. Since the Bank's first
involvement with both railways, there have been improvements in operations,
in general administration and, to a limited extent, in the railways'
financial positions as well as a significant traffic growth. The Bank also
made a loan (Loan 1839-BR, 1980, US$159 million) to support the Second Urban
Transport-Porto Alegre --Project, which includes the construction of a
suburban rail mass transit system, and it is participating in the financing
of the Carajas Iron Ore Project (Loan 2196-BR, 1982, US$304.5 million), which
includes the construction of an 890-km railroad in Northern Brazil for the
purpose of exporting iron ore.
1/ Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social.
2/ Two other railway loans (Loans 65-ER and 92-BR for US$12.5 million each),
were made in 1952 and 1953 to the "Central do Brazil" railway company,
which is now part of RFFSA.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
C. Port Subsector
15.       For the port subsector, the Bank has made one loan to PORTOBRAS
(Loan 756-BR, 1971, US$45 million). This loan assisted the Santos Port
Authority in constructing a container terminal and some 53 km of railroad and
in providing consultant services for engineering and management studies. In
addition, the loan provided for consulting services for improvement of the
National Department of Ports and Waterways (DNPVN) and for an overall Port
Study. After substantial delays in implementation, involving changes in
project scope and large cost overruns, the project was completed and the loan
closed officially in 1980.
March 1984



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Road Maintenance Training Program
Introduction
1.        In view of its policy which places increased emphasis on
maintenance of the existing road network, DNER wishes to undertake a
comprehensive manpower development plan to help improve the cost
effectiveness and productivity of road and equipment maintenance operations
on federal and state highways.
2.        While its involvement in training of engineers goes back to 1972,
DNER has not yet estabished an appropriate institutional framework for
broad-based road maintenance training either in DNER or in DERs. For nearly
two decades, DNER and DERs and, more recently, private contractors carried
out the bulk of maintenance operations, and, although the majority of DRF and
DER maintenance personnel are reasonably competent, they have not benefited
from systematic training which exposed them to a sound maintenance management
system and more effective work methods.
Training Program
3.        The proposed Training Program aims at assisting DNER in strengthen-
ing IPRI's training capability and expanding its existing physical training
facilities to enable it to (a) prepare and conduct courses for DRF and DER
engineers in its main office or in a selected district; (b) participate in
the preparation and implementation of cost-effective training programs to
upgrade DRF and DER road/equipment maintenance personnel; (c) organize
training courses and programs which can be conducted by suitable existing
national training institutions; and (d) design a system for monitoring
courses during implementation and for evaluating the effectiveness of
programs after their completion. The Training Program would be divided into
two phases to enable all actions related to the preparatio-x of the program to
ba carried out within a specific timeframe during Phase I, and all actions
related to implementation, supervision and evaluation of training to be
carried out during Phase II.
4.        A Training Steering Committee consisting of DNER executives -
Director of Maintenance, Director of IPR, the Coordinator of Financing,
Executive Directorate - and one of the Directors General of the participating
DERs has already been established by DNER. The main functions of the
Committee will be to periodically review DNER's training policy and to
determine the areas, programs and techniques for the carrying out of training
activities. Furthermore, DNER would enter into a Subsidiary Agreement
(Convenio) with each participating DER regarding administrative, financial
and administrative arrangements for program implementation.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
5.        In addition to strengthening the training capability of IPR, the
Training Program would include:
(a)   setting up two permanent training centers in the residencias of the
DRFs of Santa Catarina and Goias, initially responsible for the
retraining and upgrading of DRF maintenance personnel in these
states. Each center would have a small dormitory and cafeteria
facilities; training equipment and materials, including
audio-visual training aids; instructors selected from DRF
technicians and one training officer and support staff to organize
and supervise agreed training activities; and
(b)   establishing new, or strengthening existing, permanent training
divisions within DERs in the states of Ceara, Maranhao, Pernambuco,
Para and Rio Grande. With initial assistance of IPR, DERS would
prepare comprehensive programs to ensure continuous and systematic
training of their maintenance personnel. Each DER would build or
expand existing physical training facilities, purchase training
equipment and materials and audio-visual aids, select and train
suitable staff to become instructors, and appoint and train heads
of the training divisions. The DERs are expected to extend
training to maintenance personnel in selected municipalities.
6.        During the training program, an estimated 700 DRF and DER engineers
and technicians would attend short-term courses and/or seminars to be
conducted by IPR. In addition, about 2,240 DRF and DER personnel involved in
routine maintenance operations would also attend theoretical and practical
courses varying from a few weeks to four to six months. The breakdown of
personnel estimated to be trained is as follows:
DNER/IPR              DRFs                DERs
365          Santa Catarina 156       Ceara         300
335          Goias           296      Maranhao      344
700                          452      Para          306
Pernambuco   540
Rio Grande do
Norte      300
1,79
Training Methodology
7.        Training of DRF and DER road supervisors/foremen and equipment
operators/drivers would be carried out mostly in the field by adopting a
system of training through production. Road Training Production Units
(RTPUs) would be organized to conduct training while, at the same time,
carrying out maintenance operations on paved and unpaved road sections within
DRF/DERs' annual maintenance program. The trainees assigned to the RTPUs
would thus be trained under actual working conditions; theoretical training
would be conducted in one of the classrooms at the center. Training of
DRF/DER mechanics would be conducted mostly at selected workshops where
physical facilities already exist, in most cases, but which may require



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
modest alterations; in addition, some general courses would be held in a
classroom. Repairing road maintenance equipment would form the basis of
mechanical staff training. While DRF staff from Santa Catarina and Goias are
expected to be trained in their residencias, DRP staff in other states who
wish to attend training/upgrading courses would share either DRFs' or
DERs'training facilities.
8.        Training officers and instructors required by DRFs and DERs to
prepare, implement and supervise training activities would be selected from
existing staff. Since they would have only limited experience in training,
they would attend training courses at CENAPOR, a national training center,
and other similar institutions. Training equipment and materials, including
road maintenance equipment, some workshop equipment and tools, audio-visual
training aids, and already available courses on road/equipment maintenance
easily adaptable to the Brazilian needs would be obtained. IPR, as well as
DRFs and DERs, would require the alterations or expansion of existing
physical facilities. These would be kept to the minimum essential since the
majority of training activities would be carried out on-the-job.
Technical Assistance
9.        DNER would engage consultants to assist IPR in carrying out tle
Training Program. In addition to extensive experience in their specific area
of expertise, the members of the consultants' team would have proven
experience in training. The team would include: (a) a team leader,
experienced in highway sector and management training; (b) an expatriate
specialist experienced in preparing and conducting extensive training
programs for road and equipment maintenance personnel; (c) a specialist in
road/equipment maintenance cost accounting; (d) a specialist in equipment
management and maintenance; (e) a specialist in warehousing of spare parts
and materials; and (f) a specir'ist in road maintenance and materials,
including application of surface dressing and resealing. It is envisaged
that the team leader and the expatriate specialist would provide 25
man/months of service each, while the service time of the other specialist
would aggregate to about 46 man/months. An additional ten man/months is
anticipated for the services of other specialists to be identified during the
implementation of the program.
Cost of the Training Program
10.       The estimated cost of the Training Program is US$8.71 million
equivalent, as detailed on page 4 of this Annex, of which US$6.59 million
would be financed from the proposed loan. No funds would be used for the
financing of the operating cost, including per diem, of the RMPUs and MTPUs
in the two DRFs. DNER has agreed to bear all cost of the training program
related to the participating DERs, except the cost of new maintenance
equipment, which would be repaid to DNER in accordance with terms and
conditions to be agreed in the Subsidiary Agreement.
March 1984



.- w
FL HIU5i SEC=  EtT
RoPd Tint       Trainin Progm
Cst Eetlniti
(lB$ '000)                                        Mwrdh 1984 Pdia
EN_ R_DE R
D  Sta.    D                             Rio rad
IER    Cataria   Goias    Penimico   Caer        do Norte r_     w)    Para      Total
A. 1RXNI FAUt
1. New Civil Works                   186.0    17.0    71.0        49.0       40.0       65.0      115.0      66.0
2. Inprovemt to Exting Faclities       -       9.0    15.0        31.0         -          -          -         -
3. urniture ard Fixture               6.0      L.0    21.0        21.0       25.0       29.0       19.0      15.0
192.0    30.0    107.0      101.0       65.0       94.0      134.0      81.0    804.0
B. IRANING EqplMIEN
1. Road Maintenane Equlpment           -     225.0   288.0       500.0      400.0      500.0      310.0    480.0
2. Workshop pEquipent                  -      30.0    30.0        37,0       30.0       50.0       31.0      31.0
3. Tools                               -       5.0      3.0        4.0        5.0       10.0        1.0      12.0
4. Spare Parts                         -      75.0   110.0       180.0       80.0      100.0      240.0      45.0
5. IAoimtua l Equipmnrt                -      14.0    11.0        33.0        5.0       10.0        5.0       5.0
-     349.0   422.0      754.0       52D.0     670.0       587.0    573.0  3,875.0
C. OPEA=    S m OF R1?JB AND M1TV's
1. Fuel ad Oil                         -      180.0    70.0      154.0      150.0      180.0      150.0       .0
2. Asphalt, Sad, GCavel, etc.          -      150.0    50.0      141.0      130.0      18D.0      123.0      80.0
3. Per Diem                            -      130.0    80.0      173.0      12D.0      115.0      159.0    120.0
4. Trazuport for TraIin                -       12.0     8.0        8.0        8.0        4.0        7.0      12.0
5. Uhlforms, Seozirty Equipet          -        -        -         -          4.0        4.0       11.0        -
-     472.0   208.0      476.0       412.0     483.0       450.0    442.0   2,943.0
D. CCJMNllr   CICE AND IRAININ CC
1. CmSUtamt SerVie                  655.0       -        -         -           -         -           -         -
2. Training of = Iistructors, ixuIudtig
Per Diem ad Trauport                 -       -        -        49.0        25.0      73.0        46.0     22.0
3. IPR Couam, Ircludiz frqmratio,                                                                                              ?
Per Diemard Transport             221.0      -        -          -          -          -           -        -
876.0      -        -        49.0       25.0       73.0       46.0      22.0    1,091.0
1,068.0   851.0   737.0    1,380.0    1,022.0    1,320.0    1,217.0   1,118.0    8,713.0    *
Suree: MM ad !Fa.
March 1984



- 59 -                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Research Program
The program comprises the following research projects 1/:
March 1984 Prices
Estimated Costs
Total 1985 1986 1987
US$ 1000
A. Soils and Materials
1. Design and construction of prototype
equipment for production of aggregates
from clays                                       405   220   185   -
2. Lateritic soils and their use in roads             80    40    40   -
3. Development of reinforcing techniques
for rigid pavements                               50    40    30   20
4. Embankments on compressible soils                  40    25    15   -
5. Surface drainage of pavements                     150     -    30   20
6. Basic hydrological studies for drainage
structures                                        150     -    80   70
7. Standards and specifications for low volume
roads in difficult, high rainfall areas          450   100   150  150
8. Performance of materials and pavements
listed on IPR's circular test track              200    40    80   80
B. Traffic and Safety
9. Road capacity, second stage                       100    30    40   30
10. Developing airfoils for heavy trucks and rigs  100        -    50   50
11. Traffic safety studies                            150    50    50   50
C. Systems Development
12. Optimization model for flexible and rigid
. pavements                                         125    65    60    -
13. Development of methodology and data processing
for pavement management system                   220    65    85   70
D. Equipment
14. Productivity of road paving equipment             180    65    65   50
15. Development of apparatus and instruments
for studying the physical behavior of roads    200    50    90   60
E.  Contingencies for other Studies                      250    50   100  100
Total                                        2,800   800 1,200  800
11 Brief description of the projects is given on pages 2 and 3 of this
Annex.



ANNEX 3
- 60 -                        Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Research Program
A. Soils and Materials
1.        The study on the development of mobile plant for producing
aggregate from clay is particularly designed to alleviate the material
problems in the Amazon basin. Initial tests have given encouraging results,
but further development is necessary to make such a process economically and
commercially attractive.
2.        Studies in various parts of the world indicate that laterites of
lesser quality than earlier assumed can perform well under given
circumstances. The establishment of m re appropriate criteria for evaluation
of laterites is likely to lead to their increased use as basecourse for
medium-to-low traffic roads and could thus cause considerable savings.
3.        The development of reinforcing techniques for rigid (concrete)
pavements will essentially consist of adaptation of existing knowledge in
this practically difficult field in order to arrive at guidelines and
criteria suitable for Brazil.
4.        This study will involve the detailed investigation of two road
sites with highly compressible subsoil, where problems have been
experienced. It will involve data collection, instrumentation, field and
laboratory testing, and analysis to arrive at design criteria for embankments
on these typical subsoils.
5 and 6. These two studies deal with the practical problem of pavement
drainage, in the face of often scant hydrological and hydraulic data, and the
development of criteria and methodology for the design of adequate but
efficient drainage structures.
7.        This study will examine the problems of building roads under
difficult conditions, characterized by high rainfall and shortage of good
road building materials, for low traffic volumes, in order to define
standards and specifications for design, construction and maintenance that
will make such roads technically and economically viable.
8.        IPR has a circular test track for testing of road building
materials under semi-field conditions. The track has not, however, been wuch
used, mainly because of lack of funds to operate it. This project would
allow a series of materials tests to be undertaken.
B. Traffic and Safety
9 and 10. The road capacity study will be a continuation of earlier studies
of this important parameter in Brazil and will contribute to the much needed
updating of DNER's Road capacity Manual. The optimization of road capacity
design has important potential for energy savings, as has the perfection of
airfoils for reduction of air resistance on freight vehicles.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
11.       The traffic safety studies are foreseen in connection with the
safety component of this project.
C. Systems Development
12 and 13. These two studies form key elements of the research program, as
well as DNER's efforts to introduce and put into operation a rational
pavement management system in Brazil. Both studies are essentially
continuations of earlier studies by IPR and others (para 3) and represent a
very critical input by IPR to establish criteria and guidelines. They are,
therefore, very high priority items.
D. Equipment
14.       The study on the productivity of road paving equipment is a
continuation of earlier studies on road construction maintenance equipment.
This study is important in the context of the present Imbalance among
equipment holdings, availability of operators, and operating funds of DNER.
15.       This project is intended to assist in the development of Brazil's
capabilities to design and construct road-testing equipment not yet produced
in Brazil, or to modify and/or improve equipment types already operating in
the country.
March 1984



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Pavement Management System
Background
1.        Over the past five years, the DNER Directorates have gathered data
and developed methodologies for improving the decision-making process related
to each Directorate. However, only limited progress has been made in using
the planning and evaluation techniques available for determining balanced
expenditure programs, since there has not been an apprapriate institutional
framework to coordinate the pertinent activities. The current era of limited
budgets makes it imperative that DNER further develop a system to determine
investment priorities which yield the highest economic returns to the
country. In order to accelerate the process, the General Directorate of
DNER, in late 1982, created a Permanent Pavement Management Committee (PPMC)
with the purpose of consolidating and improving DNER's Pavement Management
System. During 1983, PPMC's activity was mainly concentrated on the
technical and administrative aspects of planning a comprehensive road
condition survey, to be carried out during the second half of 1984. Survey
methodologies are being developed and coordination with DRFs has commenced,
including training for staff to be involved in the survey.
Broadening the Functions of PPMC
2.        Following discussions with the Bank, DNER has recognized that the
terms of reference for PPMC were not sufficiently broad enough for promoting
a fully integrated planning process leading to pluriannual investment plans
based on appropriate project selection criteria. DNER, therefore, through
Service Instruction No. DG/03/84, expanded the functions of the PPMC with the
following major objectives:
(a) carrying out periodic inventories of the road pavement
condition, based on objective measurements;
(b) estimating pavement deterioration, by means of pavement
performance projection models, taking due account of scheduled
maintenance activities;
(c) determining the most suitable maintenance timing and strategy,
taking into account the total cost of road transportation; and
(d) preparing annual and multiannual maintenance and paving
programs, optimized in terms of economic benefits and financial
constraints.
3.        In order to accomplish the above-outlined objectives, the Director
General, in exercise of his regulatory power, assigned the following
functions to PPMC:



- 63 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
(a) promote the preparation of instructions and methodologies and
their distribution among the concerned departments in DNER;
(b) promote personnel training through the Highway Research
Institute;
tc) promote, guide and monitor the periodic pavement surveys
conducted by DRFs and 'residencias";
(d) coordinate and supervise the scheduled activities during their
execution;
(e) set up and regularly update a data file and, in due course,
incorporate it into the DNER's Data Processing System;
(f) carry out economic analyses of the data and develop investment
options;
(g) submit proposals to the Director General on programs of
investment in new road sections, and in road improvement and
maintenance;
(h) submit a three-year investment program for the period 1986-1988
to the Director General; and
(i) periodically update the 1986-1988 Investment Program,
incorporating improved procedures and new field data.
Work Program
4.        In accordance with the above-outlined directives, PPMC has prepared
a work program (page 3 of this Annex) indicating the major steps in the
development of DNER's 1986-1988 Investment Program.
5.        To assist PPMC in carrying out its work program, the services of an
experienced foreign pavement management expert (4 months), a highway engineer
C27 months), and a systems analyst (27 months) would be provided under the
proposed project.
March 1984



Pavement Managememt SZstem
Works Program
1 9 8 3                  1 9 8 4                  1 9 8 5            1 9 8 6
J|B|M|A|iM|J|J|A|S|O|N|D J M|IA|iMI|J|JAISIO|N|D J F|M  A M JJ A S0 N    JF M A M
Compilation of data and instruments
available in DNER                  _        _
Preparation of instructions and 
methodologies
Training of resident engineers
Pilot study carried out in 7th.DRF
First annual survey to ba carried
out by the "residencias"
Irregularity measurements on
homogenous subsections
Monitoring of services performed
by the gresidencias"
Compilation and critical review of
data flles by DPDD I/and DPP 2/
Sampling assessment of consistency
of files by PPMC
Data processing by DPDD and DPP
Economic analysis and development
of investment options'
Preparation of Maintenance Invest-
ment Program (DPP and DPDLv)
Preparation of the Three-Year
Investment Program for 1986-1988
(DPP and DPDD)
Updating of investment programs,
incorporating improved procedures
and new field data (DPP and DPDD)
1/ Data Processing Division
2/ Planning and Programs Division
Source: DNER
March 1984



- 65 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Road Rehabilitation and Strengthening Component
1.        The road rehabilitation and strengthening component has been
subject to adequate economic analysis during project preparation, in the
context of the development of the pluriannual maintenance program. DNER's
basic objective has been to determine an economic balance between
rehabilitation, overlaying and resealing expenditures for the federal highway
network, which would minimize total present transport costs for distinct
levels of budgetary availability. The network has been examined on a
sample basis through the consideration of 90 representative sections,
reflecting different pavement conditions and structural characteristics,
which have been aggregated in nine traffic categories for the purpose of
economic analysis.
2.        DNER initially developed several policy alternatives for the period
1984-1993, by combining distinct standards and types of works, based on the
condition of the network, but taking into consideration a first estimate of
total financial infrastructure costs associated with the implementation of
each alternative. Subsequently, policy interaction with road condition,
environment and traffic was modeled, using the Bank-developed HDM (release
II). Basically, the model is a microeconomic systems analysis framework
allowing for the estimation of vehicle operating costs as a function of road
characteristics, including, inter alia, roughness. This is a pavement-
condition-related variable, varying through time as a function of initial
type and condition of pavement, traffic, climate and maintenance policies
associated with alternative investment levels and strategies.
3.        Results of the EDM simulation allowed for a redefinition of the
initial policies, taking into account economac optimality within each
policy package and a refined estimate of capital requirements associated with
each policy to match distinct levels of budgetary availability. The planning
exercise has been reiterated, and five final policies, each corresponding to
a specific budget and an associated allocation of expenditures for different
categories of works, were pre-selected. These policies were then simulated
through HDM, and compared by means of investment efficiency indicators.
4.        The recommended policy would yield a Net Present Value (NPV)
estimated at about Cr$ 1,260 billion for a discount rate of 11%. Since this
is the value assumed for the opportunity cost of capital in Brazil, that
policy is economically justified. In addition, it is also the preferred
policy with respect to the alternatives analyzed which satisfied foreseeable
budget constraints, since it is the one maximizing the NPV. This result has
been confirmed under sensitivity tests carried out for different scenarios
concerning traffic growth, variations in costs and the value assumed for the
shadow exchange rate.



- 66 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
5.        The selected policy reflects a somewhat less-than-desirable
investment pattern, if the opportunity cost of capital were the only
guideline to consider when formulating subsector investment decisions.
Another policy evaluated by DNER yields the highest NPV, although at almost
50% additional capital requirements over the recommended policy, for the
period 1984-1987. The recommended policy would, in turn, be some 90% more
costly on an undiscounted basis, in the period 1988-1993. Nevertheless, the
financing requirements of DNER's maintenance program, arising from the
implementation of the recommended policy, are at the maximum level, which is
compatible with foreseeable budget availability, in the period 1984-1987,
should the proposed Bank loan be considered.
6.        The recommended maintenance strategy reflects, therefore, a
desirable allocation of resources among alternative types of expenditures,
given the adequate balance between the different components of DNER's overall
investment program and the foreseen scarcity of maintenance funds over the
period 1984-1987. DNER's adopted policy would assign priority to investments
in rehabilitation, followed by overlays, and with a marginal share of
resources allocated to resealing. In physical terms, about the same length
of rehabilitation and overlaying works would be undertaken over the period
1984-1987, while a limited amount of preventive resealing could take place on
sections of the network with low traffic levels and reasonably good pavement
condition.
7.        The balance among various categories of expenditures associated
with the recommended maintenance strategy contrasts somewhat with the one
associated with the policy yielding the highest NPV, but requiring
considerably more investment resources in the short term. Such a policy
would involve about 51% of investment being allocated to rehabilitation and
some 45% to overlaying, with less than 3% to resealing, in the period
1984-1987. The absolute amount allocated to overlaying would be considerably
higher than under the recommended policy. This result suggests that, once
investments in rehabilitation are considered, a substantial marginal return
could be obtained from additional investment in overlays if budgetary
resources were made available. A major cost to be incurred, on the
investment side, from the non-availability of such additional resources would
be the higher claims on capital for rehabilitation works in the period
1988-1993.
8.        The economic priority of the investments in rehabilitation would be
equally justified, in any case, since the absolute amount of capital
resources allocated to this categoxy of expenditures in the period 1984-1987
would be similar under both policies. This outcome derives from the
condition of advanced physical deterioration already reached by much of the
network. As a result, and for the foreseeable short-term budgetary
constraints, it is economically justified to adopt a policy which would
allocate a considerable share of the total investment budget to
rehabilitation of a few more deteriorated sections of the network, rather
than spreading it over preventive maintenance of a large number of sections.
The budgetary balance would be allocated to overlaying sections which are not
yet excessively deteriorated, and on which preventive maintenance is
justified, rather than later on more costly full rehabilitation works, with
important benefits being derived, in the meantime, in the form of vehicle
operating costs savings.
I



- 67 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 5
9.        Investment recommendations arising from DNER's analysis of the
pluriannual maintenance program are basically a function of the road
condition survey, of the modeling framework used, of the policies selected
for evaluation and of funding resources. The status of pavement condition
was based on a sample update of the 1979 road survey, but more comprehensive
information would be obtained regularly upon full implementation of the PMS.
Also, a new version of HDM is in the process of being released and would
contribute toward improving the modeling framework available to DNER since it
would be based on empirical evidence collected in Brazil. During project
implementation, DNER would periodically review and update its adopted
maintenance strategy to reflect the availability of better data and improved
analytical tools, in line with foreseeable budgetary availability.
First Group Highway Rehabilitation and Overlaying Subprojects
10.       Complementary to the analysis developed for the preparation of the
four-year maintenance program, DNER carried out independent economic analyses
for the individual subprojects to be included in the proposed project, and
which were already identified at appraisal. The balance between
rehabilitation and overlaying subprojects reflects the priorities of DNER's
maintenance program. In addition, project spatial identification gave
priority to roads located in the export corridors or serving centers of key
economic importance. This priority is reflected in the considerable
proportion of heavy traffic circulating on those roads.
11.       Direct economic benefits to be derived by highway users were
estimated in the form of vehicle operating cost savings, resulting from
improved rolling conditions, and safety and capacity improvements, whenever
applicable. The HDM engineering economics framework has been used to
estimate roughness-related vehicle operating cost savings and to analyze the
evolution of road condition. Infrastructure cost savings, arising from the
implementation of the proposed subprojects, were also quantified. These
savings are the outcome of expenditures which would have to be incurred to
avoid deterioration of road conditions below a given level of service, in the
'without project' alternative. In such circumstances, the maintenance of
that level of service would have been economically justified with respect to
the 'do-nothing' case, since it would have been the next-less-costly
investment alternative recommended in the context of DNER's adopted
maintenance strategy.
12.       On the cost side, economic investment and maintenance costs to
build and operate the proposed facilities during the design life were
considered. The consolidated ERR of the proposed subprojects is estimated at
about 50%, reflecting a choice of the technical solutions in line with the
policy selected at the level of analysis of the maintenance program and the
desirable investment timing.
13.       The ERRs for the two first groups of rehabilitation and overlaying
subprojects and detailed benefit and cost streams, disaggregated by type, are
included in computer printouts available in the Project File. The



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
estimated ERRs are in line with Bank experience in similar projects; they
reflect the traffic volumes and composition adequately, as well as the
investment required to bring the level of service in line with demand.
Sensitivity analysis has been carried out for a 20% decrease in benefits and
a 20% increase in costs. The resulting ERRs indicate that the return on
individual subprojects is basically equally influenced by variations in costs
and in benefits. The combined ERR, under the sensitivity tests, always
remains above 35%.
Basic Assumptions
14.       The following basic assumptions were used in the economic analysis
of DNER's road rehabilitation and strengthening program and of the first
group of highway rehabilitation and strengthening sub-projects:
(a) Traffic: No newly generated or diverted traffic has been
considered. Time savings have not been taken into account;
(b) Economic Costs: Investment costs are based on financial costs,
including 7% supervision and 8% physical contingencies.
Investment, maintenance and vehicle operating costs are
considered in constant December 1983 values, net of taxes and
other transfer payments. Fuel costs were taken at their
border prices plus distribution and retailer's charges. Basic
vehicle characteristics and costs are presented in the table on
the following page.
(c) Period of Analysis: The period of analysis has been assumed as
10 years;
(d) Shadow-Pricing: Foreign exchange has been shadow-priced at 20Z
above the official exchange rate. The discount rate has been
assumed at 11%.
March 1984



6ANNX 5
- 69 -                           Page 5 of 5
Vde  du raictedzti and costs
(Costs In Cnzefrs at Dfer 193  Prim) I/
PBuser4pr                   WL~it                        Euliyd   -
hm                       Tnia         Tur              Ldo         mnto
A. Vebicl Descriptimwe
deiLcle Tpe0 t                   1            4             5  .         5              5             5
Mal ITpe                      (1sdxi       r4lel-0       lIesel-Oll   IXoeel:-U     Diel-l    nflsel.-01
Brae Bxmepmm                    46.0         239.0         93.0        147.0          215.0         385.0
smm Veh. Wd         mtic To)     0.0          13.0         13.0         2D.0           26.0          4D.0
B. Ela.i costs
NewVhic.e                 3,165,410.0  47,384,840.0  11,153,420.0  16,653,880.0   33,718,970.0  41,710,810.0
st/Tire                      26,830.0    279,700.0     93,090.0    206,410.0       254,140.0    298,390.0
Ih1ntenuo labor Cost/gr       5,210.0      5,750.0      5,75D.0       5,750.0        5,750.0      5,750.0
Caw Cobt/or                      0.0       2,160.0      2,160.0      2,160.0         2, 160.0     2,.60.0
VW= eofETImA                     0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
Awma Overland Cost (171)         0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
hum1 Overlad 0  t
1 of Operat1ig Costs           10.0         18.0         18.0          18.0           18.0         18.0
-Tnteot Rae (Z)                  12.0         12.0         12.0          12.0           12.0         12.0
Rel and 1aklKzs (Cost/Litre)    Gvscb   445.0           nL1l-Ol 300.0                    0ll 1,220.0
C. F^lr  oDsts
Mm Vehcle                 2,500,670.0   3,732,505.0   8,811,200.0  13,156,560.0   26,556,260.0  32,842,570.0
ost/I                        24,840.0    259,000.0     86,950.0     190,160.0      235,330.0    276,310.0
-L-wnt   labo Cost/Hr         3,130.0      3,450.0      3,450.0       3,450.0        3,450.0      3,450.0
Caw Cost/Br                      0.0       1,290.0      1,290.0       1,290.0        1,290.0      1,290.0
Valm of Tim/Hr                  0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
A--I OvrtmmdCo( (UI             0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0            0.0          0.0
Inum] 0vexbd Co0t
zof (eruattng Cast             10.0     ,  18.0          18.0          18.0           18.0         18.0
Interest RAre (Z)               12.0          12.0         12.0         12.0           12.0          12.0
Ral and LnFteants (Cost/Jlter)    GObol 265.0             Lemel1-Oi1 253.0                011 1,030.0
D. Ibe1gp &dW Cosft
ew vehicle                  316540.0   4,738,480.0   1,115,340.0   1,665,380.0    3,371,890.0   4,171,080.0
Cbutt1Ire                     7,520.0     78,310.0      26.290.0     57,260.0       71,160.0     83,540.0
11noe Lsbor Cst/kr               0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
CnKCe t/Ik                       0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
Valce of Tine/Hr                 0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
&--I OvezbundClSt8 (TO1)         0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
OA-    Oved Costa
Z of a     8mthW   9ts          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0             0.0          0.0
Imtat Re  e (2)                  0.0           0.0          0.0          0.0            0.0           0.0
E. Veide Ulizattia
- r    lNaber of Pas
per Ve                          2           32            0            0              0             0
hol Operatiig kx.s             622.0       2,000.0      1,600.0       1,600.0        2,000.0      2,000.0
Aial IllamsteDrai'ux         18,000.0    105,00.0     72,OO0.0      72,000.0       91,000.0     91,000.0
Amer Vide Lfe C(ear.)           4.0           5.0          5.0          5.0            4.0           4.0
1/ EeRate MI1- Cr. 946
mm: IN!
O 1984



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.  Aide Memoire, October 21, 1983 - Pre-Appraisal Mission.
2.  Project Brief: Highway Rehabilitation and Resealing Project, November
22, 1983.
3.  Aide Memoire, December 16, 1983 - Appraisal Mission.
4.  Decision Memorandum: Highway Sector Project (Former Highway Pavement
Strengthening and Rehabilitation Project), January 15, 1984.
5.  Aide Memoire, April 5, 1984 - Post-Appraisal Mission.
6. HDM Computer Printouts, December 1983 -  Economic Analysis of the
Pluriannual Highway Rehabilitation and Strengthening Program.
7.  HDM Computer Printouts, December 1983 - Economic Evaluation of Group I
Roads.                    %
8.  Programa de Seguranca Rodoviaria, March 1984, Volume I and II, DNER.
9.  Analise Economica do Programa de Restauracao Periodo 1984-1986, December
1983, DNER.
10. Perspectiva do Sector Rodoviario 1983-1987, October 1984 - Planning and
Programing Division, DNER.
March 1984



All  Ai
Li~~~~~i'
L L.
liiHl 
f S 4}t~~~~~00



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
OrnIzadtalt dtFerl Hlgw  Depoadmt (D N E R)
dim~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
pm                                      bOW                    1I 
Fb-  &SOW*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oca 
AU*~~~IU
-  I
5A.i~ OM tI                 [; :i [X1      AS  b
1.S+XX+tt91= A
.kcm   W,3I                     P.Ak   o         tSOm
Fbh                                 W*Sd *2



18RD 18051
2o0IJ                                                                                                                                                                  40- AN  A    'L.$o         1 -  -  50  APRIL PA
V ve N E Z U E L A    ,_ ,                                                                                            \F R E N C H  8        
URINAME  GUIAN~Aj>\FRN
C O L O M S I A              ('     BOA VISTAj                     /                                       i       \           j      /B
\,OruYANA\ rrct.-               y    FEDERAL HIGH IIGwYANA \S$,.r_                                      FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
'   +   .s,/  \ RORAIMA~ t  - ;AMAPA                                   At                 f  AMAPA
BR O'.M CA LC........I.AA.-.APL/'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%I$,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A     1C   AN  ~'
70NAUS          1. 5 A                           JNAUs LU   k               _     S                                         A LULS
EA     RIO GRANDESONOT
e  Norionol Ccoirol~~~~~~~~P  R                                               p                            !-lr44r     P A' R     >                    o E |)
@    Stote Ccpirols                        etoc:l-<                                                                                    MARAN;H )                                 NATA
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AMA-NA -& S/ote /rio T.'rirory 30u-oGMARANHAG  C.. A                                                  /             PAR A                    MARANHAC            A
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
C'-    } ;*-s;;; I__~.  \...                                                                           ; =  =    A         Z                 L                   r    *PAu~    y           *,.-OZOPSIA
N.~~~,U       r'\   tX ,        /
~7 10';  {' 50 BRNCL    i     0 ;    )0 0-
I  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I'                              MAW   050550D NI 0       )I A
7          7    GIANIAM~OI, MINASGERAI iAsCANI  A sph MNSGRI                                                           
C.... ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ r'*
8 0 L I V I A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     MYO0050 *'u
MATO  50                        CRI NT~~~~BEO  N (SUL                                         BELO      ES RITO SANTO
PARAGUAY ~.CMO /                        Rolt     ,GIAY .CMO /                                         S.
20,                                                                  GRN20.',~                  '            <GAD                                                                                                E
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION  PROGRAM                     .RC.Io,/SO2PUOL.....    .Aot ,SC2AL
JA         SZO~~5 PAULO                                     AmD )'OIO   ANIR
-  Federal Highways Sector Project (Group I Roads)                                       RI-OIDE Jp1I Roodsl
-  Sixth Highway Project RoadsL.N
-   Federal Highwoys                                    50         *     LITIBA
*    Notional Capitol                                                                     4 '*~    ,r1                       C.    "&..IV.
* State capitols                                                 NAIWU~NuM. 
StoRe amd Territory Boundaries                               A?           p6POIS                                          CAT tINSLI
I  - terlttatiortol BoundarieBsI"                                                                                                                                                         N
j    *,  o     PO~~~RTO ALEGRE                                    0*  ~I   PORTO ALEGRE
30                                                                                                                                                        -    ~~~~~~"  ,  *'"*~~~~6'  s-  0.-'-40



