Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3835-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRBCTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$210.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SBCTOR PROJECT
May 30, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1983                                 May 16, 1984
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1 = Cr$577.05                             US$1 = Cr$1,513
Cr$1 = US$0.0017                             Cr$1 = US$.0006609
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Project cost and financing estimates are in prices of March, 1984.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
ADT       -    Average Daily Traffic
DER       -    Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Es tatal)
(State Roads Department)
DNER      -    Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
(National Federal Roads Department)
DRF       -    Distrito Rodoviario Federal
(Federal Roads District)
EBTU      -    Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
(Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise)
EMS       -    Equipment Management System
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FEPASA    -    Ferroviaria Paulista, S. A.
(Sao Paulo Railway)
GEIPOT    -    Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
(National Transport Planning Agency)
HDM Model -    Highway Design and Maintenance Model
INFRAERO  -    Empresa Brasileira de Infraestrutura Aeroportuaria
(Brazilian Enterprise for Airport Infrastructure)
IPRE      -    Instituto de Pesquisas Rodoviarias
(Road Research Institute)
MT        -    Ministerio dos Transportes
(Ministry of Transports)
PMS       -    Pavement Management System
PORTOBRAS -    Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S. A.
(Brazilian Port Enterprise)
RFFSA     -    Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S. A.
(Federal Railway)
SAC       -    Sistema de Administrasao de Conserva9ao
(Road Maintenance Management System)
SEST      -    Secretaria Especial para as Empresas Estatais
(Secretariat for State Enterprise)
SCCI      -    Secretaria Central de Controle Interno
(Central Secretariat for Internal Control)
SEPLAN    -    Secretaria-de Planejamento
(Federal Planning Secretariat)
SUNAMAM   -    Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
(National Agency for Merchant Navy)
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



BRAZIL
HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Federative Republic of Brazil
Project
Executing
Agency:        Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (DNER)
Amount:        US$210.0 million, including a capitalized
front-end fee of about US$0.5 million.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including four years of grace, at a
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The proposed project provides assistance to DNER in the
implementation of a series of programs included in its
1984-1987 Investment Plan. The components of the Plan
supported by the project are: (i) highway rehabilitation
program for the federal highway network; (ii) road safety
program covering improvement of high accident locations,
pavement marking, highway safety campaign and purchase of
equipment for highway police; (iii) training program for
DNER and state highway maintenance personnel and (iv)
technical assistance for a pavement management system, an
equipment management system, and highway research studies.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would be realized directly by
road users in the form of vehicle operating cost savings
resulting from improved pavement and safety conditions.
Most of these benefits would likely be competitively passed
over to the directly productive sectors of the economy and
would affect traffic in the export corridors where most of
the proposed investment would take place. In addition,
technical assistance in training and pavement systems would
contribute to improve DNER's management capabilities.
Risks:         Although continuing economic difficulties could delay
project execution, such risk would be minimized by adequate
monitoring of the implementation of the investment plan in
the context of the three-year rolling budget program for the
private sector. Periodic consultation with the Government
during implementation would contribute toward ensuring that
the project would have the expected impact upon subsector
policy and management.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:1/                           US$ Million -------------
Locatl           Foreign           Total
Highway Rehabilitation        186.29            142.82           329.11
Highway Safety                 24.97             18.97            43.94
Maintenance Training             5.57             3.14              8.71
Highway Research,
Pavement and Equipment
Management                     2.88              1.66             4.54
Total Base Cost                219.71            166.59           386.30
Price Contingencies            33.15             29.55            62.70
Total Project Cost             252.86            196.14           449.00
Front-end Fee on Loan             -                0.52              0.52
Total Financing Required       252.86            196.66           449.52
Financing Plan:             -----US$ Million--------------
Local           Foreijgn          Total           %
Government               239.52              -             239.52          54
IBRD                      13.34             196.66         210.00          46
Total                    256.86             196.66         449.52         100
Estimated Disbursements:  ----…--US$ Million---------------
Bank FY                 85      86      _87       88       89
Annual:                49.6 2/  56.8    54.6   36.6    12.4
Cumulative:            49.6    106.4   161.0  197.6   210.0
Rate of   Over 40%, based on an evaluation of components corresponding to
Return:   85% of total base costs.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4999b-BR of May 23, 1984.
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$76.33 million
equivalent.
2/ Including initial deposit of US$15.0 million into the Special Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$210.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL FOR A
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$210.0
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.5 million to help
finance a Federal Highways Sector Project. The loan would have a term of
15 years, including four years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil"
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs
summarize and complement the findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Figueiredo,
completes its six-year term in March 1985. Its main economic priorities
have included the growth of agriculture, the expansion of manufactured
exports and reduced dependence on imported oil, and at the same time an
improvement in the situation and prospects of the most economically
disadvantaged people and regions, especially in the Northeast. The prime
political concern has been the return to a fully democratic system of
Government. The most recent major step in this direction was the general
election held in November 1982 for all state governors and executive
officials and for the federal legislature, including deputies and
senators. Election of the next president is scheduled for January 1985.
4.        Much of the Government's attention, since 1980, has had to be
diverted from longer-term political and economic change because of the
stabilization problems confronting Brazil. Success in tackling inflation
and a difficult short-term balance-of-payments situation is crucial to its
prospects for a return to satisfactory rates of growth and the capacity to
improve income distribution and regional balance. In spite of the economic
recession and consequent political pressures, substantial progress has been
made towards the structural changes needed for Brazil's next stage of
development.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are similar to those included in the
North and Center-West Urban Basic Education Project (Report
No. 3784-PR) dated April 24, 1984.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a rermarkab:le 11% annual growth in GDP in the
years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a significant
liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further substantial
growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual average rate
of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the large increases
in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international recession, and the
sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive Brazilian governments
sought to maintain output and employment growth through policies
characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial and
agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprise; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's external debt more than doubled from US$28.4 billion to
US$66.2 billion.
6.        The efforts to redress the external imbalance after 1974, when
the trade deficit increased to US$4.7 billion, created strong internal
pressures and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to
external shocks, and when further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979
and 1980, and interest rates increased, the current account deficit more
than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion and reserves fell to US$5 billion.
Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
7.        Stabilization measures, rely:ing heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of 1.9% in GDP in 1981. The rate of credit expansion
was severely curtailed, commercial bank interest rate controls were
removed, and monetary correction and the exchange rate were brought back
into line with inflation. Industrial output declined by 5.4% as demand for
capital goods and consumer durables contracted. The restoration of export
tax incentives contributed, however, to a 26% growth in manufactured
exports, and a higher transactions tax on imports accelerated their
decline, with nominal imports falling by 15%., The trade balance improved
from a negative US$2.8 billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2
billion in 1981, but there was an increase of US$3 billion, to US$9.2
billion, in net interest payments abroad. Domestic inflation fell, but
only to 95%. The combination of strong policy measures and the
balance-of-payments improvement sUstained confidence among the banks
lending to Brazil, and no problems were experienced in raising the US$10
billion in net lending required for the balance of payments during 1981.
8.        External events over which Brazil had no influence created
exceptionally severe pressures on the economy in 1982. Declining world
commodity prices and economic problems among countries which had been the
growth markets for Brazil's manufactured exports resulted in exports 13%
lower in 1982, in dollar terms, than in 1981. War in the South Atlantic
and, later, the Mexican liquidity crisis, led to a reduction in lending by
the international financial community to Brazil, which was compelled to
increase its short-term borrowing and draw down reserves. Net interest
payments rose to US$11.4 billion and the current account deficit to a
record US$14.8 billion, equivalent to 73% of commodity export earnings. In
late 1982 the loss of its reserves, the reluctance of foreign banks to roll



- 3 -
over existing loans or extend further credits, and bleak international
market prospects led Brazil to seek assistance from the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) in support of a further adjustment program.
9.        In February 1983 the IMF pledged financial assistance of the
order of US$5.4 billion in compensatory financing and through the Extended
Fund Facility, for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were commercial
bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling
of US$4.6 billion in medium- and long-term loans due in 1983, the
maintenance of US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits and the
restoration to US$7.5 billion of the deposits held by foreign banks in
overseas branches of Brazilian banks. These "Phase I" funds were disbursed
in 1983, except that the level of interbank credits to Brazil reached only
US$6.0 billion rather than the US$7.5 billion pledged.
10.       This operation proceeded in the context of stabilization measures
whose primary objective was the reduction of the current account deficit
and external borrowing requirements, with a trade surplus target of US$6
billion in 1983. The cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983 and
subsequently adjusted in line with domestic inflation, implying some
further real devaluation as world prices rose. Import restrictions were
further tightened. Imports fell by 21% in 1983, reflecting both the import
restrictions and reduced domestic demand conditions. Exports increased by
8.5% to US$21.9 billion, in spite of adverse trading circumstances, and a
trade surplus of almost US$6.5 billion was achieved. The current account
deficit was reduced to US$6.2 billion.
11.       The domestic financial targets for 1983 originally agreed with
the IMF were not met, but an amended program agreed later in the year was
substantially achieved. There was a partial deindexation of wages;
monetary correction was again made equal to the full inflation for the
previous month, after having lagged behind it from July to November;
additional fiscal measures were taken to increase revenues and reduce
expenditures; steps were taken to eliminate a number of subsidies; relative
prices for fuel products and wheat were raised and other administered
prices brought into line with the inflation rate; negative real interest
rates for most agricultural and export credits were eliminated; and
monetary policy was tightened to limit increases in the monetary base to an
agreed 90%. The revised public sector borrowing target (18.6% of GDP) and
operational deficit target (2.7% of GDP) were both met, the latter falling
from 6.0% of GDP in 1982.
12.       The short-run cost to the economy of these adjustments was high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by shortages in the
supply of tradable goods, increases in administered prices, very high real
interest rates, and the devaluation referred to in para. 10 above.
Preliminary official estimates show a decline in GDP of 3.3% in 1983,
concentrated in the industrial and commercial sectors. On that basis, per
capita GDP has declined by about 12% in 1981-83, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers.



-4-
The Economic Outlook
13.       Brazil is pursuing in 1984 a stringent adjustment program,
directed internally to the generation of a surplus equivalent to 0.3% of
GDP in the public sector's operational budget, and externally to the
achievement of a massive US$9 billion surplus in commodity trade. Growth
of both the money supply and the monetary base is to be limited to no more
than 50%. Targets for the public sector, which are being closely
monitored, involve improved performance in the central government, state
enterprise, state and municipal and social security budgets equivalent in
total to 3% of GDP, and the overall borrowing requirement is to be reduced
to 11-13% of GDP depending on the level of inflation and its rate of
decline. High inflation has persisted despite the monetary measures taken
to date, but the Government hopes for a decline of up to one-half of the
1983 rate of 211% during 1984, and has not been deterred by the continuing
price rises from taking further steps to adjust relative prices and
liberalize pricing policies. Measures which will have an impact in 1984
include increases in fuel product prices, to prevent the re-emergence of
subsidies; wheat and wheat products price rises designed to eliminate their
subsidy by mid-year; steel and electricity prices adjusted in 1984 to raise
them 5% more than inflation; the liberation of trade in agricultural
commodities; and the avoidance of market prices controls. Trade adjustments
have included the elimination in December 1983 of restrictions on profit
remittances, most multiple currency practices, and bilateral payments
arrangements. The export tax credit system and the financial transactions
tax on foreign exchange will end in 1985, and some import liberalization
measures, including a move towards greater reliance on tariffs rather than
quantitative import controls, are to be introduced this year.
14.       International support fo;r the adjustment program comprises a new
external financing package involving both the commercial banks and official
lending agencies. In addition to rescheduling principal payments of US$5.3
billion, commercial banks will provide US$6.5 billion in new loans, on
terms better than those obtained for the previous year. Official bilateral
aid will add US$2.5 billion in export guarantees and almost US$4.0 billion
in rescheduling through the Paris Club. In March 1984 the first IMF
tranche of $390 million was released and US$3.0 billion in commercial bank
funds was made available. The other US$3.5 billion will be disbursed in
instalments during the year, as will a further US$1.17 billion in IMF
support, subject to quarterly performance reviews. New officially
guaranteed export credits may fall short of the planned US$2.5 billion, but
Brazil's trade surplus has continued to increase, reaching an unprecedented
US$1 billion in the month of March, and US$2.4 billion for the first
quarter of 1984. Manufacturing exports have led this growth and were 40.7%
higher in this quarter than in the same period in 1983.
15.       The necessary resources therefore seem to be assured for 1984,
and there is some hope emerging in Brazil that the worst of the recession
may be past. There is a clear need, however, for further external support,
and for continuing efforts to adjust, to bring the economy back to a
sustainable longer-term external payments position. Careful demand



- 5 -
management must be maintained if inflation is to be brought under control.
Public investments will continue to be limited by reduced resource
availabilities, probably for several years, and within the reduced total
substantial local cost financing may be required. Agricultural and
industrial production and exports are receiving high priority, as is the
further development of domestic energy resources. The maintenance of
international competitiveness through improved exchange rate management,
and more realistic pricing and interest rates for the domestic economy,
should help to promote more efficient resource allocation favorable to both
export growth and sound import substitution.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. About three quarters of its large external debt carries
variable interest rates, or is short term, and a change of 1% in average
annual LIBOR terms would mean a balance-of-payments gain or loss of about
US$700 million. In 1983 oil accounted for over 50% of total imports, even
though the volume of oil imports was 26% below the level of 1979. Allowing
for re-exports, a dollar per barrel change in average annual oil prices
would have a US$300 million impact on the balance of payments.
17.       Assuming that world economic conditions remain moderately
favorable, Brazil can look forward to a gradual recovery beginning this
year, and to growth reaching and possibly exceeding 5% per annum by 1987.
Such a scenario would be compatible with a falling current account deficit
through 1989. However, it does require the continued availability of net
capital inflows over the period. M&LT borrowing requirements for 1985 and
beyond will be substantial -- around US$16 billion gross but only US$5-6
billion net in 1985, and larger gross disbursements in the following 2-3
years. The total debt outstanding would remain approximately constant in
real terms over the rest of the decade. As Brazil's exports increase, the
net M&LT debt service ratio is expected to decline, from 75% in 1982 to a
projected 64% in 1989.
18.       The present emphasis on exports is therefore central to the
adjustment strategy. Brazil's industrial development through import
substitution has been relatively efficient because of its large domestic
market and diversified resource base. It has shown its capacity to compete
internationally in a wide variety of manufactured goods as well as primary
products.
19.       Nevertheless the possibility of short-term cash flow problems
cannot be ruled out. Difficulties could also arise if external
developments such as even higher real interest rates or growth in
protectionism undermine the Brazilian adjustment efforts. However, the
economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively resilient, and
policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to adjust to
changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the austerity
program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the



- 6 -
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international circumstances and to
reorient the economy toward a more efficient development path for the
remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazi;L remains creditworthy for new
borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
20.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and upgrading
and expanding health services for the poor have received much Government
attention. Increased Government efforts have also been directed to
low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved provision of water
and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these and other
programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates from the
1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and welfare
improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income gains
were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as reflected
by improved access to public services, declining infant mortality, and
increased durable consumer goods possession by households, also attest to
significant poverty reduction during the decade. Given the impact of
present economic difficulties on output and employment, however, there is a
possibility that some of these gains could be lost in the present crisis.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1984 the Bank had made 130 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$9,419.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 68 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$472 million in FY82,
and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1984
was US$4,130.6 million. Annex II contavins a summary statement of Bank
loans.
22.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bank. lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in FY83, seven
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
US$154.0 million for a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development
project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third
agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million for
an export development project, US$303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project, US$65.2 million for the third phase of the
Northwest region development program, US$222.8 million for a rural



-7
- 7 -
electrification project, US$250.6 million for a power distribution project,
US$30.5 million in supplemental financing for on-going agricultural and
rural development projects, US$20.0 million for a technician training
project, and US$40.0 million for a basic education project have so far been
approved. A loan of US$57.5 million for a second health care project will
be distributed to the Executive Directors at about the same time as those
for this project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$81 billion at the
end of 1983. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.3% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 3.5%.
24.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,007.77 million, of which US$631.15 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$376.62 million, US$298.29 million
represent loans and US$78.33 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1984 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
26.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflation. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983 are
reflected in our operations. These include working capital financing under
the third agro-industries project, financing of a higher share of project
costs of recently approved social sector projects, supplemental financing
amounting to US$30.5 million for two on-going agricultural and rural
development projects, and amending existing loans where warranted to
provide for higher Bank disbursement rates during the period covered by the
Special Action Program. Also, greater use is being made of the operation
of Project Special Accounts into which Bank funds are deposited in advance
in order to reduce the need for the Government to prefinance Bank's share
of project costs, and which allow disbursements of Bank funds to be made at
the exchange rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.
27.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on development while promoting efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been



- 8 -
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Gcvernment initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Given agriculture's large
potential contribution to export growth and import substitution,
adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's transition from
stabilization to growth. The proposed loan, which focuses attention on
strengthening the road transportation network in productive centers and
export corridors also contributes to achieving this objective.
28.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation.  Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. Further
lending will be based on appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide
incentives to producers and encourage conservation by consumers while
reducing government subsidies to the energy sector.
29.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income groups in
rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest. Loans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities, and
loans for training of technicians and for basic education are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.
30.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil and
would be a prominent feature of the proposed project. The Bank also serves
as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources. Continued lending by
the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as
a sign of confidence in Brazil's development prospects. In some sectors,
especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped
Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts from bilateral credit
agencies and private financial institutions than may otherwise have
beenprovided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982, ten co-financing
operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and signed with
private financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are rather
limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of commercial
bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the framework of
the debt rescheduling package.  Co-financing could b(ecome more important in
the near future, however, and as evidenced by the recently approved Bank
participation in a syndicated guarantee facility for the Carajas Iron Ore
Project (Loan 2196-BR), the new co-financing instruments developed by the
Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil
with better financing terms and possibly additional lending for high
priority projects.



PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
31.       The large size and difficult natural terrain of Brazil, together
with its abundant agricultural and mineral resources, have given
transportation an essential role in the economy. Development of the sector
in recent decades has accompanied the penetration of economic activity into
the interior regions of the country, from the coastal and southeast
regions. Passenger and freight traffic have grown at about 14% and 9%,
respectively, from 1975-80, compared to GDP growth of about 7% during the
same period.  Most freight traffic is carried by road (60%), rail (23%),
coastal and inland shipping (1tA%) and pipelines (3%). Passenger traffic is
principally by road (94%) with the remainder by rail and air. The major
change in the sector over the past decades has been the growth in the
importance of roads and a decline in the share of coastal and inland
shipping in freight traffic. The trunk transport network consists of a
road network exceeding 1.3 million km, a rail network of about 29,000 km,
and 38 deep-water ports.
32.       The Ministry of Transport (MT) is responsible for coordination
and development of transport modes (except civil aviation). Separate
autonomous agencies and public enterprises provide for direct
administration of the national highway system (DNER), inland and coastal
shipping (SUNAMAM), railways (RFFSA), ports (PORTOBRAS), urban transport
(EBTU), and transport planning and consulting (GEIPOT).
33.       Sector policy supports efforts to improve export performance,
promote energy efficiency, and improve services to low-income commuters in
urban areas. Export promotion would be supported by orienting investment
and maintenance to major export corridors and producing areas. Energy
efficiency would be promoted by the rationalization of transport services,
improved operation of vehicles, and replacement of petroleum derivatives
with domestic sources. Concern for low-income urban transport services
would be addressed by efforts to improve conditions in these areas. In
addition, emphasis is given to selection of projects which respond to
accumulated demand requirements and with short payback periods.
34.       Because of the needed reduction in public expenditures to support
the austerity program, large scale capital intensive investments have been
reduced. Completion of the Ferrovia do Ago railway line has been postponed
for after 1987, and new highway construction is limited to only the
Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway, supported by Loan 2062-BR. Efforts are
underway to improve the operating efficiency and finances of the rail
freight system and of the ports. Priority is assigned to road maintenance
in high traffic and export related highways, feeder road improvement to
assist agricultural production, port modernization, and suburban rail
improvement. The need to select priorities and to design limited
investment programs has highlighted the need, within the MT and modal
agencies, to improve planning and policy formulation, and for greater
attention to economic and financial criteria, rather than physical targets,
in decision making.



- 10 -
The Highway Sub-Sector
35.       DNER is reponsible for sub-sector planning for the federal
highway network, and for implementation of investment programs. Major
growth of the federal highway system took place between 1964 and 1976,with
an average increase of 18% per annum in kilometers. After 1976, the
increase declined dramatically, to only 2% per annum, partly due to a shift
in emphasis to road maintenance. About 7% of Brazil's 1.3 million km are
federal highways, 9% are state highways, and 84% are municipal roads.
About 50% of the 90,000 km of federal highways are paved, while about 29%
of the 118,000 km of state highways are paved.. Analysis of average daily
traffic (ADT) volumes indicates that scope for additional economic
investment in paving is still higlh, particularly in the South and
Southeastern road networks.
36.       Road freight transport grew considerably in the 1975-80 period,
and was accompanied by significant growth in the cargo fleet,  Of about 1.9
million commercial vehicles in Brazil in 1982, heavy trucks accounted for
13% of the fleet. Since 1971, an increasing proportion of the commercial
fleet is made up of light and very heavy vehicles. Almost 80% of trucks
used in inter-regional freight operations use diesel oil as a motor fuel,
and now account for about 50% of the total ccinsumption of diesel in
Brazil. Because of the overall demand for diesel, and the mix of fuels
produced by refineries in Brazil, diesel demand determines the level of
crude oil input and refinery output. Reduction of consumption of diesel
fuel would reduce the overall need for imports of crude oil, with a
favorable effect on the balance of payments. Domestic diesel prices net of
local distribution costs and retailers' margins are currently about 25%
over border prices. The Government's policy is to continue increasing
diesel fuel prices at a rate equa'l to or higher than gasoline in the
periodic price increases for petroleum derivatives, and, moreover, to at
least maintain the real price of dliesel fuel at its current level, until
June 1985. The Government is aware of the need and potential for
conservation and a more comprehensive strategy to promote conservation of
diesel fuel is to be prepared by June 1985, with the recommentations to be
put into effect thereafter. This plan would take into consideration the
recommendations regarding road user charges referred to in para. 37 below
(Section 3.01(d) and (e) of the Loan Agreement).
37.       A concern for the sub-sector Ls the adequacy of the resources
available for road maintenance, particularly in view of the decline in DNER
revenues since the mid-1970's.  Under the current austerity program, even
the increased importance being given to road maintenance will not be
sufficient to meet the sub-sector's physical requirements. Since the
elimination of the earmarked tax system under which DNER prospered, the
total revenues collected through road user ch,arges are not re-invested in
the sub-sector, and DNER's level of activity has declined. Some
adjustments are needed to the road user tax system to ensure that all heavy
vehicle operators are charged at least for short-run marginal costs of road
use, consistently with the stated policy for cost-recovery, and to correct
the structure of the motor-vehicle registration tax. The MT is currently
reviewing the road user tax system, and will prepare recommendations by
January 1985 in the broader context of a policy for financing of the



highway subsector at multiple levels of government (Section 4.07 of the
Loan Agreement).
The DNER 1984-87 Investment Program
38.       DNER's policy is to give highest priority to maintenance and
rehabilitation works. DNER's 1984-87 programmed expenditures (net of
transfers to states) total about US$3.3 billion (March, 1984 prices), which
is somewhat below the 1981-83 period. About US$1.8 billion or 55% is for
capital expenditures. 32% of programmed expenditures are to meet debt
A            service needs, and the remainder for current expenditures.  Of the
programmed capital expenditures, 46% are for road rehabilitation and for
routine maintenance, about 36% are for construction and paving, 11% for
bypasses and urban expressways, 6% for road safety, and 1% for other
expenditures including research. During the period, expenditures in new
construction and paving would gradually decrease, while those for road
rehabilitation would increase. Routine maintenance expenditures could
substantially increase from 1984-85, and remain constant thereafter.
Implementation of the proposed investment plan would involve an estimated
financing gap of about US$386 million, which constitutes the basis for the
Bank loan. Flexibility for main budget reallocations, without providing
the needed additional finance is limited, since available resources are
committed to the conclusion of ongoing works, or for expenditures of utmost
economic priority. Provision of the necessary finance to meet proposed
investment needs would allow for a more balanced overall program,
consistent with the federal highway network needs. In particular,
rehabilitation and strengthening allocations would increase by about 123%,
and safety by about 71%. The allocation to the various DNER activities is
reasonable in light of the prevailing overall budget constraints in
Brazil. The investment program would be periodically reviewed in
accordance with economic criteria, in line with foreseeable budget
availability.
Bank Experience in the Highway Sub-Sector
39.       Between 1968 and 1978 the Bank made six loans, totalling US$490
million, to support expansion and maintenance of the federal highway
system. Project performance audit reports have been distributed to the
Executive Directors for four of the projects.2/ The reports concluded
that the projects were successfully completed, with audit rates of return
considerably higher than appraisal estimate for roads constructed and/or
maintained. The Fifth and Sixth Highway projects (supported by Loans
1075-BR and 1557-BR, respectively) are still under implementation, and
support principally road maintenance and rehabilitation activities. Delays
in implementation, largely as a result of interruptions in the flow of
funds to executing agencies, were resolved in mid-1983, using the Bank's
Special Assistance Program, and the projects are now progressing smoothly.
Finally, the Bank supported construction of the Cuiaba-Porto Velho Highway
(Loan 2062-BR) in the context of the Northwest Region Development Program.
2/   Secretary's Memoranda M 76-89 of February 12, 1976, M 77-520 of June
21, 1977, and M 79-495 of June 29, 1979.



- 12 -
Completion of the highway is expected on sc1hedule, although the
strengthening of the Rondonia state maintenance agency is about two years
behind schedule. Institutional weaknesses in DNER, which have also been a
factor for the efficiency of DNER works, are being addressed by the
proposed project, which includes an integrated approach to planning an
improved management system for routine maintenance and planning and
broadening of staff training (paras. 46 and 47).
40.       The Bank's strategy for the sub-sector is focused on improving
the efficiency in use of resources, and supporting investment in areas
which contribute rapidly to improvement in industrial or agricultural
productivity and exports. Investment is focused on projects with a short
payback period and conservation of energy. In order to achieve these
objectives, support is also given to institutional and policy measures
directed at strengthening the planning process, developing more adequate
management procedures, and improving the operation of public enterprises
with appropriate tariff and cost-recovery policies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed Federal Highways Sector Project was prepared by the
Government with assistance from Bank staff. Negotiations for the proposed
project were held from May 14 to 18, 1984 and the Brazilian Delegation was
led by Mrs. Lourdes Marques, of the Ministry' of Planning; special
conditions are listed in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Strategy
42.       The proposed project would contribute to increased productivity
in the economy by targeting road maintenance investment in centers of key
economic importance and export corridors. Additionally, the project would
support the government's effort to def:Lne a medium-term program for diesel
conservation, including pricing policy,. Finally, the project would support
efforts to improve sub-sector investment planning and resource allocation
by assisting DNER in expenditure programming, in particular through
integrating pavement management and planning into its budget programming
procedures.
Project Components
43.       There are four main project components.  Physical works would be
achieved through highway rehabilitation and highway safety components.
Institutional objectives would be pursued through maintenance training and
highway research, pavement management, and equipment management components.
44.       Highway Rehabilitation.  DNER would rehabilitate about 9,300 km
of highways from 1984-87, at an estimated cost of US$596 million. A model
would assist in defining an optimal investment strategy, minimizing road
transport costs at a given level of budget availability. Specific
sub-projects would be selected given road condition, traffic levels and



- 13 -
their importance for transport of exports. Recommended investment levels
and timing would be consistent with the investment strategy developed
through the model, and sub-projects would be selected in accord with the
priorities of the pavement management system (see para. 47). Partly
because of the backlog of works referred to in para. 37, rates of return
for individual sub-projetcs are expected to be high. A sample of 37
sub-projects already evaluated yielded a consolidated ERR over 40%. In no
case, however, would any sub-project have an ERR below 11%.  Detailed
engineering for a further 4,000 km would also be financed under the
project. Sub-projects would be approved by the Bank prior to carrying out
detailed engineering design (Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement).
45.       Highway  _afety.  An accident evaluation program has so far
identified about 1,800 high accident locations on the federal highway
system which need to be improved. So-called "black spots" would be
evaluated individually to determine the solution to best reduce the number
and severity of accidents, and cost-benefit analysis would be carried out
to establish the priority ranking for the program. The proposed project
would finance about 78% of DNER's black spot improvement program for
1984-87, and records would be maintained to evaluate their effectiveness.
In addition, pavement marking and striping for about 25,000 km of federal
highways, vehicles and equipment (radios and radar) for traffic police, and
a public highway safety campaign would be supported by the project.
46,       Training.  The objective of the training component would be to
improve DNER's road maintenance capacity in two states, and to assist five
state highway agencies in the Northeast. The program would train about
2,900 road maintenance supervisors, equipment operators, mechanics, and
administrators. Training in maintenance management would be provided for
mid-level and senior staff. The proposed project would finance the costs
of training facilities and equipment. Disbursements against state level
training would require a supplemental agreement between DNER and the
participating DER (Section 3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
47,       Pavement Management, Equipment Management, and Highway Research.
The scope of DNER's existing pavement management system (PMS) has been
expanded, to be a more effective decision-making tool for budgetary and
investment planning. The function of the standing committee on pavement
r        management, established within DNER, has been widened to increase its
capacity to guide the implementation of the PMS. The PMS would provide
for: a periodic inventory of the pavement status of the road network;
projections of the future status through pavement performance projection
models; determining the most suitable maintenance strategy in light of
timing and cost constraints; and prepare annual and pluriannual maintenance
and new pavement programs, optimizing economic benefits and budget
conistraints. DNER would assure that the standing committee would implement
its 1984-86 work program for the PMS in accord with policy guidelines
agreed by the Bank (Section 3,09 of the Loan Agreement). The existing
system for equipment management (EMS) would be improved by first evaluating
existing practices and then formulating an improved EMS over a two-year
period. Terms of reference for the evaluation of the system have been



- 14 -
agreed by the Bank, a working group for evaluation of the EMS has been
appointed, and would begin work by October 1, 1984 to be completed by
October 1, 1986 (Section 3.02(b) of the Loan Agreement). A research
program for 1985-87 has been agreed with IPR, for research on soils and
materials, traffic and highway safety, and systems development and
equipment utilization. The terms of reference for each study would be
approved by the Bank (Section 3,01(d) of the Loan Agreement).
Project Implementation
48.       Project implementation would be the responsibility of DNER, using
its various directorates for the separate components. Maintenance and
rehabilitation would be carried out by the Highway Rehabilitation Program
Planning Directorate; the highway safety compiornent would be carried out by
the Transit Directorate; the maintenance training program would be carried
out with IPR and state secretariats; and highway research and development
of a pavement management system would be carried out by IPR, and
coordinated by the General Directorate. As has been done in previous
highway projects, DNER would maintain a project revolving account to speed
payment to contractors, with its own resources, and would make regular
monthly deposits to ensure the availability of sufficient funds for project
execution (Section 3.07 of the Loan Agreement). Selection criteria for
road groups financed under the project would be as indicated in para. 44,
based on analysis of the priority and economic returns to the road group.
Project Costs
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$449.0 million,
including contingencies and about US$76.3 milLion in local taxes and
duties. Price contingencies for foreign costs in 1984 were calculated in
US$ dollar terms at 3.5%, and for local and foreign costs 8% for 1985, and
9% for 1986 and thereafter. No price contingencies were calculated for
local expenditures in 1984 because of the Government policy of devaluing
the cruzeiro at a rate equivalent to domestic inflation without adjusting
for international inflation. The highway rehabilitation component
represents about 85% of total project costs, and estimates were based on
representative detailed designs for the types of pavement improvements
envisaged. A breakdown of the estimated cost is shown in the Loan and
Project Summary on page ii.  The proposed Bank loan of US$210 million,
including about US$0.5 million for the capitalized front-end fee, would
finance about 56% of estimated project costs excluding taxes. This would
be equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project
(US$196.7 million) plus about US$13.3 miLlion mostly for technical
assistance for maintenance training which would be essential to the success
of the state level training component. The proportion of foreign exchange
costs has been estimated, and results mostly from the direct and indirect
foreign costs of fuel, equipment, asphalt and other materials used in civil
works.



- 15 -
Procurement and Consultant Services
50.       Procurement under the project would be as follows (US$ millions):
--- US$ millions --------
Category                  ICB       LCB    Other    Total
Civil Works              323.4    66.4        3.4    393.2
Equipment                   9.0     4.5       0.3      13.8
Consultant Services         -        -       42.0     42.0
Total               332.4    70.9      45.7    449.0
Local competitive bidding, according to procedures acceptable to the Bank,
would be used for rehabilitation of about 480 km of road and civil works
related to highway safety and road maintenance training, for road sections
dispersed throughout the country. LCB would also be used to procure about
US$4.5 million of road maitenance training equipment. Civil works
(including some operating costs of vehicles and other training costs),
totalling about US$3.4 million for road maintenance training would be
carried out by force account, and equipment for research, totalling about
US$0.3 million, would be purchased by local and/or international shopping.
51.       Consultants for supervision of civil works, detailed engineering
design, highway maintenance training, research, a highway safety campaign,
and PMS and EMS would be selected using procedures acceptable to the Bank
and would be contracted at prevailing rates. Foreign experts would be
contracted by local consultant firms for the training program, and for PMS
and EMS. Aggregate consultant costs are expected to be about US$42.0
million.
Disbursements
52.       Within the overall level of cost sharing, the Bank would disburse
45% for local and 100% for foreign expenditures of the highway
rehabilitation and safety programs, 100% for the maintenance training
program, and 80% of local and 100% of foreign expenditures for consultant
services for training and highway research programs, training abroad, and
PMS and EMS. Disbursement would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure for goods and services costing less than US$20,000, and on the
basis of full documentation for those costing over US$20,000. The loan
would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1989. A disbursement period of five
years has been considered reasonable for the loan, which would finance
primarily a time-slice of DNER's overall investment program, and advance
contracting of works is already underway. This disbursement period
reflects the experience of a similar project for Latin America; however, no
available standard disbursement profile is representative of this project.
The Bank would retroactively finance up to US$8.0 million for highway
rehabilitation and associated supervision works carried out as of April 1,
1984. The Government would request the Bank to make advance payment of up
to US$15 million into a Special Account opened in the Central Bank.
Conversion from U.S. dollars to cruzeiros would be made at the exchange
rate prevailing on the date of expenditure.



- 16 -
Accounts and Audits
53,       DNER would maintain separate accounts of project expenditures,
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Copies of
the audit report would be provided to thie Bank not more than six months
after the end of DNER's financial year.  The Special Account would be
audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 4.02 and
4.03 of the Loan Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The proposed project would support DNER's 1984-87 investment
program for road maintenance and rehabilitation projects of high priority.
Economic analysis of DNER's pluriannual maintenance program, including an
evaluation of components corresponding to 85% ot total project base costs,
yields an estimated ERR above 40%. The high rate of return reflects the
economic priority of the proposed investments and the balance between
project components, emphasizing periodic and preventive maintenance
elements. Most of the quantifiable project benefits would be directly
realized by truck owners since almost 50% of the traffic on the Federal
Highway Network is accounted for by trucks. T'hese benefits, in the form of
vehicle operating cost savings, would likely be passed on to the productive
sector of the economy in view of the competitiLveness of the trucking
industry and that road transport accounts for about 60% of freight traffic
in Brazil. The project would also contribute to facilitating exports,
since most of the proposed investment would serve export corridors or
regional centers of key productive importance., In addition, some benefits
would result from road safety improvements, training, and energy
conservation.
55.       The composition and timing of DNER's program have been carefully
reviewed and are resonable, considering foreseeable budget availability and
the absorptive capacity of DNER and of the construction industry. The ERR,
based on quantifiable benefits corresponding to 85% of total project base
costs, is attractive; even under the extreme assumption of no growth in
benefits during project life, the estimated ERR is still above 20%.
However, one risk to the Sector Project is that continuing economic
difficulties could lead to further restrictions in the highway investment
budget, delaying disbursements and the complel:ion of the overall investment
program. Such risk would be minimized by ensuring, during project
execution, an adequate monitoring of the implementation of the investment
plan, and that required budget allocations would be forecast in a timely
manner and included in the three-year rolling budget program for the public
sector.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 17 -
57.       A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that DNER had
made a first deposit of US$6.0 million equivalent into the Project
Revolving Account to be maintained for purposes of the project (para. 48).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 30, 1984
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                                        Page 1 oF 5
BRAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /8
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
/b         ~~~RECEFT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
196G1-7     1970/=  ESTIMAT58/-      LAT. AMFRICA & CARIB             E  NRCOPE
AREA (TNOUSAND SQ. DM)
TOTAL                                8512.0      8512.0       8512.0
AGRICULTURAL                         1621.3      1981.2       2:09.5
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     330.0        610.0      2:20.0             2088.2                      2 53.,6
ENEROt CONSUCPr IOY PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        385.0       577.0       1102.0             1407.6                      1580.8
LPOPULATION AIRD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   72594.0       95847.0    120507.0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          46.1         55.9        68.2               65.9                        47.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                               176.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                 299.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           8.5        11.3         13.9               35.6                        82.0
pER SQ. XM. AGRI. LAND               44.8        48.4         53.6               93.2                       157.2
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            43.6        42.7         41.1               40.1                        31.9
15-64 YRS                            53.8        54.3         55.4               55.8                        60.9
65 AND ABOVE                          2.6         3.1          3.5                4.1                         7.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 3.1         2.8          2.1                2.3                         1.6
URBAN                                 5.5         4.7          3.9                3.7                         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           42.7        35.0         30.5               31.5                        25.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           12.9        10,3          8.2                8.1                         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0         2.4          1.9                2.0                         1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..       111.0        203.6/c
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WSION)             ..           .
FOOD AIRD  URITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          89.0       102.0        128.0              113.0                       108.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)        106.0       104.0        109.0              111.3                       129.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             64.0        62.0         61.0               67.9                        92.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           35.0        34.0         35.0/d             34.1                        34.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DRATH RATE            19.4        12.5          1.9                5.3                        10.4
H.ALT8
1IFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          54.7         58.9        63.6                64.6                       67.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         118.2        98.6         75.4               62.6                        71.4
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..         55.0        77.1/e             64.8
URBAN                                  ..        78.0         8s.87;i            77.8
RURAL                                  ..        28.0         56.87T             44.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  . .        58.0        64.8/e             54.6
URBAN                                  ..        85.0         83.77T             69.8
RURAL                                  * ,       24.0         31.177e            29.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2670.0       2130.0       1700.0/f           1776.0                      1094.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              2810.0      1120.0        820.o7f           1012.2                       762.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               310.0       270.0        250.O/e            477.0                       334.0
URBAN                               260.0       320.0           ..              667.5                       216.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..           ..            1921.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         18.4          ,.               27.2                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.1          4.8         489/e
URBAN                                  ..         4.6          4.77..
RURAL                                  ..         5.2          5. 37e*
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..         1.1
URBAN                                  ..         1.0           ..
RURAL                                  ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECT. (X OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                38.7        47.6         67.4
URBAN                                  ..        75.6         88.5                  .
RURAL                                              8.4        20.6



- 19 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
BRAZIL                   - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIIEET
BRAZIL                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) Ja
MOST                        (MOST RLCENT ESTIffATE) /b
RECGNT             MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960/b       1970-  ESTIMATE-        LAT. AMERICA & CARIB              EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED) CNROLLMENNr RATIOS
PKSLMARY:   tOTAL                     95.0         84.0         93.0/g            105.0                        102.2
MALE                      97.0         84.U         93.0/g             106.3                       107.2
FEMALE                    93.0         84.0         93.O7:             103.b                        97.9
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      11.0         26.0         32.O{/,,h           40.0                        56.5
MALE                      11.0         26.0         29.0/g h            38.6                        63.4
FEMALE                    10.0         27.0         33.07W"W            41.2                        48.9
VOCATIONAL (0 OF SECONDARY)             18.t         16.7         59.21g,h            34.0                        22.4
PFPIL-fEACdER RATIO
PRIMARY                               33.0         28.0         26.0               30.7                         24.7
f                          SECONDARY                             13.o          13.0         14.0/h             16.7                         22.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                 61.0         6b.2         76.U                79.5                        69.7
CONSU1EPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              7.6         16.6         50.1                45.6                        52.9
RADILO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           65.4        108.4        169.3               228.2                       165.5
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               16.5         44.3        122.7               108.3                       124.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                39.1         35.6         44.6/h              64.1                        96.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          4.4          2.0          1.9 /h              2.9                         2.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            23326.0      30411.0      35254.0
F.'EALE (PERCENT)                     17.2         20.1         28.5               24.8                         34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 51.9         45.6         29.9                31.3                        40.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    14.8         18.3         24.4               23.9                         23.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.1         31.7         29.3                31.3                        42.0
MALE                                  52.7         50.3         50.9                49.8                        55.2
FEMALE                                11.2         12.8         14.1                14.8                        29.1
ECONOMIG DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.4          1.5                 1.4                         0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGCHEST 5'. OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
CIGHEST 206 OF HOUSEHOLDS             60.0         63.5         62.0/c*
LOWEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS               3.8          3.2          2.8/c
LOWEST 40'! OF dOUSEUOLDS             10.8          9.0          9.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..              289.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        150.0/c            184.5
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOM4E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        465.0/d             519.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..        332.07W             372.1                       409.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (A)
A                          URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
hNOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974; /g Beginning 1973 primary and secondary education cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17
instead of 7-10 and 11-17 in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data;
/ 1978.
May 1983



-20-                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
Not..,  A1 thogh oh. 4.00or  d-an  fro  oouoo Stor.ly ud.d tCh. a   ohrteiegdrltbe,I   hul   lob   0.  th.,thOby a,   - nt, hetooor,ogtai -ly
coporoblt  Wo.. of cfos  ook of staeardiead  dofoittono  sodooooopnt usd by Ottterot tocotnia  to oolI.  lnf           dbo .dot h. de.t.t. a, o-othh1l....us.f.l t
dossnib. OrerIf .agoitud., 10d10.t5  t,.sd., and OONutfi,  5001  OJ-  diffnrsooes  bt...O  oan  it
11.  roorto.jrup.toetI  th   s..  outry froup of th. subject oouotry sd 12) S 0 . oot:nY 1100  01501 amehat high-, on-nes  loom. tho   Che  -Cutry goop of Ch.
Ioje   oor   tottfr'ohlot                                 C l  ot-tt" 500.0 04.0. "Mfiddit Intone. 00.00, Aoles Add 0W141. to-t  Id oh..o  ban.,.,  of  -tooe           -aO          tol_ra
offuobt Is..   IN th.  9t1snagoup dect. te ansNo5as SC- poPulation  oightod  .ith-sto ta. Nor Iohindicatored  00   oryotnsj Cy of th.    t~o,ors  in 
Stoaroh.ed., in rel htiSt                     . nro    fo .    Ch.   IfarOtr to   A=oChtrOho . oly  useful. In  SoCporio  ...  010.LL ofo . Iroieora    _te II-.5  l.i                   .b. outyo
.....louon A.9..)iO)nonorhto.    PoPu1letot dirided by  -ob-r If pot~
- Tnitrosot   oorto    edea.4ilodetr;16,bn6ttbiilftf'o    m Ldco   sco  .o SC _n....ity 1.0..1.
(iflo ted 111 W .0S.                                                                                                      %,:- PupoLti:ntt                      dd4000   byouonopnoct
04duirl-Zeteots of ogr-Itu orl  c0  ue   C_aporaril7 or po.aoaOtip                                  0010 014 fol,             t geaCetosos,P:oSiataC n_ra., p1-tC CoI nuroa  ldd
for croft, po.ture. 'nrCo 004 hIsohot aonId.  I; 00 lIr fallooI  191011                             -or'isngo iloi
'1170 ood 1900 dat..                                                                                   .....  .(t. tCl.obt.04  ual-Ppuaio    ct.1,
000 liiCA 0lT6A Us   -.G '90P.r  .pit.  watistsa  St  -u-et surht pos,aeafL. inpbblt .0d prinoce. OSOArOl an,I.:d opeoieli.d  hospital .0d
In ru iC yj.'i.            L.oero  athed .t World Sak colas 1979-fl hoste;                               haftbii   aioo ao    bopto.  or. sttblsfdh,o-  psrmanenly  t.ffed
101., hOd0, ao,  1911 dola.                                                                                  by St1 Lc.,otpyf.c.    t.t.bLiah n.on   pototdi.g  pnLnir.ily sontndW
1400  0000Pt0 CO N"  ob l  CAPITA - bO.--I tparo.tO  tonedptiot If    - iNdeltoll   _teesntpneetiy ao.if.d bY R Phy.lobon  (hot by S edI.nl
P',-,,  " 5fl03   10001'endtII1Lgtin, p.trols,, natuo .        ee 004.ad  hyd,o-,  -oo...                    aoslst:enl t  ura      d.1t.,  St00.)   hiob   ffer ia-ooint .-         Od   ton00d
104 100   970,  .Ad lOf0 dtn.~                                                                              .rh.. hoep' tae   nlu d. OHIO             "   ..ici .    CILr l bpitale. and rural
hoepiroie, local or ru.e   Mopti              0,0 d .0400   and  _atarnty Centers
.?Or10000  dom   010.sOlOO                                                                                       pocA.iaae     oeu SCear  1.ludad Noly under titi.l
toC..lobOin  0000   ICcosod. t- A. of Jot,ly 1  1960,  971, and 1001                                    fneeir Hle'   eltal d  - TtL  obr fodetettn   t  00 I dtohr
01010fouCttn(onot f  10.1-)  0101 f onbo   0010.1 Popuittlon;
0Trtnt41idto.o   ra IrIar Say  ffen   oePar..billty of  .0.                                     H01USI01
yii3ffi~~i7jWtiVjj10X10o0    Ourrono population  0101.0 Clone art    ..ad on I18 b       n  thoir Cain  .el.  0,i  bCorder  or- odNar, Oy or na            t he tOluded Lo
~7t6ikT~8fljjTd1010FiS andSo  0    .A          ant.Iy ad  ar Ilicy                                 the h.-.h.1d  f,,r sl t tetLo   p-rposeo,
:tsa.  pnoj.ntto  Par..eot..e for                   ...o.ty    t . loprta. ofhbEs                    Ao!!rIs,  o.mbr of            Sdenopr roo  - Cti.uhn,adrure   enrags ousbe
1o1    os,1Lif.             At.occyc  birth LootC Ingsloh                                           ...r. oto  pro. P., COe  dn t11 uran  on  rra  onuio    COoOti 1
oupin, in.uaa  lyal  Ond Naeole lif.   p.cny scftllga   104.1 -ij     sPson1iwy. Inllnseoue   0-ront  tordcure-  an
10000,  0000 pdoosoiort.,n  -ttrtlity rune alt  hoot h..s 10001.                                  -ClttpiS4 ?pano
P-eOnd  duwltna  in 0.10 ulityt - oodig toC tC..s l.avl and p.a  foolly                               MoOes  to  91-p-;trloitn  (1srost of drelltnas  -  toa.  urho, 0b04 rudril -
p1401,  poor.aI         PA 00h   lutty ta  Mbnaegs   n St O...taote                                   0000.00111,,   dosliloa.  IteL o  ripIt   linimi  quarter  as P.....ooaa
sonatoottoo  of "Iuoiaty and ferniltn   CreIfrpoetinproo                                                f toa,uban,, .04rua   eL 1100 S. roeude t.y,
abCs  tha% 01 101 roO  to eqoo. toChe death  r.tC, tIld olo .tho           SR                      t11100TION
anruntol00  rno,,I   tonOdoon.T105  4thi       toododh   onl4.y oftsr f.1irnita  rtee.             7j ,r      d Iin.n . II,,  OAtlle
ddlttth. roloso4  loos  ofuto ten  reprdu   ton rat                 ,                                          r.n                ad f ...te  - Or0.. tt l, alt tot  issl
-tnh anooio         f oneO    nOteos      Itlf eocl.Th' acotonony                                         0o hIntfll t        I    .g. 0C Lt1. ptlaa p  ...o  0a F.     Ot4n f ...pon,tioo
Olyultiot.doa405 s Oionod  o  h  host. cf lhlt projanoed CNOaatro,-                             prtaary aho -aepp Laon                      I omL  Pnluo   ohitre   aged h-Il
do  nso   hopptotio L th Ob  yer 1000, anW    Sort  o    tln    f                              Ycara hot ad)otod toy 11dl               In'Oo   lgh' ofptor    dctin    o
forliltty             .PI t   r .....en   leoSi.                                                          ICounrC iothdodto     _dc tilot ...rcan o.. t. no....d lOl  .C-t-
_ju  o ttolr   000          10     - erahbd - 71h. year obro snanu...ry                                     ai           C.ao    PupLs  Sra b.1,% I rbcoa  th. ofIcIal .01hd01  It.,
APMpttc L      100 ott "l  b0 OsC...                                                                     daodr   ool-tta,el   n   sae                        - cpto4od  stboo; .....dar
toileX o.,;I Id, (00,  nd  180 dro.pupI.                                                 M.nl     of I  no 17 yaae of age; eorssooenswore.er
00000. on. 0.tlrultuttLend  - Cuoptodn   ho t..      n f agrd1toltol1.00 L-ona-olly   II;,.do2C7l                                    y
onlY; 1960, 1970  -od 1bO0 data.                                                                     IoOioa       nrls0jfo19yoo                   oOa     - Vooatio...l ina,tltloC
Iontnosltn,oors  000.0)     Childoon  1-10yors        , oeo-og       t                      ol                                           plg-',34iid~7t0;i~00..0hi.h 00~05  od-. d
hnyili~,or rotre(hb   ear  004urer  00  a OlndOdt  o   .1-year                                  sotly or IS 4epuebo-ta  ci oncood ty lo-ltuint
polno;1960, 1970, 004 1901 date,                                                                                    t 101-0.00 .10  tr    ada   dr-Tonal  tlud.-l  -nollad In
P00000100 trooth Ca,. Iparoto I.-tota   - A4.41I Z-eohrueofC tot1 od-                             prie_y S0          nd.,ylIooe1odietd.dWy           ib.,.a  It...aobsr   in tha  oe
Fea   P.yu.to).  foe   950-60, 1960-70, tod 1970-81.                                                       ...tp.ndti.lnea
!a.o1otitn Onlo,th 0010 (parootl     ro   - Mtnue  8rooiO  ret, aIf urbA                                  AtluCltt         rcyp    r      l L.itsraC ioddlo           1.O   Co Otad and writ.) 
pOelCOt   o   oO-I. L         S010   oO  1070-81.                                               S p-rcat.g.t ud0t,6l IduF l        p,   t o  0.4. 15 fears  .01000
Coa  itmbu te                   dd    m-  .1 lid. bitrht  900- thoo-d ot  id-
p.0rplt0~ 1960, 1070,       M"'141  a.                                                       090f14
Wr .t lnh  Mt.o (-o  thooaaod I     40 I0 dnn    P., 11004000  of .10-ye..,eos   .0ipL1ofof0ol9tr       ae  gr  oaotr.    o
pvlto;1910, 19710, -tO  1981 att.lreoigls   hnsgtpro.   old.oblne     ere   n
aof-OoroeS.                    r of da-fhtsrIa-oo.a              bil   hoa  tn                 lli-rY   -hio let
hon6or63ri~indutIoo   eLnd  if S0.ayreo.proa-t af-oofi                                            .41  Rso0i.0r...(Pfr th,   Id po~l93tlo          - 611 type    fro.vf    o  r.di.
forlleoit           --la;utily fto-y..r.uergssoddnlg  1, 1960, 1970, and                                  bro tosn  tc goR_       ly l                 -d0100     of Popttin   seudsn
I ,doontad I L....er   it             -doota  0   I0  aa 1,he  rt atin  ofrdio
Olconno-ucueteos . bonol I thousaOd; - 000.01   ,ho   ofaopouet oi   fst,dt   o    050Yea..  toY not ba oPtpabsl. etne  e-s
P0.n   -.                                                                                                TVnio      a I   ooon   o  ate   oo...aontC    f  001  IVarl   uh to  1hotn  TVolt o   -.It ... fes   b011 . d0 . t4'1   C.o
rornod on-n  in 00000 f.Oe-p.                                                                      1o,,o~nR S       Cdc IuO   _a teandloJadol-1100   ho.                      oa
0101  tl>01701ON                                                                                          rntXu,ln0  "dolly  onrnltfren roy,u"    fiftoe    No0pantdlool
""iThZ0  rood  rudoo lon jonCoeot. I 1969-11-l00) - nd,on 0f pO  -oyln                               ;1uhiolobOn-  40011PrIn:olyn   roodo    e.u    50. 1   sesdaa
ennuI  loogont (on et no I feud  nltfcutt tnt.   P-od-ti   ... enldesseo   0                  10 be "daily"tOI opf      Isra    le.s  fou .T',seo
_.ol  nntl_oCn    .. 0toS. P-oduoao P000 otights;  19011-h, 1910, 004  100:
yar- Cent. tupl         I0'ltlt  19 'l11ontr r*urtot!              -Otptdfo                             '"'bEfl"USo  tTd.d-Ooelall   0 Ios,erso                                   . oludiog oreSd
onryo-        olrto  otfndappiaenialat   ou9y   e   api    .o"hosoo s,atudooto, eOn., ofr
day.  &o±il.bio  e.,ypl,.te. lors    oo             tic   r  ,u o, ImPorts  etpp.to    filae.Oati oa1   a t....   C-otOtet toe Oon
iuoztileeuad  to fond Or-'oealo, and Ina..ee  10 dLtten  butoo-                                         vaoorOu                ... tal  lO1bdO to... at.P...eose of taIt,  lefbo  forot.
-oun1n .ea .."-t.od by ?A0 baaOd .n phytIoloFil.l needs   n   cra                                    forceb.                              .In- farsiog .for.tar,   hunth 108 and
an'i lon,td1alb to.ltnnOoninn- nlltonoon to ,fnyo th,tihn tapcnno f 001.1 lhnb if.   1000, 1070  -d  1961 4d01..
oa   0    ood obutLon  of Pplain,ad ti1l-inS  10 Pereo   oreaC                                   I,dut.      orcn       ao   ot   do aiin,           onnrto,   auourgI
It  Ioahl   lens1; 196t165, 1970 cod 1900 data.                                                              Soaetl  o,oO0edoaS   ntna    fCnotho 00.194,
la   onto  ud   of ortIn  aoa     dayl     ...r.oei    _t_lro   ofPer nopins                          1970 a-d Id81 data..          dI    9
I  lOo_  o..  f 010 R000 of elec.  PtIt.00  per- da yTdn-d0 .of01100                                      ......ta.. of C.otnel   1.ml  00d f a..le poplotiwo1  of el  Is.  05netney
0-Itt Pruon   foot   0ns                 oudh   ntl0000                 hs                                 1110  1070. and 1981 dat. C.-        o orS I    a   n110spritpoinn  s
0100000 M. o  lIe    ha   oaso   1  0    of'tollyu tIo en .3.                    osre  o  in   9-o  onrotu    o                                       COh    P.pLa -o,ad long  LIe    oed
otabu   0010   t  nI                                              VWn  o   00401,00000b   O  in thn   fto  Wtitul StO 00fo01001a ot
Th ird     Ptold L  Sod      -ry   191M." 197  and  1000 data.-                                         Sco9  q;o0       tnyp           - Rd010 of  tp,p,attnudnr  15 to  65 .od 00cr  10
00It   cs1001   uOoto  Olo   0   00 -                      pret_i   ...... of f004                           theounl  .Ab!f" i~
0.100   0.  nOal   04pS se    n  ras  0  ty   19b1-hI.  19710 and 1917
010,110dor  1-4~) 00010hat PC.r Ohuend                - dnu l Othn pt 100-d0 10                          "'ct.o   oot   on I.....                  in ota  004 kind) - R-ielod by rcss 
age  nwo  I-4 y-.r, tu ehls   to.  thi  tos dro; fo   oodOlpn                                           rrotro00   O   100,poaO2  p....oO, end yo-e-  40 psOlaO  of
nOnt .tda. 0001010  from  lIfe  tohiso; 1960, 1970 004  1901 4d0.C.00.015
OOAI.fl                                                                                         PilitlO_140000SC.  M.I   b CR011-11 h    .i..h            -i
at i0t0,,1100 . 17  sod   081 hca                                                                    .0`1.10  h       S lOeo,rtao   od -b s  -nauderab 1         teu- ion.
Your ot o8e PCr tkoeod10   00h.   00,17000191S  0000.                                                                          Lt0-0-fonn>1110  1-01 is  thAt Los   onl0.00oih0  110
doCta 01 loi  Wate  Clor-ro   of pouaio       001   ro,00rru                                                  urotnll   obo               tt Plc. e.otilno-odr.drsneiOw
roco  Irlylinuo    noSoW.fasrto   en -unI.rud but                                                   fo.atL.0  oolenvoi  00.1.011S   a  cocl-dho   0   ua
onoonnooioo Ird os rn sunb an ohot   Ir    ptlee   hr lo, ofItrr-iyoUga .1 dan,-dIf,:  d           Ru-l   eutw  yP_ro   1004Y           la_      Ia one-Ophid ofeerg   fe  eplto
0000It    t  )oepr.ncn    0  100no    nl,nploit. 0"I 0000    ono   1010tunr.bon101Isdr_e nath    ua
~~niaotrre0publoc  feunloin  or atandpuet IwuotrO  000 0000 ~~thon  20   rnr             10-1 wIthad te: for 011010, ..oot 01 linino  toL.                 005
noobont of nbe  ocoenoid  do we thone       ...5by,n a lynylIt ...  por  oftS                                             -      II               -I--2
thedY In ftuniog th. foelly'. Itoo            ne de
SECwol  t     PilltOo o..  10010t  nnsp   ...... p dltios   tnot    lwu
tOy l,-lodo  h h.    totIo      -od   apul  0111 00 AIh_o            nctoh f                                                                       Eunein und S,,nio1 DIta Dlilo-
1-.,0 eoohaed ot--er t hfooter--b-r. ly.tne. or th  ups  ft pit                                                                              Onon_ic 6001 bun  ood yowJ.cti-n  Inpartn-
noilonn   -00 t.iol-  ilotuoletiot                                                                                                                                 Yo  9100



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC ANDICATORS
Population         120.5 million (1981)
GNP Per Capita:  USS2,2'0 (1981)
Indicator                                      Amount                         Average Annual Increase (Z)                      Share of .;DP at Market Prices (X)
(Million US$ Current)                    (at Constant 1970 Prices)                              (a  Current Prices)
1983 °/                 1965-70     1970-75      1975-80      1981-86              1970        1975        1983 bf
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                               330,500                    7.7        10.6          6.9          1.0             100.0        100.0        100.0
Agriculture                                            45,610                    1.9         5.7          4.7          2.8              10.2         10.9         13.8
Industry                                              104,770                   9.2         11.6          7.6        -2.0               35.8         37.2        31.7
Services                                              180,120                   8.0         10.7          6.8          2.1              54.0         51.9        54.5
Consumption                                             264,730                    7.7         9.8          5.7          0.5              77.8         76.6         80.1
Gross Investment                                         58,830                    9.4        14.6          5.2          0.1              22.7         21.3         17.8
Exports of Goods and NFS                                 23,730                    8.2         11.2         7.3          4.3               6.7          7.5          7.2
Imports of Goods and NFS                                 19,600                   14.5        17.2          2.8         -3.9               7.2         11.4          5.9
Gross Doms-tic Savings                                   48,580                    7.9         12.9         6.1          1.8              22.2         23.4         14.7
Amount                     Average Annual Increase (Z)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(Million IS$ Current)                (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current prices)
1983                   1970-75          1973-80       1981-86                   1970          1975         1983
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                     21,899                  11.1              7.7              2.8                    100.0         100.0        100.0
Primary c1 10,603                                                             8.3               1.1              0.8                     76.7          62.7         48.4
Manufactures d/                                       11,296                 28.2              18.2              5.6                     22.i          34.8         51.6
Merchandise Imports                                     15,429                 14.8              -3.3              1.2                    100..1        100.0        100.0
Food (cereals)                                           968                 -6.7             17.5               8.8                      4.5           3.0          6.3
Petroleoe                                              8,179                  7.6              4.3            -11.0                      11.2          25.4         53.0
Machinery and Equipment e/                             2,505                 15.2             -7.5               2.0                     36.2          32.2         16.2
Other                                                  3,777                 28.4             -1.9               4.3                     48.1          39.4         24.5
1975            1976            1977            1978            1979            1980           1981          1982         1983
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                    305.1           444.3           632.7           892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6       5,696.8      11,108.8    28,272.4
Exchange Rate (CrS/USO)                        8.1            10.6            14.1            18.1             26.9            52.7          93.1        180.0         577.1
Export Price Index (1970 = 100)              176.0           192.0           226.0           228.0           266.0            290.0        252.0         220.0           n.a
Import Price Index (1970 = 100)              242.0           255.0           286.0           317.0           389.0           431.0         474.0         522.0           n.n
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = 100)             72.0            75.0            79.0            72.0             68.0            67.0          53.0         42.0           n.a
An % of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975              1979              1980 f/        1981 I/  1982 S/
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                         16.6             19.8              20.8               20.1           18.9      21.2
Current Expenditure                                                                     14.4             15.8              17.6               19.8           20.2      25.4
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                               2.2              4.0               3.2                0.3           -1.4      -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                      2.6              3.8               3.7                4.1            3.5       3.4
s   Financing (Net)                                                                     0.4              -0.2               0.5                3.9            4.9       7.6
1965-70            1970-75             1976-80                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                                                                    7.7                10.7                 6.6                    0.9
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (X)                                                         4.6                 7.7                 4.0                   -1.6
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (X)                                                      7.2                8.7                 6.8
ICOR                                                                                   2.9                 2.2                 4.3                   18.3
Marginal Savings Rate fl                                                              20.5                27.9                 7.8                    0.5
Import Elasticity   f/                                                                 2.2                 1.6               -0.1                    -4.5
al   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
b/   Estimate.
cl   Includes coffee (beans and soluble), other agricultural products, and minerals.
d/   Includes manufactured and semi-processed products.
e/   Includes transportation materials.
f/   The 1981-86 projections are calculated using the least squares method.
1980-1982 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and some minor government funds, as well as transfers to the
federal enterprises.
Source: Conjuotura Economics, FGV; Banco Central do Brazil; Brazil Standard Model (World Bank).                                                                 May 30, 1984



-22 -
BALANCE 081 PA899T987. 82T989A0  CAJP2TAL AD91  DEST                                                                                         I9E
(cillin  0S9  t   - -ran  Pei-)                                                                                                     P.g. 5 Of 3
Pn pa1t       12.    JlIO        91
ACTUAL.                                                            P64301780 kj
1975          1976          3897 7         1978          1979           (980           1981               1982        1983 h/          1984          1985           19866
Na  apor-  of good. and  -ari-c                              -6,702        -6,016.        -4,037         -6,086       -10,039       -12,564        -11,173            -14,850         -6,278        -3,600         -5,300       -5,034
Enporna  of Anode ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~I86,70                  10,128        12,~120        12,:659       11,248        20,132         23,293             20,164         21,899        25,200         28,860       32,755
Ol2r-     f  od12,210                                                     -12,383       -12,032         1   683      '18,084        -22,955         22,080            -19,397       -15 .429       -16,194       -18, 02       '20,887
Nen f...o .oo".                                                ,73          -218911       -2.339        -32517         -481,1        -9,91          -9,549)           -12,409        -(004         -11.602)    -12 ,49          3,43,
of1 ohih ,nineenPapacon,))                               114 8)        _-1,10         (2, 3         (-2,696)       (-4,3935       -6()          (-9,19)           (-1,39         ( ,33         (-0,83)    (-11,17    (- 30
Ndt  __nfact-r.-i...e                                        -1,429        -1,574         -1(378        -1,805         -2,378        -3,120         -2,937             -3,200         -2,800        -2,804         -3,2(9       -3,338
N.,tr--fee   62                                                                     1             -            71             16            (6            187                   -                            --
U--tnna    Itnbalan-                                           -8,7 00        -6,017        -4,000         -8,013       -10,021        -12,39        -(0,976             -14,850        -6,2)8         -3,600        -5,!)00      -,,03'.
0 Iract prlcane  (,noeanaen3  0)                  8~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~90  5  1           ,0            1,491         (92.            ,6                   91            660           690            700          000
861,7 Inane  loan)               4,830         3,542          5,650        10,018          5,297         3,473.0       9,493 2)            8 848         3,n73          7,628         8,354         6,67244  1:47  7,628 1,15,4
Oiaburaenna                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~     ~~~(6,9862)  (,60  (923)  (5,164)  (11,8)  ((0,08)  1,39)          (3,"777       (14.6656)      (16,500)      (15,841)   (120,'61)
A-i-nla     - on-23)                                                      (-,1)          (363           (-,4)         (-6,451)       (-6,610 .01   (7 ,8S6            (-7.3031        -.19)        (-8,972)    (-10.097)   (-II .389)
Sraelne,   ....a aNodbn190                                                    -48           -267           -357          -610            4.16         -702                -(96          -440           -600          -830       -1,400
Onloarneponl 0.5.. 0)                                         16           93         -1I2             ' -405          6)6         4,0631        1,3(3               4,011             6           -106            4        
Chanod inreearnea  )(-i .....e.(e/950                                     -1,192           -630         -4,262         3,2.3          3,32..         -687               4,000              0       -0,000           -0553        -771
I,O--oa    -l na   ...re   f/                                      8,042         8,344          7,236        (1,893          9,699         6,9131         7,600              5,600          3,600         5,600          6,150        6,924
Ren--vac   -onha  of iap-r   0)                                         4             6,3            7.2          10.3            6.4           (1.6           4.1                2,2            2.9           4,1            n.C          4,0
1975          1976           1977          1987           1978          19890          1981               1982
External Debn
oT-I M41,T nebn one:andI.g a-d di.bnr-d                         23,299        28,483        34,601         46,936         51,342        54.865        60, 612             70.600
OnbIen and pobllly  n-r--ed                                  13,706         17,348        21,595        30,294         33,408         39,260        43,620             07,598
Offlonel . enr_                                            3,939          4,403         4,717          5,401         5,969             ,40        7,244               8,176
0880                                                    (1,93)         (21,207       (1,41)         (,1,602)      (1,927)        (2,068)       (2,3(9)             (2,724)
"Other                                                    (086)         (32             3304)        (3,7991        (8,062)       (4,347)       (4,923)             (3:,454)
Prtvoneaonrrao                               8,7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9~47  (2,:9(9  16,679  23,883        20,5939        31,4           36,5 76            38,41
Pt noane ton~~~~~~~~~~9nor00Oeed              8~~~~~~,592  1110            300           6,2           (584          16,65           979 4,(
(2,,0(eboreed  debn  (poblnt orOp)              ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~3,979  8,620  9,1      023           1,4             401          14,995             (5087
Oonn0 ornac Oia8oree~~~~n  on  l841 - Coa                 ,831         8,160         3,262         15,166        11,729         (0,085        (5,05892,5
Pobli, a-d poblidly gnaranned                                 3,78           4,9215        5,402         10,1160        9,132          6,89          8,997               7,91
Ofloale,Po   ordin                                            428            405            6              9            448            47              26                670
1380                                                         250            373           2991          175            302           3431           597                603
0111,                                     ~~~~~~~~~~2,9991  4,2333       4,8962        9,2(6          6,2187        7,8982         8,3690             6,241166
Pr noa-   -n-goatn-ed                                        3,194         3,238          3,961          5,049         2,376         3,192          6,0)614,4
Debt Service
Total deearlc   a.,n                                           4,193          4,322         5,640          9,230        11,147         1~3,168)      14,896              (6,829
1-nareet                           (1,) (677)                             (1,423)        (1.851)       (2,457)        (3,550        (54(2)         (7,778)            (9,296
Payonaea  5 nI  Oxpor   08 0875                                    00.0           39.           42,3           38.6          68.9           60.0          06.)                75,
Pay,aon   %,o        NOt                                            2.9            2.6           3.0            3.7           4.3            48            5.4                 5.3'
Anete8  It Caentren   a  nblin d.bt (2) 2/                             9.            7,6            8.3           9.9           11.2          12.3           (3.2               13.3
0(36o81'l... cotre ..                                               7.7            7,89          8.0            7.5           3.3            8.            9.8                 -
UeA,   aoerioo;rt,oeatedbt                                             9,0          ((.:3          100           3,              15            89             9,                  .0
.floaa   -re:a                                               19.            (8.           16,1I         14.5           (.0            12.9          13,-
70           9,3           8)             8.3          11.0            a,7            8 .9-
I36  300/Tona                                                       4.             4,:3          4,             3.            0.             3.            3.6                 3,:9
I980 di.b.- -ionan-ea   groa. di.b-r-aen   (21                      3.3            2.1           3.1            1.            (.6            3.4           2.                  4,
0360D d.bn   evn(oa  debC  seri.e  (Z)                              2.5            3,2           3.7            2.7            .2            2,1           2.2                 2,5
Debt Strncture                                                                         tn nh. ad of ic-a6P  3992
tta     t,Itt-rnaPC ,  of 84123 debt  --tatedio9
M.norintnan  doe nhnt hi      poy...                                                             59
t8n,nitn   dt  401  10 Yeat                                                             95
hpri1 17, 19894
1-1 cld.. lnntr-   -n  chore  -ar   -d 94L0  nae
0/  tO   t ....fe-   f-nr 19891 ar  ni-ooded Inte        --f-rt-reno
d) In-ludee papato  -e-rer   a,d error  end   sana
.-nnlndnng do11ar  -I-i-no  adju- -n   and  -nntieninn nf d-tnic  SnId.
1-1.c2ditg gold .nd dtIlar  -cl-aint adj.t.tnn     th-gh9 199),
i/ P.blio debt ntis.
117  oldee IMF and  h.,rt-taea bnr-oot.t1
A/ ...all  -ad-rd ande1 (W-rld B.60, 
Source;  9.-0  C-ton-  d.n  ...61 i       nnrna  Dabt D-, 1978-82 (ff031  IMP.



ANNEX II
- 23 -                            Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                    Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
Sixty-two lnans fully disbursed                                       2,376.7
1008     1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do            Power                    81.0        1.2
Sao Francisco - CHESF
1075     1975  Brazil                            Roads                   110.0        8.3
1151     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                  95.0         2.4
1152     1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                   60.0       13.9
1171     1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways                75.0         0.2
1195     1976  Brazil                            Rural Development        12.0        4.0
1207     1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            55.0         3.0
1317     1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry            83.0       29.2
1362     1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development       42.0         4.1
1406     1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer              52.0          .5
1411     1977  Fertilizantes Vale do Rio         Fertilizer              55.0         1.2
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452     1977  Brazil                            Education               32.0        14.8
1488     1977  Brazil                            Rural Development        11.0        3.7
1525     1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage               110.0        58.3
1537     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development        24.0       16.5
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   130.0       26.7
1557     1978  Brazil                            Roads                  114.0        41.8
1562     1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals          85.0         1.1
1563     1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport         88.0         4.4
1568     1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension       100.0        40.8
1589     1978  Brazil                            Rural Development       37.0        21.0
1654     1979  Banco Nacional da Rabitacao       Sites and Services      93.0        20.5
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water and Sewerage    100.0         27.3
1714     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development       26.0        19.1
1720     1979  Brazil                            Urban Development        70.0       33.5
1721     1979  COPEL                             Power                   109.0       38.4
1728     1979  Brazil                            Rural Development       40.0        27.2
1729     1979  Brazil                            Irrigation               28.0       10.9
1730     1979  Brazil                            Roads                   110.0       47.8
1822     1980  Brazil/BNDE                       Pollution Control       58.0        57.0
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            130.0       40.7
1824     1980  CEEE                              Power                  114.0        81.5
1839     1980  Brazil                            Urban Transport        159.0       126.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply           139.0        48.1
1867     1980  Brazil                            Education               32.0        24.0
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development       63.0        57.6
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                         Power                  125.0        96.3
1924     1981  Brazil                            Rural Development       56.0        36.3
1939     1981  ELETROBRAS                        Power                    54.0       47.0



- 24-                             ANNEXII
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMNT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                      urpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
1965     1981  EBTU                              Urban Transport          90.0       68.8
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            180.0      123.9
1989     1981  Brazil                            Alcohol Development   250.0        179.4
2015     1981  Brazil                            Agriculture              29.0       22.3
2016     1981  Brazil                            Agriolture              60.0       37.8
2060     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              67.0       41.6
2061     1982  Brazil                            Health                   13.0        7.8
2062     1982  Brazil                            Highways                240.0      117.4
2116     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4       21.5
2138     1982  ELETROBRAS                        Power                   182.7      160.9
2163     1982  Brazil                            Agriculture              26.4       22.4
2170     1982  Brazil                            Urban Development       123.9      110.6
2177     1982  Brazil                            Rural Development        42.7       37.6
2193     1982  Brazil                            Urban. Development        8.9        7.5
2196     1982  CVRD                              Iron Ore                304.5      176.2
2224     1982  Brazil                            Feeder Roads            154.0      137.7
2225     1982  BNDES                             Development Banking   220.0        104.8
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Water Supply            302.3      258.5
2268     1983  Brazil                            Agro-Industries         400.0      374.0
2269     1983  Brazil                            Rural Development        67.8       62.3
2343     1983  Brazil                            Urban Development        52.7       52.6
2347     1983  Brazil                            Export Development    352.1        206.1
2348     1983  Brazil                            Agriculture             303.0       77.4
2353     1983  Brazil                            Agriculture              65.2       61.0
1729-1/1 1983  Brazil                            Agriculture               7.7        7.7
2060-1 7  1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              22.8       22.8
2364-1T  1983  Eletrobras                       Power                   250.6      250.6
2365     1983  Eletrobras                        Power                  222.8       222.2
2366  /1 1983  Brazil                            Education                20.0       20.0
Total                                                  9,419.1 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                   1,413.8
Total now outstanding                                  8,005.3
Amount sold                               45.8
Of which has been repaid                45.8             0.0
Total now held by Bank                                 8,005.3
Total undisbursed                                                 4,130.6
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April. 30 and October 31.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 3
B. STAM!MENT OF IFC INVESIS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                                                                            AmoLnt in US$ ni-lion
Year                                        O b I i g o r                                  Type of bulness                    7a         Equity    Total
1957                  Siemres do Brasil Cia. de Electricidade                           Electrical Equipnt                       2.00        -       2.00
1958                  Olirkraft, S. A. Celulose e Papel                                 Pulp aid Paper                           1.20        -        1.20
1958                  D. L. R. Plasticts do Brasil, S. A.                               Automotive Parts                         0,45        -       0.45
1958                  WiIlya-Overland do Brasil, S. A. - Industria e Ccercio            Motor Vehicles                           2.45        -        2.45
1959                  Corpanhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S. A.                      Ceent                                    1.20        -        1.20
1959                  Champion Celuloe, S. A.                                          Pulp                                     4.00        -       4.00
1966/1968/1972        Acos Villares, S. A.                                              Steel                                    8.00       1.93     9.93
1966/1969             Papel e CeLilose Catarinense, S. A.                               Pulp and Paper                           3.78       3.41     7.19
1967/1972             Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Corercio de Pertilizantes        Fertilizers                              8.22       3.03     11.25
1969                  Petroquicica Uriso, S. A.                                         Petrodcemicals                           5.50       2.88     8.38
1970                  Poliolefinsa, S. A. Industria e Coercio                           Petrochemidrls                           5,50       2.88     8.38
1971                  Oxiteno, S. A. Indistria e Canerctio                              Petrochemirals                           4,60       1.44     6.04
1971                  Rio Grande - Ccmpanhia de Celulose do Sul                         Pulp                                     4,90        -       4.90
1972/1975/1981        Cmpainhia de Cinanto Nacional de Minas                            Cetmnt                                 169.14       6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    Coapanhia Siderurgica da Guanabama - OCSIGUA                     Steel                                   76.97      11.87    88.84
1973                  Capital Market Development Find - IUiZAP                          Capital Market Developaent               5.00        -        5.00
1973/1978/1983        Eopresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerais - C333YN, S. A.   Nickel Mining and Refining              85.00       8.74    93.74
1974                  Iriustrias Villares, S. A.                                        Elevators and Industrial Tquipment       6.00        -       6.00
1974                  Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape, S. A.                                  Textiles                                31.00       -       31.00
1975/1979             Capuava Csrbxos Irdustrias Ltd.                                   Carbon Black                             6.18       1.19      7.37
1975                  Oidteno Nordeste, S. A.                                           Petrochticdals                          10.00        -       10.00
1976                  Santista Ir.dustria - Textil do Nordeste, S. A.                   Textiles                                 6.45       1.00      7.45
1976/1980             Tecgnor S. A. - Textil Cataroianse do Nordeste                    Textiles                                16.20        -       16.20
1977                  F3B S. A. Productos Matalurgicos                                  Iron and Auminum Castings               20.00        -      20.00
1977                  Mineratao Rio do Norte S. A.                                      Mining                                  15.04        -       15.00
1978                  Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                          Iron and Steel                           7.00       3.00     10.00
1979                  Volvo do Braail Motores e Veiculos, S. A.                         Motor Vehicles                          60.00       5.27    65.27
1980                   erting do Nordeste S. A. - MaThas                                Reada-made Garments                      2.00        -       2.00
1960                  Dende do Para S/A - Deopasa - Agricultura, lndustria
e Cosercio de Oleagirosas                                      Palmoil                                  3.50       1.00     4.50
1980                  Villares Indostrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                        Iron and Steel                           5.00        -       5.00
1980                 PFM - C rpanhia Irdustrial de Polipropilemn                        Cheticals wd Petrocbemicala             15.00       2.00     17.00
1980                  Destilaria Cianorte S. A.                                         Chemicals and Petrochemicals              -         0.25     0.25
1980                  Sotave Azazonia Qumdica e Mineral S/A                             Pertilizers                             35.00       6.00    41.00
1980                  Pollsul Petro30uiinca                                             Chemicals and Petrochemicals            43.00       5.00    48.00
1981                  Brasilpar                                                         Yeney and Capital Markets                 -         1.50      1.50
1981                  Cornanhia Brasileira de Agropeciaria - C0BRAPE                    Food and Food Processing                 5.50       3.00     8.50
1981                  Triunfo                                                          aCmic.als and Petrochemicals             46.00       4.00    50.00
1982                  Cimnnto CAUE                                                      Cernt and Construction Materials        40.00       5.00    45.00
1982                  Agrileasing S. A.                                                 Mxey Capital Market                     30.00       0.45    30.45
1983                  Cia Riograrderse de Participapass (CRP)                           Mrey Capital Market                       -         0.11     0.11
1983                  Atlas Frigorifiio                                                 Food and Food Processirg                13.04       -        13.00
1983                  Ccmpanhia Dende do Amapa (ODEPA)                                 Palm Oil                                 6.10       -         6.10
l9a3                  PISA - Papel de Imprersa S.A.                                     Pulp & Paper Products                   48.28       3.50     51.78
1983                  Sococo/S.A.                                                       Food and Food Processing                 3.0        2.50      5.50
1983                  CDIMA                                                             Cenwnt and Construction Materials       35.00       -        35.00
1984                  Gouapwhia Alcoolquitmica Nacional                                 Chazcals and Petroriemicals             20.00       4.00    24.00
Total Gross Ccamitments                                                                        916.12      91.65  1,007.77
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                         617.83      13.32    631.15
Total Camftoents Nws Held by IFC                                                               298.29      78.33    376.62
Total Undisbursed                                                                              173.73      13.71    187.44
April 16, 1984



2 26 6
ANNEX III
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data. Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Ministry of Transport
National Higway
Department with Bank
Assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank        October 1982
(d)  Appraisal mission departure           December 1983
(e)  Negotiations                          May 1984
(f)  Estimated Loan effectiveness          August 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
Periodic review of project accounts with quarterly progress
reports.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  The Bank could approve sub-projects prior to carrying out
the detailed engineering design (para. 44).
(b) Disbursement for state-level training components would
require a supplemental agreement between DNER and the
participating DER (para. 46).
(c) Terms of reference for studies would be approved by the
Bank (para. 47).
(d) DNER would maintain a Project Revolving Account for purposes
of the project, and evidence of the first deposit of US$6.0
million would be a condition of effectiveness for the loan
(para. 48).
(e) The Project Account and Special Account would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para. 53).



IBRD 18051
V E N E Z U E L A*Jj                                                                                    404                      APRA 19A
\   C:    -         \       Z S~~~~~~~~ U R N A M E \U I A N A 
CU   NAM LPRUNCHTh OMPA   Z     )                           ;BRAZIL
COLOMBIA                      R~~~~~~~~~OA VISTA/  1                 /
RORAIPAA'r'KZV  AGUOr<-J  <>P   FEDERAL HIGHWAYS SECTOR PROJECT
AMA  PA~
7 0 -  A                         t  /
j '-\~                       '' cN44    /yA>UUT '' ,                                                           _,Q_X.
P P A1                                                                         '
a            #      )            i    3 ;:            J   |Z(SALWAPGZR         \ \      \~~~~~~~~~~~~J 16'PS9OA
6FEOE
RI0~   ~        ~ ~ X Mr VELHO1%OSMO  - 3E                                          O[ tiIO  P  
--  FeHhseBR ANCOEI
-      SlBh HR ghwoy  Zrolect Ios                              L)                                   -                              C, oSA   S0A 
i3~~~~~  ~~~          NJPoa  Doic  bG                                 n l N1                                                    AJdNs!  D E    h
PERU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ CUIABA                         AL IA
~e   GOIANIA A       ,         U
U RU        U  Y  7L
PARAGUAY                    JP 0-(           sO
-20'                                                                          ZRNDcoP, ,
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION  PROGRAM 
*                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Federal Highways Sector Project (Group I Roads)                   RIO- 000 DEANEIRO
5,.th H,ghw.y Project Roads
Fedoral H,ghways                                                                T A
®     Ntoaho- Capitol.1T                                                                              A TL ANITI/K          OCEA/
A    State CapItals
-~Store aod Terr,tory Bo-dar,es                      /.B/           ,,.             AN6to                                                t
Im-loernoatonal Bou,,dar,es                                   NhrPO  N)OI
-30 '
I"                              6,0'                               o 



I



