Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13692-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April, 1995)
Currcncv Uniit                Kenya Shilling (Kshs.)
US$1 0()                      Kshs. 45.0
SDRI.0()                      US$ 1.49299
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Mctric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AL             Arid Lands
ALRMVP        Arid Lands Resource Maniagement Project
ASAL           Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
CAG            Controller and Auditor General
CD             Community Development
DRSRS          Department of Rcsource Surveys and Remote Sensing
DC             District Commissioner
DCF            Drought Contingency Fund
DCP            District Contingency Plan
DDC            District Development Committee
DFS            District Focus Strategy
DMC            Drought Management Coordinator
DMO            Drought Monitoring Officer
DMP            Drought Management Project
DMS            Drought Management Secretariat
DPC            District Program Coordinator
DRR            Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
DRRC           District Relief and Rehabilitation Committee
DSG            District Steering Group
DSU            District Support Unit
DWO            District Works Office
ECR            Emergency Cereal Reserve
EDRP           Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EWS            Early Warning System
FFW            Food For Work
GIS            Geographic Information System
IDA            International Development Association
IMS            International Monetary Fund
LMD            Livestock Marketing Division
MLRRWD         Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development
MOALDM         Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
MOPW           Ministr of Public Works
NCPB           National Cereal and Produce Board
NEAP           National Environmental Actioni Plan
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NPC            National Program Coordinator
NRRCC          National Relief and Rehabilitation Coordination Committee
NSU            National Support Unit
OP             Office of the President
PFP            Policy Framework Paper
PID            Public Information Document
PIDP           Pastoralists Integrated Development Project
PIP            Project Implementation Plan
PLA            Participatory Learning for Action
PS             Permanent Secretary
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TO             Training Ofl-ier
W`FP           World Food Program
Government Fiscal Year: July I-June 30



- i -
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agencies:  Line Ministries and Non-Governmental Agencies, under the
coordination of the Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
(Office of the President) and in collaboration with local
communities
Beneficiaries:          Arid Lands Populations, Government and Non-Governmental
Agencies
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions. The three mutually
reinforcing project components aim to reduce the poverty of ALs
populations through benefits such as increase in on- and off-farm
income generation capacity, reduction in drought inflicted losses,
provision of improved basic services, and enhanced market
linkages.
Amount:                 SDR 14.8 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard with 40 years maturity
Commitment Charge:    0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See Para. 3. 10
Net Present Value:      US$ 10.5 million. However, this amount does not include the
substantial non-quantifiable benefits expected to be generated by
the project
ERR:                    16.9%
Map:                    1BRD 26479
Project ID No.:         KE-PA-1331






REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ------------------------------------------------------
1. INTRODUCTION   -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1
2. BACKGROUND----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------2
A. Macro Economic Environment-----------------------------------------------------------                                          ---------   2
B. Sector Background-----------------------------------------------------------------------                      --2
C. The Area and People ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    3
D. Policy Environment                    -            ------------------- ----                                                           - - -5
E. Institutional Setting ----------------------------------------------------------------------------6----------------6
F. Past and Ongoing Programs in the Area------------------------------------------------------------------ --                                      6
G. Lessons Learned---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------6
H. Project Preparation-------------------------------------------------------------------------                      --                            7
I. Rationale for Bank Involvement ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 7
3. THE PROJECT--------------------------------------------------------------- ---------   9
A. Project Objectives-------------------------------------------------------------------                                  ------            ---- 9
B. Project Description---------------------------------------------------------------------------------9-----------                         - -9
C. Project Costs and Financing------------------------------------------------------------------- -----------------13
D. Project Procurement Arrangements -------------------------------------------------------------------------- -14
E. IDA Credit Allocation and Disbursements-----------16
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION------------------------------------------------------------------ 18
A. Organization and Management------------------------------------------------------------------------------------18
B. Consultancies and Studies--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------22
C.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation--------------------------------------------------------------------------------22
D. Auditing and Reporting Requirements ----------------------------------------------------------------------------23
E. Supervision Plan------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------    _-23
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY --------------------------- 25
A. Justification  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------                  --------        25
B. Project Impact ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------26
C. Economic and Financial Analysis-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------31
D. Risks------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------33
E. Sustainability-------------------------------------------------------------------------                   ---- --34
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION-------------------------------------------------- 35
A. Agreements and Assurances ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------35
B. Recommendation---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------37
This report is prepared by IDA in collaboration with the Government of Kenya. The IDA team members
consisted of. Satish Kumar, Christine Cornelius, Milena Hileman, John Nyaga, Mbuba Mbungu and Jan
Weetjens (AF20U), Gajan Pathmanathan, Preeti Ahuja (AF2AE), M.L. Mehta, E.J Burne, George Njiru, John
Kevany (Consultants) and Said Al Habsy (LEGAF). The Peer Reviewers are Harry Walters (AFTHR), Walter
Lusigi (GEF) and Jerry Silverman (AFTES). S.Barghouti (AS2AG) is the Lead Advisor. W. Lusigi also
reviewed the Environmental Assessment. The Sector Division Chief is Sushma Ganguly and the Department
Director is James W. Adams.



-2-
TEXT TABLES
3.1  Project Cost Summary .....................                                                  15
3.2  Financing Plan .....................                                                        15
3.3  Project Procurement ..................... 17
3.4  Disbursement Plan .....................                                                     18
5.1  AL Livestock Resources .....................                                                25
5.2  Drought Mortality Rates .....................                                               26
5.3    Livestock Offtake Rates .....................                                             27
5.4    Farmgate Prices (Per animal) .....................                                        28
5.5  Sensitivity Analysis .....................                                                  32
ANNEXES
1. Letter of Sectoral Policy
2. Past and Ongoing Programs in the Area
3. Drought Management Component
4. Marketing and Infrastructure Component
5. Community Development
6. Project Organization and Management
7. Project Costs by Year
B. Schedule of Disbursements
9. Summary of Environmental Impact Assessment
10. Project Key Indicators
11. Supervision Plan
12. Economic/Financial Analysis
13. Documents in Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 26479: Project Area



REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   The predominantly pastoralist populations in the eight arid districts of Kenya are counted
amongst the poorest and the most disadvantaged sections of society. Social welfare indicators show
that in terms of access to communications, public health, nutrition and education services they receive a
low fraction of services than the level available to the rest of the Kenyan population. Although the Arid
Lands (ALs) are well-endowed with livestock resources, in the absence of reliable marketing outlets
the full benefit of this resource accrues neither to the pastoralists nor to the consumers in the rest of the
country.
1.2   Existing constraints on socio-economic development in these districts are quite forbidding: the
physical environment is fragile and easily degraded; water resources are poor and variable; drought is a
recurring feature decimating up to 50 percent or more of the livestock in each severe occurrence; the
road network is inadequate and poorly maintained; and levels of illiteracy are high as are the child
mortality rates. Experience has shown that traditional nomadic pastoralist communities like many other
communities do not always adequately respond to the top-down development process; while a few
formal and community-based institutions have limited capacities to combat the prevailing constraints.
1.3    Neither effective conservation of the natural resource base nor the development potential of
these areas can be realized unless these constraints are addressed. Further, the development process
should accommodate the shifts in priorities from development to survival in times of drought and vice-
versa when normalcy returns. The proposed project addresses these constraints by focusing on drought
management and mitigation, further integration of the AL population into the mainstream of the
country's economy and the promotion of community-driven small-scale initiatives to address their
development priorities.



- 2 -
2. BACKGROUND
A. MACRO ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
2.1    Kenya is a low-income country with a per capita income of $260 in 1994 (at current prices and
exchange rates). About 75 percent of the country's land area is classified as arid or semi-anrd. The
economy is heavily dependent on agriculture, and in the arid lands, which comprise 60 percent of the
land area of the country, livestock is the main economic activity of the largely pastoralist population.
2.2    Between 1991 and 1993, Kenya's macroeconomic performance was poor. In April 1992 the
Government agreed with the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) on a program of actions necessary to
re-establish a sound macroeconomic framework which included deficit reduction, monetary restraint
and liberalization of the foreign exchange regime. Until mid- 1993 the implementation of the actions
required was unsatisfactory: though fiscal targets were basically met, monetary targets were
significantly exceeded and the liberalization of the foreign exchange regime proved to be unsustainable.
2.3    However, since mid-1993 there has been a significant improvement in macroeconomic
management: the monetary policy was tightened considerably; and the official and market interest rates
were unified. These improvements allowed the Government to negotiate a three year Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) with the Bank and the Fund supported by a one-year Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) arrangement with the IMF. The Government's performance under the
reform program was generally positive, but with slippages in some areas. The fiscal deficit was in line
with overall targets, but weak expenditure control necessitated expenditure and revenue adjustments to
keep the deficit within agreed ceilings. On the structural side, virtually all exchange controls were
abolished, the exchange rate was floated, price controls lifted and the maize market liberalized ahead of
schedule. On the other hand, civil service reform got off to a slow start and parastatal reform lagged
significantly. The economy responded positively to these measures, with the exchange rate
appreciating, reserve levels increasing, inflation declining, and a restoration of positive real growth
estimated at 3 percent in 1994. The Govemment successfully completed the 1994 ESAF arrangement
and has been discussing a new Policy Framework Paper (covering the period 1995 to 1997) with the
Bank and the Fund. The proposed framework will seek to sustain fiscal adjustment and accelerate
structural reforms, notably in the parastatal area.
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.4    Agriculture is the single largest sector of the Kenyan economy, accounting for about one-
quarter of GDP and 70 percent of employment. It makes an indirect contribution of another 30 percent
of GDP through the manufacturing and service sectors. Also two-thirds of the industrial output in the
country is agro-industry based. Historically, the performance of the agricultural sector in Kenya has
been better than the average for sub-Saharan Africa. Growth rate was 6.2 percent in 1965 through
1973, it was 4.6 percent in 1974-80 and declined to 2.5 percent in the period between 1981 and 1987.
The situation has worsened since 1988. The agricultural growth was 1.6 percent in the period 1988-92;
and it was negative in 1992 and 1993. This downtum in agricultural growth resulted largely from poor
rainfall, and the slow implementation of structural reforms.



- 3 -
2.5    The physical challenges to increasing agricultural growth are formidable. There is very little
high potential agricultural land left in the country which is not already being cropped or grazed, leaving
intensification of land use as the only available option. The fragile drier areas of the country are
experiencing the adverse environmental consequences of rapid population increases and the use of
inappropriate technologies. Sedentarization of these lands which reduces the available land for dry
season grazing has caused deepening poverty among the mainly pastoralist people of the ALs. The
impact of such sedentarization is to further reduce the dry season grazing areas available to the
livestock in times of drought.
2.6    Kenya's agriculture has the potential to grow at around 4 percent per annum provided the
policy and institutional inadequacies are minimized. The reform agenda should be governed by the
principle of clearly defining a policy environment based on developing competitive markets for
agricultural commodities. The livestock sector can play an important role in meeting Kenya's overall
growth objectives. Livestock is the primary economic activity in the arid lands and is an important
activity in the remaining areas of the country. Beef provides about 65 percent of meat production in the
country and small stock and camels, provide the remainder. Small stock and camels predominate in the
arid lands, providing the major source of cash income to that area besides being the most important
element of food of the AL populations. Livestock marketing and prices were decontrolled in 1987 but
the ALs have not been able to benefit from the improved market conditions pnrmarily because of poor
infrastructural linkages with the main consuming centers.
2.7    Kenya has also initiated activities to deal with the pressing environmental issues. The country is
faced with the stark reality that there is a growing gap between the rapidly growing population and a
fragile natural resource base which is shrinking through degradation and overuse.  A National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), which inter alia, addresses the environmental impact of poverty,
agricultural intensification, exploitation of water resources, management of biological resources and
bio-diversity, energy and transport initiatives and plans, industry, mining and urbanization is now being
implemented. The NEAP also addresses a number of issues facing the pastoralists in the ALs. These
include, pressures placed on fragile natural resources because of sedentarization, the loss of important
dry season grazing areas because of inappropriate agricultural development and settlement, the
breakdown of customary controls over the use of common property resources, and constraints in the
use of traditional stock routes.
C. THE AREA AND PEOPLE
2.8    The ALs cover over 60 percent of Kenya's total land area. The total population of the eight AL
districts of Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Samburu, Isiolo, Garissa, Tana River and the arid
divisions of Baringo numbers about one million people, i.e. about 4.6 percent of the total Kenyan
population. The ALs fall mainly within Kenya's agro-ecological zones VI and VII and have the
following physical characteristics. Zone VI which accounts for 22 percent of Kenya's land area has a
rainfall to evapotranspiration ratio between 15-20 percent and is classified as arid lands. Zone VII,
which accounts for 41 percent of Kenya's land area has a rainfall to evapotranspiration ratio of less than
15 percent and is classified as very arid. Zone VI areas receive between 300-500 mm rainfall annually
and zone VII between 200-300 mm. The soils in ALs are highly variable, generally of light and
medium texture and are shallow. In general they are subject to compaction and capping and are
susceptible to erosion. Surface water resources are scarce and highly variable. These regions have a
low capability of supporting vegetation.



- 4 -
2.9   Pastoralism is the predominant occupation in the ALs. Pastoral communities in these districts
belong to closely-knit tribal groups which have been rival herdsmen for ages. The major tribal groups
are Turkanas in Turkana district; Samburus and Turkanas in Samburu district; Borans in Isiolo district;
Borans, Gabra and Rendille in Marsabit; and Somalis of six main clans in Garissa, Mandera and Wajir
districts.  The people are predominantly  semi-nomadic or nomadic pastoralists, though some
sedentarization has started to occur. The ability of pastoral communities to survive through periods of
drought has been highly dependent on their capacity to spread their risks, to move on to new areas of
grazing as resources are depleted, and to take advantage of highly diverse dry land environments
(riverine woodlands, hilltop forests, dispersed watering points, and so on).  Extensive seasonal
movements in response to scarcity or abundance of resources have featured prominently as part of
pastoral survival strategies.
2.10   The ability of the AL populations to continue their pastoral way of life has come under
increasing pressure in the last two decades, as access to the dry-season grazing areas has been lost to
agriculture and settled ranching in the neighboring semi-arid lands. There are increasing trends of
pastoralists sedentarizing around water points in the ALs as well. Consequently, the overall carrying
capacity of the ALs has been reduced, a feature which has been exacerbated by tribal conflicts. The
growing inability of these lands to sustain their human and livestock population is highlighted during
recurrent droughts which decimate up to 50 percent or more of the livestock population in each severe
occurrence. Pastoralists are increasingly migrating to the nearest towns during droughts in search of
water and relief food. These population centers are ill-equipped to serve as drought mitigation centers
or to support post-drought recovery.
2.11   Almost the entire population in the ALs can be classified as below the poverty line. For
example, the ALs have fewer than 2.2 doctors and 15 nurses per 100,000 population compared with
the national average of 15 and 25 respectively; about 43 percent of the primary school-age children in
the ALs enroll in schools compared with the national average of 95 percent, literacy in the AL districts
is estimated at below 20 percent, compared with the national average of 69 percent, and infant
mortality is almost twice the national average. Further, the trends in infant and child mortality rates
show little signs of improvement; education and literacy figures also show little improvement over the
years. School dropout rates are high: one survey in Turkana showed that less than 10 percent of those
enrolled in Standard I stayed in school until Standard 8. In terms of infrastructure the ALs are poorly
served by roads and have limited access to sources of energy. The ALs have 40 km of roads per 1000
sq. km, while the average for other areas is almost 200 kmi; the AL populations consume less than one-
hundredth of the average per capita electrical power consumption.
2.12   The ALs contribution to the national economy is substantially below its potential.  Situated
farthest from the principal Govemment and commercial centers in the north and east of the country in a
region of poor infrastructure, the AL populations are isolated from the social and economic mainstream
of the country. Consequently, their access to markets for livestock products, the main economic assets
of these populations, is poor. This situation has been further aggravated by social conflicts, which have
rendered the traditional stockroutes unreliable. Thus a population of around one million people with
very little linkages with the rest of the economy, faces a deteriorating natural resource base, declining
food security and deepening poverty. That situation is, nevertheless, reversible. The area has
considerable untapped potential arising from its rich endowment in livestock: the eight arid districts
contain nearly 20 percent of country's cattle, 30 percent of sheep, nearly 50 percent of goats and
donkeys and almost the entire camel population.



- 5 -
D. POLICY ENVIRONMENT
2.13   The Govemment has had a well-articulated Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) policy since
1979 when an official document' set out the ASAL policy framework for the 1980's. The main
objectives were stated as resource conservation, exploitation of productive potential, development of
human resources and integration of the ASAL into the national economy. These policy objectives have
been upheld and elaborated in subsequent policy documents, mainly the 1989-93 National
Development Plan and a revised ASAL policy document issued in 19922.  This document places
substantial emphasis on drought contingency planning in order to strengthen the coping mechanisms of
local communities. Guidelines for policy implementation emphasize that projects and programs will be
undertaken within the District Focus Strategy; and communities and local institutions will be involved
in design, preparation and implementation of the projects.
2.14   Three major concems, however, are not fully reflected in either Govemment policies or
program initiatives. First, the Government has not yet enunciated a national policy on drought
management for the ALs. The current policy outline does not fully address the issues faced by the
pastoralist populations in these areas. The Government formulated a "drought contingency action plan"
and a "food security action plan" under the Bank-financed Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (ASAO II, Cr. 2204-KE), but these drafts were neither adopted nor operationalized.
Similarly, several recommendations on drought management made in the Kenya Food and Nutrition
Policy Report (Report No. 8351-KE) have not been acted upon. The drought management efforts in
the past have been mostly limited to the securing of food and other relief supplies from donors and their
distribution to drought-affected populations. Second, there is a need to evolve specific policy initiatives
for addressing issues concerning the detenrorating natural resource base in the ALs. There is a need for
educating and mobilizing communities to prevent natural resource degradation. The pastoralist
communities in the ALs are not adequately protected by tenurial and grazing rights. Some interventions
such as the installation of large boreholes as permanent water points are known to have caused harm to
the environment. Third, the Government is implementing The Land Adjudication Act (Cap 284) in
Samburu, Isiolo and Marsabit districts under which common land is adjudicated and titles given to
individuals. Though the process is very slow and limited to certain areas, the impact of this land
redistribution on the pastoral communities needs to be studied. In addition, a policy framework needs
to be in place for appropriate program initiatives to be developed (para 3.8).
2.15   Furthermore, most of the laws relevant to the development of ALs have been in effect since
colonial days. Since the development policy in Kenya has changed fundamentally between the colonial
times and the present, there is every probability that such laws are not consistent with the current
policy. There is therefore a need for the Government to carry out a thorough review of all laws and
regulations pertaining to ALs and to assess whether such laws are adequate in implementing
Govemment policy and protecting the rights of the pastoralists. Such a review should also cover the
enforcement mechanism of the laws in question (para 3.8).
"The Arid and Semi-Arid Lands of Kenya - A framework for Implementation, Planning and Evaluation
2 "Development Policy for the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands"



- 6 -
E. INSTITUTIONAL SETTING
2.16   The Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development (MLRRWD) and the
Office of the President (OP) have the main responsibilities for policy and programs in ASALs.
MLRRWD handles the policy development for ASALs, OP is in-charge of drought policy and the
coordination of programs concerning drought management, relief and rehabilitation. It is also in charge
of district, regional and national administration which are in charge of carrying out Government
programs. Recently the Government has strengthened institutional capacity for drought and relief
operations by establishing a separate Department of Relief and Rehabilitation (DRR) in the OP headed
by a Permanent Secretary. The only Bank-funded project in the ALs, the Emergency Drought
Recovery Project (EDRP - CR. 2460-KE) is housed in DRR. The Drought Recovery Programme is
integrated into the institutional structure of the Office of the President. In the field, the program is
coordinated by district program coordinators reporting to the District Commissioner (DC).
2.17  The Government of Kenya has adopted the District Focus Strategy (DFS) for implementing
rural development initiatives. The DFS is intended to decentralize management responsibilities
(including planning and monitoring) to the district, which is the smallest management unit within the
Kenyan institutional structure containing key technical and financial mechanisms to plan and implement
development activities. However, the implementation experience of several projects such as the IDA-
funded Baringo sub-project of the Rural Services Design Project (Cr. 1974-KE), IFAD-financed
Kwale-Kilifi District Development Project, and the Coast ASAL Development Project, shows that
generally the ministries did not adequately delegate functional authority to the districts commensurate
with their role envisaged under the DFS.
F. PAST AND ONGOING PROGRAMS IN THE AREA
2.18   A number of multilateral and bilateral projects have been introduced in the ASALs in the last
two decades. With the exception of a few, these have largely focused on the relatively better off sermi-
arid lands. The only major investment effort supported by IDA in the arid lands is the EDRP which is
being implemented in five arid districts, namely Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, Wajir, and Tana River.
Details of these projects are summarized in Annex 2 along with constraints faced in implementation.
G. LESSONS LEARNED
2.19   Both the successes and failures of the current and past development interventions in ALs,
described in Annex 2, have lessons for the proposed project. The first lesson is that in these
predominantly pastoralist communities, characterized by strong tribal and clan structures, sustainable
development would not be possible unless the objectives addressed by the project are articulated by the
community. Community ownership of the project is essential for sustainability. This will occur only if
the community has an effective say in decision making. The second lesson is that project interventions
should be simple enough that communities can manage them. The technologies used should be low-
cost, i.e., affordable, to ensure sustainability. The third lesson is that the program should expand only
as the absorptive capacities of the districts and the communities improve. The fourth lesson is that
building capacities of the communities, participating NGOs and the Government's institutional
structures should receive high priority for the development interventions to succeed. Human resource
development should be regarded as a key input for the community development interventions. Further,
in the arid lands, often susceptible to droughts and famine, the priorities of a community can oscillate



- 7 -
between development and survival, the project objectives should take into account this requirement and
implementation should be dynamic and flexible enough to accommodate these changes.
2.20   The project should be executed within the framework of the Govemment's District Focus
Strategy. Centralized planning and management models applied to projects in high potential areas have
little chance of succeeding in these far-flung areas with poor capacities and communications. Programs
in the ALs where funds from donors (UNDP, bilateral) flow directly to the project implementers in the
field have performed well. The Bank/IDA funds however are channeled through the Govemment
budgetary and accounting process. The lesson is that an arrangement would need to be established
within these processes which is effective in securing the required incremental funds in the annual
budgets in order to adapt the delivery of government services to a community based model, followed
by a mechanism for planning at the community and district level and subsequent flow of funds to the
implementing agencies. The time span of the project should be sufficiently long to establish durable
relationships between implementers and communities by building an adapted model of delivery of
services to these nomadic communities.
H. PROJECT PREPARATION
2.21   The lessons learned have been applied during project preparation, in project design and the
proposed implementation arrangements. Initial project preparation was undertaken by a Government
inter-ministerial planning team. At appraisal, all the target districts were visited and several planning
workshops held to involve field implementers in the design of the project. With regard to
implementation procedures, the workshops examined the applicability of the proposed procedures in
the context of existing implementation capacities in the target districts. In addition to the participants in
the workshops, field agencies, some local NGOs and bilateral donor-funded initiatives in these areas
were also consulted.
2.22   Attempts were also made to involve potential beneficiaries in the final project preparation
exercises. The initial guidelines for community participation were developed by undertaking
community-oriented planning exercises with pastoralist communities on location. Community
participation has thus been fostered through following a bottom-up approach and beneficiary
involvement in project design. The experience of the Drought Monitoring System under the
Netherlands-supported Drought Management Project was pilot tested in a training workshop in one of
the target districts and the results incorporated in the design of the drought management component. In
the mid-term review of the EDRP, several beneficiary participation initiatives have been included and
strengthened which would evolve into the Arid Land Resource Management Project (ALRMP)
programs. Finally the project design allows for a phased approach, which would permit project
implementation in two stages: launching and slow build-up of activities in stage one, followed by full
deployment of activities in all the districts in stage two, incorporating the lessons learned during a
comprehensive mid-term review. This would match implementation to the capacities of implementers,
and afford opportunities for applying mid-course corrections.
1. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
2.23   The project is consistent with the Bank's Country, Sector and Environmental strategies, and
supports the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in April 1994; it is also
consistent with the current 1995 CAS. The focus of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy is



- 8 -
poverty reduction through accelerated growth and employment generation. This strategy
emphasizes macroeconomic stability, improved public sector efficiency and development of an
export-oriented private sector, as well as strengthening the basis for equitable and sustainable
development by addressing longer-term human resource issues and arresting the deterioration of
Kenya's fragile environment. The CAS seeks to advance such objectives through the country
dialogue, and by supporting efforts to alleviate population pressures and develop the ASALs, as part of
the country assistance program. ALRMP's components and implementation strategy are thus im
accordance with the CAS; the project specifically supports the CAS objective of strengthening the
basis for equitable and environmentally sustainable economic development. With its focus on
providing basic social services and environmental protection, the proposed ALRMP is a central
feature of IDA's "core" lending program. The proposed ALRMP is a Program of Targeted
Interventions, aimed at assisting the pastoralists in the arid districts, who are counted among the
poorest of Kenya's population. It seeks to reduce the chronic poverty and enhance food security
in these districts, at the same time strengthening and supporting local community-driven initiatives
to better manage dry woodlands, critical grazing reserves and other fragile environments in these
arid areas. The project design draws from the findings and recommendations of the recently
finalized Kenya Poverty Assessment report, prepared by IDA in close consultation with the
Government and with the support of several donors. The proposed project incorporates
substantial beneficiary participation, and seeks to build capacity within local communities to take
advantage of development opportunities and assigns an active collaborative role to the NGOs and
other local social organizations/bodies. By emphasizing district-based initiatives, it supports
decentralized planning and implementation. The proposed ALRMP is also a logical follow-up to
the ongoing EDRP which has successfully initiated various environmentally sustainable drought
management and mitigation activities in the ALs. These activities would be expanded and
strengthened under the proposed project. Project implementation strategy and components have
been designed in accordance with the Government's stated policies on ASAL development, and
proposed project initiatives would be underpinned by the ongoing implementation of the
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP).



-9-
3.   THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The objectives of the Project are to strengthen and support community driven initiatives to: (a)
reduce the widespread poverty and enhance food security in the arid districts of Turkana, Marsabit,
Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu, and the arid divisions of Baringo District; and
(b) conserve the natural resource base in the arid lands through: (i) improving crop and livestock
resilience to drought; (ii) increasing econormic linkages with  the rest of the economy; and (iii)
improving basic health services, water supply and other social services.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.2   Summary Description: The project would have three components:
(a)    Drought Management: This component would institutionalize at the national and
district levels a structure to effectively manage all the phases of drought. These include
preparedness (drought monitoring), rnitigation (drought contingency planning and rapid
reaction) and recovery (continued drought relief activities). The project will build on
the successful model for drought monitoring piloted under the previous project;
(b)   Marketing and Infrastructure: This component would address the bottlenecks that
impede livestock market linkages between the ALs and the rest of the national
economy; and,
Community Development (CD): In order to become fully responsive to the
communities' priority needs and demands, this component would be instrumental
in assisting line ministries and collaborating agencies to adapt their organization
and delivery systems to the specific conditions of the ALs.
3.3 Detailed Project Description: An overview of each of the three project components is as follows:
3.4   Drought Management (US$ 10.9 million including contingencies): This component
will:
(a)   Establish at the national and district level policy and operational responsibilities for
drought management in Kenya. As a first step, the project will implement a Drought
Monitoring System which has been tested successfully under EDRP. The Department for
Relief and Rehabilitation will monitor through this system a representative sample of the entire
and land population on a monthly basis. The objective of the monitoring system is to detect
specific drought related risks and to warn decision makers at both the district and the national
level as early as possible so that immediate and targeted actions can be taken by the relevant
line ministries to mitigate these risks. As part of policy development, national and district level



- 10 -
manuals and contingency plans would be developed to enhance strategic planning for the
management of drought and famine
(b)    Establish: (i) a Drought Contingency Fund for immediate drought interventions to
finance the respective line ministries' specific emergency activities - incremental to their
routine delivery of services - to protect communities' livelihoods and to mitigate the negative
impact of risks at an early stage. An example is an emergency immunization campaign, (ii) an
Emergency Cereal Reserve to maintain small stocks at the district level to be used for
emergency food relief and food for work interventions to see through the initial period of
drought; and (iii) there is also a need to continue drought recovery activities (especially
around the urban centers) for people who have been made destitute by the 1993 drought. The
specific support that should be provided to these communities will be identified by the
communities themselves (with the assistance of a team of technicians of the respective line
departments) through Participatory Learning for Action (PLA) exercises, resulting in
community work plans
(c) The project would finance other drought preparedness and mitigation interventions
such as the establishment of dry season and drought grazing reserves and strategic water
supplies. Communities would plan and participate in the implementation of these mitigation
interventions. To facilitate the flow of goods and services, the project will also assist in the
maintenance of road infrastructure through the Ministry of Public Works, with a view to
establishing labor intensive road maintenance activities which can be used as food for work
initiatives during periods of drought, initially as a pilot activity.
3.5    Marketing and Infrastructure (US$ 3.4 million): Under this component a community
based approach will be used to determine actions which can be taken to create an improved
marketing environment. These actions may include: (a) rehabilitation of stock routes, water
points and other infrastructure facilities; (b) development of new and rehabilitation of existing
market-related infrastructure, including animal holding grounds, animal marketing centers and
slaughter houses; (c) improvement and strengthening of the Livestock Marketing Information
System; and (d) development of user-related initiatives in marketing of animals. The marketing of
other products such as hides and skins or gum arabic could also be included. Training and
capacity building in relation to the management and operation of community facilities, the
formation of herders associations would be an integral part of this component.
3.6    Community Development (US$ 5.9 million): This component is designed to achieve the
fundamental objective of increasing the communities' capacities to protect and develop their
livelihoods by dealing with the drought cycles in an effective way. The CD Component will be
implemented following a phased or pilot approach in four arid districts over a four year period
initially. Provided the findings at mid-term are positive, CD would be continued for the full project
term of six years and its coverage will be extended to the remaining districts. The project will be
instrumental in assisting each of the line ministries involved to improve and adapt their mode of
intervention and organization to the specific conditions in the ALs so as to become responsive to
the communities' specific needs and demands. Participatory Learning for Action (PLA) is the
major tool to confirm the assessment of what the communities consider to be their priorities and
to take into account socio economic, environmental and other differences between various areas



- I 1 -
in order to tailor and adapt the line ministries' service delivery system in the entire district. PLA
teams (two per district), will be constituted to carry out this exercise in selected communities (see
annex 5). Practical proposals have been elaborated by each of the line ministries during project
preparation (see annex 6). The line ministries will be expected to maintain or if necessary increase
their funding levels to successfully adapt their service delivery to the conditions of the arid lands
and to manage the drought cycle. During project implementation, each of the district line
departments will continue to improve and refine its organization on the basis of local conditions
and field experience. The District Steering Group (DSG) will identify which local NGOs and
other local organizations can be involved as implementers and trainers. The following is a
summary of delivery systems related to services already demanded by communities:
(a)    Animal Health and Livestock Production. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Development and Marketing (MOALDM) will focus on the support of Community Animal
Health Workers (CAWHs, about 100 per district) who will (a) sell basic animal drugs in their
community, (b) act as the first line animal health care, and (c) serve as "contact pastoralists"
for the dissemination of technical messages related to the improvement of the herders' capacity
to manage their livestock. These messages will relate to issues including disease prevention,
vaccination, and husbandry practices (such as control of parasites). The CAWHs will have the
possibility every month to meet with the front line staff of the departments of veterinary
services and livestock production for consultation and training.
(b)   Crop Production Support to crop production will be provided by the existing front
line extension staff (maximum 40 per district) from MOALDM. Due to the particular
circumstances - agriculture in ALs is generally being practiced in small, very well defined
"pockets" which can vary in size - the ratio of front line extension staff per farm families should
not exceed one per two hundred. The front line staff will have regular meetings with farmers
to disseminate improved know how, and will benefit from monthly training and supervision
carried out respectively by the district based subject matter specialists and the district
agricultural officer.
(c)    Water  With regard to rural water supply, the focus of the Ministry of Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water Development (MLRRWD) will be on improving community
water supply systems and strengthening the community water users associations' capacity to
manage and maintain new and existing water points. At the district level, a tearn of trainers will
train members of the users associations with regard to management skills, operational
maintenance, book keeping, formulation of bylaws, environmental impact, etc. In addition, the
users associations will identify Community Water Workers - pump attendants, pipe fitters, line
patrollers, mechanics and electricians - to assure the maintenance of the installation. A
maintenance unit will be on call at the district level to react to demands from the respective
users associations to intervene for repairs surpassing the CWWs' capacity.
(d)   Health The Ministry of Health's (MOH) Primary Health Care Program is designed to
assure: (a) maximum mother and child welfare through the training of Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBA, 2 to 5 per community); (b) treatment of minor ailments, preventive and
educational services through Community Health Workers (CHWs, 15 to 20 for a population of
about 10,000 people), and; (c) treatment of ailments and Matemal and Child Healti/Family
Planning services through professional outreach teams (one per district). This strategy makes it



- 12 -
possible to reach nomadic communities as well as settlements without any health facility.
Support to TBAs and CHWs is provided by division based Nomadic Primary Health Care
Teams.
(e)    Coordination The District Project Coordinator's role is critical to the success of the
implementation of this component: the line ministries can only successfully pursue the
adaptations that should be made to their organization and delivery system if they have strong
(and external) support to overcome the many difficulties en route. Although there are no
hierarchical links between the Coordinator and the heads of departments of the line ministries
at the district level, he/she will provide critical feed back regarding the efficiency of the
respective line ministries' field operations, and whatever guidance and support needed to
implement their program.
3.7    Training: Training constitutes one of the main activities under the program. Staff of each
of the respective line ministries will participate in initial training courses to master the
organizational changes and adaptations to the working methodology, and will benefit from
continuous refresher courses to stay up to date with the latest relevant technology. This training is
crucial to allow staff to provide, each in their field of expertise, the best quality of services
possible to the community members. Given the importance of the Participatory Learning for
Action for the identification and planning of support and services that should be provided by the
line ministries, special attention will go to the training of staff in the methodology and techniques
of PLA. During project preparation, each of the line ministries has outlined the broad framework
for the respective training programs. In the course of implementation, these programs will be
refined and further elaborated in practical training curricula and annual training programs. These
training activities will include: (a) training of planners, policy-makers, field implementers,
community leaders and other community members in implementation activities; (b) development
of appropriate curricula to conduct "under the tree" training courses for community members; (c)
training, including orientation courses, for middle- and senior-level civil servants on drought
management, livestock marketing and community development programs; and, (d) acquisition of
library books, manuals, teaching aids and other educational equipment where needed.
3.8    Studies: Under the project, studies will be carried out on the degradation of the natural
resource base and developing a policy and legal framework on natural resource conservation.
Mainly local consultants will be hired. Subjects for studies may include: (i) regulations and
practices on grazing rights; (ii) creating institutional and non-formal conflict-resolution
mechanisms, (iii) testing improved desert resource management technologies; (iv) implications of
sedentarization of stock routes and emergency grazing reserves (v) implications of dry season
grazing areas; (vi) regime of restriction of movement of cattle from the ALs to other parts of the
country: (vii) market information systems for livestock; and (viii) ways to involve the private
sector in the establishment of slaughter houses. In addition, a review of laws and regulations will
be carried out pertaining to the development of ALs, including a study on the land tenure system
and development of instruments to protect and enforce the tenurial rights of pastoralists in the
ALs. The Government has agreed to enter into a contract with a consulting firm before Credit
effectiveness to carry out these studies. The Government has furnished to IDA a Letter of



- 13 -
Sectoral Policy defining the Government's position on the issues raised in this paragraph and
other policy and operational issues that would affect the implementation of this project (Annex 1).
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.9 Estimated project costs are presented in Table 1. Project costs by year are given in Annex 7, and
detailed project costs breakdowns are presented in the PIP. Physical contingencies of 5 percent have
been added to selected project costs. Price contingencies corresponding to the Manufacturers Unit
Value Index3 have been applied to intemationally sourced items, and the projected domestic inflation
rate has been applied to locally sourced items. A constant purchasing parity exchange rate has been
calculated to adjust local price contingencies to US dollars. All costs are net of duties and taxes.
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
%    Total
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total    Foreign    Base
Exchange   Costs
KShs. Millions      US Dollar Millions
DroughtManagement    331.4   126.7    458.1    7.4          2.8   10.2          28      44
Infrastructure and      89.9    48.2    138.1    2.0        1.1    3.1         35       13
Marketing
Community              197.5    52.0    249.5    4.4        1.1    5.5         21       24
Development
Project Implementation    140.1    61.3    201 4    3.1     1.4    4.5          30      19
Support
Total BASELINE         758.9   288.2   1047 1   16.9        6.4   23.3         28      100
COSTS
Physical               14.9    11.6      26.5    0.3       0.3    0.6         44        3
Contingencies
Price Contingencies   172.9    76.7    249.6    0.8        0.4    1.2         32        5
Total PROJ. COSTS      946.7   376.5   1323.2   18.0        7.1   25.1          28     108
3.10   An IDA creditofSDR14.8 million (US$22.0 million), or 88 percentofprojectcost, would
support the project, while the Govemment of Kenya and beneficiaries would contribute US$3.1
million. Out of the total Govemment share of US$3.1 million, the communities will contribute US$1.1
million. Line ministries will also be expected to maintain and possibly increase their support to the arid
districts to improve and adapt their delivery systems. Table 2 provides the details of the financing plan
by project component.
3/  An average annual price increase of 2.2 percent from 1995 to 2003 for intemationally sourced items, domestic
inflation rate of 32 percent for 1994, 8 percent for 1995, 7.5 percent for 1996 and 5 percent thereafter.



- 14 -
Table 3.2 Financing Plan (US$ million)
Project Components                  IDA        GOK & Beneficiaries    Total
Drought Management                        9.9                 1.0    10.9
Marketing and Infrastructure              3.1                 0.3     3.4
Community Development                     4.8                 1.1     5.9
Project Implementation Support            4.2                 0.7     4.9
TOTAL (US$ million)                      22.0               3.14    25.1
D. PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
3.11   All procurement of goods, works and services would be in accordance with World Bank
Procurement Guidelines. Bank's standard bidding documents for goods, works and consultants would
be used. At negotiations agreement was reached on an initial procurement plan, including standard
procurement processing time and schedules for standard bidding documents for critical contracts.
(a)    Civil Works All contracts estimated to cost US$250,000 or more will be by ICB and below
this value will be by LCB. Civil works in each project district would cover new office
buildings (estimated cost US$250,000), spot improvement to roads (US$400,000) and
miscellaneous works associated wAth livestock infrastructure and drought management
(US$4.9 million). These works will be carried out district-wide over the project period on the
basis of annual work plans prepared by each district. For these works foreign firms will not be
interested and adequate competition exists among local contractors. Ordinary road repair works
each estimated to cost not more than US$50,000 will be carried out by the District Works
Offices (DWOs) using the acceptable force account method and employing local labor as far as
possible. For carrying out livestock infrastructure works (water pans, boreholes, fencing, civil
structures at holding grounds/market yards or along stock routes) and drought management
works (infrastructure for drought mitigation centers and livestock grazing reserves) the DSU
will engage an appropriate district agency (DWO, District Water Engineer) who will carry out
these works following force account as described for road improvement works. The aggregate
of works under force account will not be more than US$500,000.
(b)    Goods and Equipment  Procurement of goods under contracts estimated at US$100,000
equivalent or more will be done by ICB. For contracts less than US$100,000 equivalent LCB
procedures will be adopted. In the first two years of the project vehicles, computers, survey
equipment, radio equipment for the districts will be procured centrally by the National Support
Unit (NSU) through ICB with each contract estimated to cost US$100,000 or more
aggregating to US$2.5 million. Contracts below US$100,000 up to an aggregate of US$1.2
million will be procured by LCB by the districts in terms of requirements reflected in the
annual work plans. Small contracts of US$20,000 equivalent or less will use local shopping
procedures (a minimum of three quotations), with aggregate not to exceed US$200,000.
Under ICB, domestic manufacturers of goods will be allowed a margin of preference of 15
percent or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of the
4/ Includes beneficiary contribution of US$1.1 million for CDP.



- 15 -
competing foreign bidders. Fuel, oil and lubricants covered by the O&M costs will be procured
according to normal Government procedures, which are satisfactory.
(c)    Community Development  The project envisages about 200 microprojects in the four pilot
districts in four years. In addition, the Marketing component also envisages small community
projects. These microprojects will be implemented following procedures described below. A
microproject would normally have a maximum project contribution of US$10,000 excluding a
minimum of 30 percent community share. At negotiations assurance was received that
beneficiary communities will provide a minimum of 30 percent of the microproject costs. The
microprojects will be executed by the line ministry, or a non-Government agency contracted to
carry-out the microproject as a Collaborating Agency.  Procurement procedures for the
nicroprojects would be normal GOK procedures acceptable to IDA. At negotiations the
Govemment furnished a statement establishing that full authority for procurement of goods and
services required for community microprojects is vested in the districts. These would include
shopping procedures, local competitive bidding procedures as appropriate and/or direct
contracting where the first two methods are not feasible. Each microproject contract will be
supported by a technical proposal, basic financial analysis and budget approved by the District
Steering Group, summarized in a sanction letter to be signed by the DPC. DSU would have
the responsibility to supervise implementation and report progress to the DSG.
(d)    Technical Assistance and Training The project would finance four major and several minor
studies, meet the cost of consultants and fund training of staff and communities. Consultants
will be hired following procedures set forth in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank as Executing Agency". All terms of reference for consultants, consultant contracts
for firms above US$100,000 and for individuals above US$50,000 and training proposals will
be subject to IDA prior review. All contracts, regardless of contract value, for consultants to be
appointed under NSU, and DSUs, will be subject to prior review by IDA. Where applicable,
consultant contracts would include a training component.
Table 3.3 Project Procurement (US$ million)
Procurement Method
Item              ICB        LCB        LS          Other   Total
Civil Works                                5.1                   0.5       5.6
(4.6)               (0.4)      (5.0)
Vehicles and Equipment           2.5       1.2        0.2                  3.9
(2.5)     (1.2)     (0.2)                (3.9)
Training                                                         0.7       0.7
(0.7)    (0.7)
Consultancy                                                      1.7       1.7
(1.7)    (1.7)
Community Development                                            3.7       3.7
(2.6)    (2.6)
Incremental Operating Costs                                      9.5       9.5
(8.1)    (8.1)
TOTAL                      2.5        6.3       0.2       16.1      25.1
(2.5)     (5.8)     (0.2)     (13.5)    (22.0)
NOTE: Figures in parenthesis are estimated amounts to be financed under the IDA Credit



- 16 -
3.12   Procurement Review  Table 3 shows procurement procedures to be adopted for the project.
All bidding packages (for civil works and goods) estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be
subject to IDA prior review. Other contracts will be subject to post reviews in accordance with the
provisions of Appendix I of the Bank's procurement Guidelines. The prior review process would cover
about 35 percent of the works, 70 percent of goods and 80 percent of consultant services and training.
Overall IDA prior review would cover about 57 percent of IDA-financed contracts. The level of IDA
prior review is lower than the expected 80 percent because of the nature of the project, i.e., small
community projects and decentralizing procurement to the districts.  However, it would be
compensated in several ways: (i) the annual financial audit will look at procurement matters; (ii) the
post-two year evaluation of CD component will include comprehensive review of the procurement
implementing process; and (iii) during IDA supervision, random reviews would be conducted of
procurement packages, including field visits and reviews of documentation of microprojects and other
procurement packages. A list of important contracts for works, goods and consultants and their
procurement schedule relative to the implementation plan is provided in the PIP.
E. IDA CREDIT ALLOCATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
3.13   The Project Disbursement Plan is shown in Table 4. The fully implemented credit is expected
to be disbursed over six years as shown in the disbursement schedule (Annex 8). The countrywide
profile is six and a half years. The credit closing date is June 30, 2001.
Table 3.4: Disbursement Plan
Disbursements
Amount
Items                (USD                % Financing
Million)
1. Civil Works                   4.2                   90%
2. Vehicles and Equipment        3.6            100% of foreign costs and
90% of local costs
3. Training and Consultants      2.2                   100%
4. Community Development         2.5                   70%
Fund
5. Incremental Operating Costs
a) Vehicle O&M                   1.8                   90%
b) All other O&M                 5.9      90% for expenditures incurred before
December 31, 1997, 80% for
expenditures before December 31,
1999, 75% thereafter
6. Refund of PPF                 0.2                Amounts due
7. Unallocated                   1.6
TOTAL                      22.0
3.14   Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the following
exceptions, for which certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be used: (i) contracts less
than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) all local training, and (iii) operating costs. SOE thresholds for



- 17 -
consultants would be US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. SOEs would be certified
by the Finance Officer in the NSU and the External Resources Division (ERD) of the Ministry of
Finance, who would confirm that these are in agreement with the books of account. These would be
subject to review by IDA supervision missions and interim and annual audits (para 4.9).
3.15  In order to facilitate the availability of funds for the project when needed, a Special Account
will be established in a commercial bank and operated and maintained on terms satisfactory to IDA.
An initial deposit of US$1 million will be deposited by IDA into the Special Account. The Special
Account will be replenished on the basis of satisfactory documentary evidence, to be provided to IDA,
of eligible payments made from the account for goods and services required for the project. No limit
will be set on the size of the payments to be made from the Special Account other than that imposed by
the balance remaining in the account.
3.16   Flow of Funds to Districts (a) The Government will continue for ALRFMP the existing
budgeting and funding arrangement established for the EDRP for transferring project funds to the
districts for meeting the costs of district-based project activities. This arrangement comprises a single
line budget under the OP, a single Authority to Incur Expenditure (AIE) issued in favor of the DPC in
each project district, and especially enhanced district cash floats for each project district to fully meet
the cash requirements of project expenditures. Funds would be allocated to line ministries and other
collaborating agencies for activities at the district level based on the process of identification of
community priorities, which will result in district annual work plans. At negotiations the Government
confirmed that these arrangements will be applied to ALRMP and will not be altered without mutual
agreement during project implementation. (b) The Government and IDA shall monitor and review the
operation and effectiveness of the district payment mechanism from time to time. If the joint review
concludes that the payment mechanism is not effective, the Government shall, not later than three
months after being notified by IDA, introduce and implement such modification of the mechanism or of
the applicable administrative and financial rules and procedures as may have been agreed upon with
IDA.
3.17  Government has also given an assurance to make appropriate provisions of funds in the
budget for year one of the project in terms of the agreed Annual Work Plan and to ensure that
these funds are available for meeting project expenditures as soon as the project becomes
effective.



- 18-
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1    Building on the experience acquired under the previous EDRP, the ALRMP will (a)
provide a system and policy for effective drought management; and (b) strengthen the
communities' capacity to deal with further droughts. In order to assure long term sustainability,
any action or intervention will be designed to be as cost effective as possible, to be community
based, and to be implemented through the relevant line ministries and collaborating agencies.
To be successful however, the line ministries will have to adapt their way of operating to the
particularities of the Arid Lands. They will also need strong support and guidance from the
National Support Unit and the District Coordinators in the Office of the President to meet this
challenge. The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing, the Ministry of
Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development, and the Ministry of Health have
continued, during project preparation, to refine a broad outline of the adaptations to be made to
their respective ways of operating in order to become more effective in their response to the
communities' needs and demands During the respective district launching workshops, the staff
of each line department will examine how the different frameworks for action can be best
implemented, taking the local conditions into account. Yearly follow-up workshops will be
organized in each district to critically examine and improve the effectiveness of the current way
of operating.
4.2   It is ALRMP's role to assist the line ministries in the adaptation of their mode of
operation to the specific requirements and conditions of the communities in the arid lands.
To assure full ownership of the communities, in any activity involving physical inputs, the
principal of joint action will be upheld with the communities contributing at least a
minimum of 30% of the total cost. In addition to the support with regard to organizational
and technical matters, ALRMP can provide equipment to the line ministries to implement
their work plans. However, ALRMP is the donor of last resort: only after having
exhausted the own regular budget and any other possible source of financing (including
NGOs), the line ministries can request incremental financing from ALRMP. The line
ministries will be expected to maintain or if necessary increase their funding levels to adapt
their service delivery to meet the conditions of the arid lands and to manage the drought
cycle.
4.3   The organization and management under ALRMP is as follows:
4.4    National level
(a)    The National Relief and Rehabilitation Coordination Committee (NRRCC)
will define and enforce the drought management policy of the Government. It is
constituted by the Permanent Secretaries of the MOALDM, MOH, MILRRWD,
MOPW and MOE under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary for Relief



- 19 -
and Rehabilitation of the Office of the President. The NRRCC meets at least twice
every year, or whenever the need may arise to provide the policy guidance to the
program.
(b)   The Project Steering Committee (PSC) will monitor the implementation of the
program on a continuous basis and will be constituted by directors (or their senior
aides) of the respective line ministries. The PSC will be chaired by the Director of
Programs from the Office of the President. During the working sessions, the PSC
members will verify to what extent each of the line ministries' work programs in
the ALs is in line with the declared objectives. The PSC will carry out quarterly
field supervision missions to supervise and encourage the line ministries' staff at
the district level, and to propose any corrective action where and when needed.
The National Project Coordinator is the secretary of the PSC.
(c)    The National Support Unit (NSU) is responsible for (a) the coordination of the
ALRMP; (b) the monthly publication of the national drought status report; (c) the
support and supervision to the training initiatives at the district level; and (d)
development and sustainance of drought contingency plans and response
mechanisms. The NSU is headed by the National Project Coordinator, who
reports to the Director of Programs in the Office of the President, and comprises
a drought monitoring officer, a training officer, and a support unit (accounts
officer, supplies officer, drivers, secretaries, and messenger). The professional
staff in the NSU will spend most of their time in the field to assist the
implementation of the program in the ALs districts. They will give guidance to
the District Program Coordinators, and will support the respective line
departments with the field implementation of their activities. In particular, the
NSU members will assure the proper follow-up for the recommendations made by
the PSC.
4.5    District level:
(a)    The District Steering Group (DSG) will comprise the heads of departments of
each of the line ministries concerned (MOALDM, MOH, MLRRWD, MOPW and
MOE), the District Program Coordinator, as well as local NGOs and at least two
community leaders. The DSG will be chaired by the District Commissioner. The
Program Coordinator is in charge of the secretariat. The DSG is responsible for:
(a) supervising the planning of activities in each of the line departments so that
work programs filly respond to communities' needs and demands; (b) monitoring
the effectiveness of implementation; (c) development of a district drought
contigency plan; (d) reviewing the monthly district drought bulletin issued by the
Department for Relief and Rehabilitation; and (e) decide on steps to be taken for
appropriate response whithin the framework of the district drought contingency
plan. The DSG will meet at least once per month.
(b)   The District Program Coordinator (DPC) reports to the NPC in the Office of
the President and at the district level to the District Commissioner. The DPC has



- 20 -
two major responsibilities: (a) to provide critical feed back regarding the efficiency
of the respective line ministries' field operations, as well as guidance and support
needed to plan and implement their program; and (b) the monthly publication of
the drought bulletin. It is considered to be of crucial importance for the success of
the program that the line ministries would have strong and continuous external
support from the DPC. In each district, the DPC will be assisted by a support unit
comprising a supplies assistant, an accounts assistant, and three support staff
(driver, secretary, messenger). The DPC and the unit will be equipped with a 4x4
vehicle and two motorcycles.
(c)    The Drought Monitoring System will, as mentioned above, be part of the
responsibility of the DPC. In each district a Drought Monitoring Officer will be
identified, to the extent possible among the existing staff of the line ministries.
He/she will report to the DPC and be responsible for the supervision of data
collection, the analysis of the data, and the publication of the drought bulletin.
For purposes of data collection in the field, the program will train about 50
monitors per district. These monitors are part of the communities, and work on a
temporary basis (one week per month). Since they collect data in the immediate
vicinity of their locality, they do not need any particular means of transportation.
(d)   The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
(MOALDM) will, with regard to animal health and livestock production, provide
support to about 100 Community Animal Health Workers (CAHWs) per district.
As mentioned above, these CAHWs will: (a) sell basic animal drugs in their
community; (b) act as the first line animal health care, and; (c) serve as "contact
pastoralists" for the dissemination of technical messages related to the
improvement of the herders' capacity to manage their livestock. One front line
staff (about ten per district, based at the divisional level) can provide support to
about ten CAHWs. In general, the front line staff will be equipped with
motorcycles. However, it still needs to be specified during project implementation
which means of transportation would be most suitable in those cases where
motorcycles are not a practical solution. The front line staff will receive quarterly
visits from the District Veterinary Officer and the District Livestock Production
Officer, and will participate in three monthly training sessions. During project
implementation, two major issues still need to be clarified: how to organize
effective linkages with research, and how to improve and support the organization
of vaccination campaigns so as to increase coverage and to make them more
efficient and cost effective.
(e)    To improve support to crop production in the ALs, the MOALDM will improve
the organization of the existing front line staff according to two scenarios: (a) the
front line extension worker lives near the agricultural area (irrigation scheme or
rain fed farming), providing support to the farmers within walking distance not
needing any specific means of transportation, and (b) the front line staff (FLS)
provide support to a number of farmers in more than one location, therefore
needing a motorcycle to visit the farmers. All FLS will meet with farmers on a



- 21 -
fortnightly basis. The ratio of number of farm families per front line staff will vary
from district to district. However, given the distances to be traveled between
different areas where agriculture is being practiced, the ratio of FLS per farm
families should not exceed one per 200. The actual number of existing FLS also
varies considerably (depending on the importance of agriculture in the district) but
never exceeds about 40. At least once per month, FLS will benefit from
supervision. There will be one supervisor per five to eight FLS. At the district
level, a team of SMS will be responsible for the training of FLS. Once per month,
the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) will gather all FLS in a specific location
for this purpose.
(f)    The Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development
(MLRRWD) will have in each district a team to install new water points. This
team will comprise three types of units: a drilling unit for boreholes, a pump
installation unit, and a dam construction unit. These units will be equipped with a
lorry for transportation of materials. The support to communities' management
and operation of the water units is assured through monthly visits from the
divisional officers (about three per district). In most cases, these officers will be
equipped with a motorcycle. In addition, a maintenance unit is on call at the
district level to react to demands from the respective users associations to
intervene for repairs surpassing the community water workers' capacity. This
maintenance unit comprises an electrician, a plant mechanic, and a plumber and
will be provided with a 4x4 vehicle equipped equipped with the necessary tools.
Supervision is assured by the district training officer and the district water
engineer. The district training officer will visit each of the divisional water officers
at least once per month. These visits are also instrumental to upgrade the front
line staffs' skills. The district water engineer visits each of the communities at least
once every quarter to check on the efficiency of the services delivered by his staff.
(g)    At the district level, the Ministry of Health will have a District Nomadic Primary
Health Core Team of about four members. The core team is under the leadership
of the district nomadic primary health care coordinator who is responsible for the
supervision of field activities and the training of staff in the health centers and
dispensaries. At the division level there is a health center which is headed by a
clinical officer. The officer supervises, among other things, the divisional nomadic
primary health care team constituted of the public health officer, and a community
nurse. The members of this team are trained during a one week course as trainers
of trainers (TOTs) and participate in continuing education courses about once
every three months. They are responsible for the training and supervision of the
Village Health Committee members, the Community Health Workers (CHWs), and
the Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs), and will, to achieve this, visit settlements
without any health facilities once every month on a specified day. The team will be
equipped with two motorcycles. To assure treatment of minor ailments in
settlements and in nomadic communities, a district based team of five officers visit
settlements without health facilities at a well defined time and place (so that
nomadic people will know where and when they can meet with this team for



- 22 -
consultation). The team will have a van equipped to provide primary curative and
preventive health care. In optimal conditions, the team can visit each settlement
once every two months.
4.6   Project Phasing  The Drought Management and Marketing and Infrastructure
components of the project would be implemented over a six-year implementation period. The
Community Development component would initially be implemented in only four districts over
a four-year period. However, if the findings of the evaluation at mid-term are positive,
decisions would be made to continue the component for the full project term of six years in
these districts and to extend its coverage to the remaining districts. A sum of US$1.3 million
has been included in the project costs for this purpose. Groundwork for project start-up will
commence in the zero year (starting in early 1995) and will be mainly devoted to establishing
both the institutional and organizational infrastructure as well as advance action for the
procurement of vehicles and equipment. The demonstrated benefits accruing from project
initiatives would encourage the conflict resolution process and form the basis for expanding
project activities to the relatively insecure areas. It was agreed during negotiations that a
comprehensive mid-term review would be carried out at the end of year three between
September 30, 1998 and December 31, 1998, and lessons learned incorporated. A detailed list
of topics to be covered at the mid-term review has been included in the PIP. Project activities
in the zero year will be funded through a PPF and partly through the components of EDRP
which have been aligned during its mid-term review to eventually dovetail into ALRMP.
B. CONSULTANCIES AND STUDIES
4.7   The project provides for about 48 person-months of consultancies for drought
management and community development, for guiding and advising on preparation of the
national and district drought manuals and contingency plans and the establishment of the
drought monitoring system (para 3.4) and for advising on operational issues related to
community development activities. The project will also finance studies in tenurial and grazing
rights of pastoralists, resource management in ALs and on marketing.
C. PROJECT MONITORING AN" EVALUATION
4.8   Baseline studies will be carried out under EDRP and under the project preparation
facility, which will form the basis for project evaluation.  Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that the design and formats of the baseline studies will be finalized in consultation
with IDA. The timeframe for conducting the surveys was agreed at negotiations. Monitorable
indicators have been developed during appraisal and are included in the PIP. A list of key
indicators finalized during negotiations is attached (Annex 10). During implementation, an
annual review workshops will be held, rotationally in each district, as a sharing, best-practice
learning event.  All implementers in the field, including govemment ministries, NGO
functionaries, representatives of participating communities, and staff of DSU/NSU will be the
participants.  The workshop will review implementation of the previous year, identify
constraints and issues, select best practices and set goals and Implementation methodology for
the next year. An annual evaluation of the CD component will be carried out. The review at the
end of year two will be comprehensive so that lessons are applied in the implementation of the



-23 -
component in the remaining period. An impact evaluation of the project will be carried out at
rmid-term and in the terminal year of the project. The impact study will particularly focus on
the benefits of improved market linkages, i.e., improved livestock take-off and farm gate
prices, the reduction in drought inflicted losses, and increase in the off-farm income generation
capacity. At negotiations Government assurance was obtained for conducting the impact
evaluation study as proposed above. Agreement was also reached on the design and important
details of the study.
D. AUDITING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
4.9   The overall financial management, accounting and budgeting of the project will be the
responsibility of NSU, which will co-ordinate all financial transactions including disbursement
requests generated by DSUs. NSU and the districts would maintain accounts and records for
project activities, including for SOEs and the Special Account, as relevant (paras. 3.13 and
3.14) in accordance with sound accounting practices satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were
received during negotiations that the Government would (i) have the records and the accounts
of the project, including those for the Special Account and SOEs, audited for each fiscal year
by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) or private auditors appointed by the CAG and
acceptable to IDA; (ii) submit the audit reports to IDA within six months of the close of every
fiscal year; (iii) ensure that the audit would comprise the auditor's report on the project
accounts comprising balance sheet (to show fixed and current assets), operating expenditure
statement and statement showing sources and application of funds, the Special Account and the
SOEs. The audit report will also include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting system
and intemal controls. At negotiation the GOK provided assurances that (i) project audit reports
will be fumished to IDA in formats generally and/or specifically agreed between GOK and
IDA; and (ii) the project's financial management and accounting system will be in place and
operating before effectiveness.
4.10   Semi-annual reports, in agreed formats included in the PIP, on the progress of project
components would be prepared and submitted to IDA by the NSU. A mid-term review of the
progress and impact of the project interventions will be undertaken by OP and IDA not later
than September 30, 1998. To facilitate this review, the NSU will prepare a project mid-term
status report and furnish to IDA at least three months before the scheduled date for the mid-
term review. The review would form the basis for the Government/IDA to assess what
corrective action may need to be taken and whether any reallocation between components is
required. Six months before the project closing date, the Borrower will prepare and make
available to IDA its own implementation evaluation report on the project's execution and initial
costs and benefits, IDA's and the Government's performance of their respective obligations
under the Credit Agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the credit were achieved.
The formats for the evaluation report have been described in the PIP.
E. SUPERVISION PLAN
4.11   The project would be supervised more intensively by GOK and IDA in the first two
years to guide community-oriented implementation and cooperation between various
development actors in an environment where process is as important as the achievement of
basic objectives. IDA supervision would require experts in institutions and community



- 24 -
development, drought management and livestock marketing and procurement at least twice in
each of the first two years and once armually in the remaining period.  In addition, a
disbursement specialist would join at least three missions in the first two years and later at the
time of the mid-term review. A roads engineer will be engaged in a few missions to review the
spot improvement program  for repairing critical district roads.  The procurement and
disbursement specialists participating in the missions will also provide training and orientation
to the field staff. The first three missions will particularly focus on recruitment and staffing of
positions in the district and national project support units, training, establishment and smooth
operation of cooperation procedures, successful contracting for critical goods and consultancies
for studies, and intensive on-the ground review  of the community microprojects and
community participation in project implementation. Review of the Government's arrangements
for the flow of funds would also receive serious attention, as would the adequacy of budgeting
and timely fund availability to the districts for meeting project expenditures. A detailed
supervision plan indicating approximate mission schedules, key activities to be reviewed, items
of special focus, expected skills and estimated staff inputs is given in Annex 11.



- 25 -
5.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. JUSTIFICATION
5.1   The over-arching objective of the project is to reduce widespread poverty and
enhance food security in the Arid Lands (about 75% of Kenya's land area is classified as
arid or semi-arid, with the ALs comprising 60% of the total land area of Kenya). Almost the
entire population of around I million people in the ALs are below the poverty line as defined in
the recently finalized Poverty Assessment report (discussed in paras. 2.8-2.12). The
predominantly pastoralist populations in the arid districts, are in fact counted among the poorest
and the most disadvantaged sections of society in the country. Social welfare indicators show
that in terms of access to communications, public health, nutrition and education services, they
receive a fraction of the services available to the rest of the Kenyan population. The project
specifically supports the core objective of reducing poverty and strengthening the basis for
equitable and environmentally sustainable economic development as defined in the CAS. The
project is targeted to reach a highly disadvantaged group of communities living under harsh
economic and agro-ecological conditions, and seeks to improve the living conditions of AL
populations through: (i) enhancing resilience to droughts; (ii) increasing incomes through
strengthening linkages with the rest of the economy; (iii) addressing basic needs of the
communities, and especially of women and children; and (iv) the conservation of the natural
resource base of the ALs.
5.2    Rising population pressures in the semi -arid lands have also increased the pressure on
the AL resource base (see paras. 2.9-2.10). Consequently the traditional coping mechanisms of
the AL populations are no longer adequate to allow them to recover from droughts. As a result,
their dependence on primarily donor financed relief programs has grown over the years and in
some parts of the ALs it has become a way of life. This is clearly not sustainable. The main aim
of the drought management component of the project would be to enhance the AL population's
resilience to drought, and by formulating a detailed set of arrangements for drought warning,
mitigation and recovery, aimed at reducing drought inflicted losses (see para. 3.4 & Annex 3),
and reduce the need for repetitive emergency interventions. In particular, the devastating
impact of the recurrent droughts will be contained through a comprehensive set of actions,
such as, the institutionalization of the drought management mechanism at the national, district
and local levels; strengthening of the national drought early warning system; improvement of
stockroutes (holding grounds, water points, etc.) for emergency livestock evacuation;
establishment and maintenance of drought grazing reserves; emergency veterinary campaigns,
operation of drought related CFW/FFW projects; and, support for food aid activities. In
addition, the project would strengthen and support local initiatives to better manage range
lands, critical grazing reserves and other easily degradable environments in ALs and thereby
help strengthen the traditional coping mechanisms of the AL communities as well (paras. 3.8;
5.14 and Annex 9). The project will also finance studies aimed at developing a policy and legal
framework to address important concerns in areas such as, implications of diminishing dry
season grazing regions; implications of increased sedentarization on stock routes and
emergency grazing reserves; current regulations/practices on grazing rights and introduction of



- 26 -
appropriate reforms; and, testing desert resource management technologies e.g. sustainable
water development, fodder development, grazing land management, pastoral income
diversification.
5.3   The main economic asset of the ALs is livestock (Table 5.1). However, as a result of
poor linkages with the rest of the economy (due mainly to inadequate infrastructure), the AL
communities have been unable to realize the financial benefits from this important resource
(para 2.12). The project aims to improve the linkages of the ALs with the rest of the economy.
Specifically the project would help facilitate the further integration of these communities by
providing marketing outlets for livestock and livestock products (para. 3.5; Annex 4). In
operationalizing key stockroutes, the component will finance the rehabilitation of related
infrastructure, such as, holding grounds, water points, marketing centers; the formation of user-
groups for the identification of marketing obstacles and related solutions, as well as pertinent
studies will also be supported under the project.
Table 5.1: AL Livestock Resources
| Population           Herd Value
('000)       Average       Drought period
($ millions)    ($ millions)
goats & sheep    4500            99              22
donkeys           100            5                 n.a.
camels            600           108              20
cattle           1400            196             29
5.4   The ALs have been a target of many development interventions as described in Annex
2. The main lesson learned from the successful initiatives is that, sustainable development
would not have been possible without strong community involvement in decision making and
implementation. This lesson has been the corner-stone in designing the CD component under
the project. The CD component of the project would enable communities to plan and
implement micro-projects that respond to their own priorities, building sustainability into the
development initiatives (para. 3.6; Annex 5). These microprojects would help meet basic social
needs, in particular of women and children, and also promote off/on-farm income generating
activities. ALRMP's precursor, and the only World Bank project in the area -- EDRP, is
having an impact in improving the management of livestock resources, animal health, drought,
water resources and the environment/natural resource base, as well as, strengthening local
capacities in the four arid districts where it is being implemented.
B. PROJECT IMPACT
5.5   Poverty Reduction. Designed to be implemented following a bottom-up, community-
based, demand-driven development approach, ALRMP's preparation entailed joint visits,
systematic client consultations, and "on-location" planning exercises with AL pastoralist
communities. Hence, the project's participatory planning approach, the identification of priority
actionable areas for ameliorating the quality of life of the AL communities and the direct
delivery of funds into communities, are all targeted towards reducing poverty in the ALs. The



- 27 -
poverty reduction strategy under the project, is aimed at galvanizing broad-based econormic
growth in the region through improved management of the AL poor's most abundant resources
- livestock and labor, in conjunction with the improved management of the natural resources of
the ALs (para. 5.14). The Poverty Assessment report indicates that in 1992 the poverty line in
rural areas stood at Ksh. 485 per adult equivalent unit (a.e.u) per month or about US $ 10 per
a.e.u., per month. The project would significantly increase the income of the largely pastoralist
population through: (i) reduction in mortality rates of the livestock resources, particularly, in
periods of drought; (ii) improvements in animal health leading to more rapid herd growth
(improved fertility, reduced mortality); (iii) increased volume of sales due to improvements in
herd growth rates (ensuring larger surplus for the markets), as well as, higher off-take rates due
to improved commercial linkages with the rest of the economy; and (iv) increases in farm-gate
prices due to both the improvements in quality of livestock offered by the AL pastoralists, and
the reduction in transportation and other transaction costs of middle-men/traders, a portion of
which would be passed on to the farm-level. The other mutually reinforcing element of the
project's poverty reduction strategy relates to the development of off-farm income generation
activities, which while helping push up the standard of living in the area, would both reduce the
dependence on /depletion of ALs' natural resources, and help stabilize incomes in the drought
years.
5.6    Drought Management. The main benefit of the project's drought management
activities would be the reduction of livestock losses due to the droughts which regularly
devastate these areas. Livestock losses can be very severe. In the 1984 drought, approximately
33 percent of cattle, 25 percent of small ruminants (sheep/goats) and 13 percent of camels
perished; in 1992 nearly 46 percent of cattle, 31 percent of sheep and 21 percent of camels
were lost in the six severely affected arid districts. It is very modestly estimated that the project
would help reduce livestock losses by about one-quarter of their present drought mortality rates
(Table 5.2). The resultant benefits are estimated at about US$ 9 million (at current prices) in a
severe drought and about US$ 6 million in a less severe drought. If however, the project results
in a reduction of the drought mortality rates by one-third, the gross benefits would be
equivalent to some US $ 12 million in a severe drought and US$ 8 million in a less severe
drought. If on the basis of past experience it is assumed that a severe drought is experienced
every 10 years and a less severe drought every five, then over a 20 year period potential
benefits from improved drought management are expected to be considerable.
Table 5.2: Drought Mortality Rates
Without Project               With Project
Drought Mortality Rates      Drought Mortality Rates
Severe     Less Severe     Severe       Less Severe
goats/sheep      28            12           21              9
camels         17            5            13              4
cattle        40            14           30              11
5.7   In addition, improved drought management would also lead to less deterioration of the
general condition of the animals which should result in better prices when they are sold.
Keeping more animals alive during a drought will have substantial nutritional benefits to the



- 28 -
population and reduce the need for costly food imports or aid and help minimize disruption of
the pastoralist economy.
5.8    Market Linkages, Animal Health & Farmgate Prices. The project would also lead
to improved market linkages. Over the last ten years, on average, the livestock offtake rates for
the ALs have been as follows: 7 percent of the cattle, 8 percent of the goats/sheep and about
1.5 percent of the camels from the arid lands are marketed outside the region (Table 5.3). The
project aims to increase the low average annual off-take rates of AL livestock units over time
by strengthening the marketing links with the rest of the economy. A robust domestic/export
market for livestock products exists in Kenya, hence, the additional output would be readily
absorbed. While the considerable potential for improving the current AL offiake rates may
well be realized (under ALRMIP), such that the numbers of cattle marketed increases to 11
percent and small ruminants to 25 percent annually, for the purposes of assessing incremental
project benefits, it is frugally estimated that at full development the project would increase
annual sales of cattle and small ruminants by 20 percent each over current rates -- to about 8.4
and 10 percent, respectively, and that of camels by just 10 percent p.a. (to some 2 percent).
Table 5.3: Livestock Offtake Rates
3    With-out Project           With Project
Offtake Rates           Offtake Rates
sheep/goats               8.0%                    9.6%
camels                 1.7%                     1.9%
cattle                  0 7%0%                 8.4%
5.9   It is also envisaged that the improvements in the quality of the livestock units being
sold (due to increased availability of water, fodder and animal health services), and reduction in
transportation and other trading costs, would directly translate into improvements in farm-gate
prices under the project (Table 5.4). Again, the premiums for quality and the general reduction
in transaction costs is conservatively estimated to yield a nominal 10 percent improvement in
prices, over their current levels. The farmgate prices have been calculated by averaging the
prices prevailing in project districts over the last two years; the prices prevailing during the
severe drought of year of 1991/92 were taken as the benchmark for the reduced price levels
during droughts. Given the substantial drought mitigation/management efforts under the
project, it is envisaged that the slaughter rates of cattle, particularly during the less severe
droughts will be reduced, as the effective activation of the emergency relief apparatus would
augment the staying power of the pastoralists and their herds. It is hence assumed that the
prices during the less severe droughts will stabilize at around fifty percent of the normal
farmgate price levels. Overall, the value of the incremental sales (at the improved prices) under
the project (during a normal year) is hence estimated at some US$5 million annually (in current
prices). Due to paucity of reliable data, no serious effort was made to evaluate the project
benefits deriving from increased meat, milk, skin and wool production. Nevertheless, it should
be noted that in addition to the meat, milk forms a large part of the pastoralist diet and
provides an important proportion of the necessary calories and proteins. Much of the
incremental milk produced would be consumed locally. In addition, the improved incomes of



- 29 -
the arid lands populations would have a multiplier effect through increased trade with the rest
of the economy.
Table 5.4: Farmgate Prices (per animal)
Without Project                           With Project
Farmgate prices/unit (Ksh)              Fa mgate prices/u it IKsh)
Average    Drought    Average    Less severe   Severe Drought
Prices     Prices                   drought
Sheep/goats     990         315        1,080         540             360
Camels       8,100       1,800       8,910        4,455          1,980
Cattle      6,300       1,575       6.930        3,465           1,755
5.10   . Community Development The CD component of the project would also lead to
substantial monetary and non-monetary benefits to the beneficiaries. A key focus of CD
component is to promote income-generating activities, particularly through support for off-
farm microenterprises. This support would take the form of training, limited technical
assistance, and seed capital. Although a precise assessment of the overall economic or financial
costs and benefits arising from the component is not feasible, the project is designed to draw
upon the least cost options for undertaking the proposed initiatives in the project area. It is
anticipated that about 15 percent of the AL population will benefit from the support under the
project for setting up on/off-farm microenterprises, which is envisaged to improve their gross
incomes by a modest 10 percent, it is expected that at full development, some US$ 1.5 rmillion
(in current prices), will be added annually to the gross earnings of the AL population. An
assessment (on the basis of the experiences under EDRP and other relevant development
initiatives in the ALs), of the gross annual benefits accruing from representative models of
selected (potential) microprojects with moderate investments in the areas of community
educational facilities and water schemes, indicates that over a twenty year period, the total
quantifiable benefits from these initiatives would significantly exceed the microproject
investment costs. Assuming improved employment opportunities for only about 5 percent of
the young adults receiving primary education (from a total of some 1500 students per year),
either through the application of the "under the tree" nomadic education models or through the
improvement of the more formal educational facilities, supported under the project (three
educational facilities per district were assumed), on the basis of very conservative estimates
(i.e., only a fifth of their income is attributed to their education), the total annual (incremental)
benefit from the gainful employment of these students amounts to about US$ 12,000 (in
current prices), starting in about PYI I (by PY20 the cumulative total incremental income will
amount to an estimated US$ 115,000). While US$ 12,000 is not an impressive amount per se,
this income represents a per capita incremental amount of about US$ 160 p.a. for the 5 percent
earning it, and helps push their earning levels over the poverty line. Likewise, financial analysis
relating to the provision of two borehole type water facilities for each of the project districts
indicates that, at current prices the total incremental income generated per year, from the
operation of these boreholes (for 300 days per year, at the charge of Ksh. 2 /livestock unit/day
for some 16,500 heads of livestock), a total annual income of US$ 216,000 may be expected
at full development.
5.11  In addition, the improved educational facilities and water resources will translate into
enhancing the quality of life and increasing the productivity of the local communities, as well as



- 30 -
improving their income base/potential. Improvements in the general health of the local
population and their livestock herds due to increased access to good quality drinking water
would translate into direct economic benefits, and community water schemes would lead to
increased food production in home gardens (evidence of this is visible under EDRP) and
substantial savings in terms of labor by reducing the time it takes to fetch water or trekking
animals several kms away to water points. The project is designed to draw upon the least cost
options for undertaking the proposed initiatives in the project area. The representatives of the
key technical line ministries in the District Steering Group will evaluate the soundness of the
technological packages being adopted The locally based Collaborating Agencies as well as the
AL communities themselves, would be closely involved in the selection of altemative
approaches with regard to technological processes and resources to be employed in
implementing various activities under the project Furthermore, the lessons of experience and
"best practices" that have evolved under the past and ongoing development interventions in the
area, e.g., EDRP, the Kenya Livestock Development Project funded by the European Union
and the UNDP supported Pastoralist Integrated Development Project (Annex 2), will be
applied and replicated under ALRMP. The project would, wherever possible, seek to employ
locally available cost effective and hitherto tested technology packages and resources,
eliminating the need for costly imports or exogenous technologies involving high operating and
maintenance costs. Both the design and the implementation strategy adopted for ALRMP are
based on the tenets of low cost alternatives and project sustainability. All aspects of the project
should lead to an overall decrease in dependence on food aid.
5.12   Nutrition, Health & other Social Service Interventions. On the basis of community
preferences, microprojects to address education, nutrition, health and reproductive issues, will
be undertaken. These micro-projects which would help meet basic social needs, in particular of
women and children, through support for activities in the areas of curative care, communicable
disease interventions, improved hygienic practices, safe motherhood, family planning, nutrition
education, immunization programs, are envisaged to lead to substantial monetary and non-
monetary benefits to the communities. The enhanced training of community health workers
and nomadic teachers would also lead to better nutritional and health levels and increased
literacy.
5.13   Community Empowerment & Local Capacity Building. The project seeks to foster
genuine local ownership of the development process in Kenya through assigning a pivotal role
to the AL communities in making development decisions. Not only did the AL communities
play a crucial role in the design of the project, but they will continue to be heavily involved in
its implementation. AL communities (assisted by line ministries, NGOs and local self help
groups, as needed) will identify, plan, implement and participate the all development activities
financed under the project. Participation orientation workshops, community development, and
community members'/ leaders' training programs are an integral part of the project.
5.14   Environmental Impact The project is envisaged to have a beneficial environmental
impact by seeking to contain the deterioration of the fragile ecosystem and reducing the
incidence of desertification. The project will contribute significantly to improving the
management of fragile environments in the ALs by strengthening the ability of the pastoral
communities to plan and implement appropriate development initiatives, to control access to
critical grazing reserves, and to encourage their rehabilitation. It will help formulate a set of



-31-
initiatives to protect the environment-friendly rights of the pastoral communities. It would also
build a greater awareness of environmental management issues and enhance awareness of bio-
diversity concems, among the participating communities, the Govemment and collaborating
agencies. In addition, improved management of the ALs would translate into direct economic
gains for the local populations by way of increased fodder and fuelwood supplies in the
medium term. The framework and guidelines for the proposed ALRMIP are based on the
NEAP which was completed with IDA assistance in June 1994. An independent environmental
analysis/ review of this category B project was conducted by consultants appointed by the
Govemment. The review has determined that no negative impacts are anticipated because the
project is designed to use community-based, low-cost, sustainable resource management
techniques. The review also makes a number of suggestions for best practices that would have
a positive impact on the environment and makes recommendations for implementing these
development initiatives, e.g., not to permit settlements in the drought grazing reserves, not to
make populations affected by drought develop dependency on aid. The report is summarized in
Annex 9.
5.15   National Programs & Replicability. ALRMP is part of a larger National Drought
Management Programme, and after several years of relatively ineffectual donor coordination in
the ASALs, the Arid Lands Resource Management Project is providing the bases for effective
coordination between the Bank and other multi-lateral and bilateral donors (EU, Dutch, GTZ).
Not only does ALRMP fit in with Kenya's national strategy for drought management, but it is
also providing a model for delivery of services to some of the poorest communities in Kenya -
through community empowerment and participatory development. In particular, it is providing
a model for service delivery to communities in terms of animal health. The formation of user
associations to manage livestock revolving funds and water user associations should be
considered replicable models or pilots, and promise to fit into overall national strategies. The
project is providing leadership in these remote districts for service delivery which is
participatory and community based. The experiences from project implementation can be used
to modify and improve national animal health programs, particularly with a view to improved
delivery of services in other sparsely populated parts of Kenya.



- 32 -
C. ECONOMIC AND FiNANCIAL ANALYSIS
5.16   The main quantifiable as well as non-monetizeable benefits accruing from  the
implementation of the various project components have been described at some length in paras.
5.5 through 5.15 , above. Since a number of project benefits elude quantification, a rigorous
economic analysis for the project was not feasible. However, the basic cost! benefit analysis
undertaken indicates that, even with modest assumptions about the quantifiable project
benefits, the potential retums from ALRMP will be fairly substantial (Annex 12). In view of
the impact of the recent price reforms in Kenya, the key distortions in the foreign exchange
rate, interest rates, wage rates and product prices have been removed. Thus, economic prices
are expected to be very close to financial prices. A project life of 20 years is assumed for
purposes of benefit-cost streams assessment. Taxes and duties were excluded from the
economic analysis. Also, price contingencies were not reflected in project costs, since the
project benefits were evaluated in constant terms, over the project life.
5.17   The analysis assumes that the main benefits resulting from the project would stem
from: a reduction in livestock mortality rates; a modest price increment or premium for the
improved quality livestock (along with the impact of reduced transportation/ marketing costs);
and, increased annual average off-take rates due to improvements in market linkages. The main
quantifiable benefit from the CD component is expected to result from an improvement in the
incomes of about 15 percent of the AL populations who are expected to set up micro-
enterprises with support from the project. Project investment and recurrent costs related to
each of the three components, were netted out against the benefits streams. Project Support
Unit costs were also included in the analysis. Following project completion, recurrent costs
were assumed to continue at levels essential for sustaining an adequate flow of services related
to the activities initiated under the project. A one time replacement/ rehabilitation expenditure
related to drought management equipment/ infrastructure, and for the rehabilitation/
construction of roads and replacement of construction and repair equipment was also included
in the analysis.
5.18   Based on the foregoing, an ERR of 16.9 percent is calculated for the project. Results
from switching value analysis for an ERR of 10 percent which is the Opportunity Cost of
Capital (OCC) for Kenya, demonstrate that a significant change in benefits or costs, i.e. a 34
percent drop in total (quantifiable) benefits, or a large increase of 51 percent in costs would be
required in order to reduce the ERR to 10 percent. Sensitivity Analysis shows that if benefits
fall or costs increase by 25 percent, the ERR would fall to 12 percent and 13.1 percent,
respectively. Altemately, if benefits increase or costs fall by 25 percent, the ERR would rise to
21.3 percent and 22.6 percent, respectively. An enormous decline of 70 percent in total
benefits would be essential in order for the ERR to drop to zero percent. Conversely, an
exponential increase of 200 percent in total project costs would push the ERR to zero percent.
If all quantifiable benefits envisaged to accrue from the drought mitigation/ management
interventions under ALRMP are excluded from the total benefits stream, the project's ERR
would decline to 10.4 percent; if instead, the benefits from the marketing and infrastructure
improvements under the project are excluded, the ERR drops to 5.3 percent. The exclusion of
the CD benefits reduces the ERR to 14.4 percent. No independent lag analysis of the
project's benefits stream was undertaken, as the impact of droughts on the project's benefits
stream was built into the basic economic analysis model.



- 33 -
Table 5.5: Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
Baseline                                                16.9%
Benefits up 25%                                         21.3%
Costs down 25%                                          22.6%
Benefits down 25%                                       12.0%
Costs up 25%                                            13.1%
Benefits down 70%                                        0%
Costs up 200%                                            0%
D. RISKS
5.19  There are three main risks. First, due to the inadequacy of implementation capacity
and lack of coordination at district and national levels, implementation through districts may not
work effectively. This will have an impact on achieving project benefits. Delayed and/or
inadequate implementation of the drought mitigation interventions will impact adversely on the
immediate well being of AL communities during a drought and will make recovery more
difficult. Poor implementation of the livestock marketing component will also reduce the
financial benefits to the AL populations and delay and/or prevent the economic links with the
rest of the economy being established. To mitigate this risk, the project aims to further adapt
the institutional arrangements and capacity at the district level with the strong coordination role
of the Office of the President which is currently in place under EDRP and generally
functioning adequately. A related issue is that enhanced livestock marketing may be delayed
due to social conflict. Efforts at conflict resolution are already being undertaken by district
administrations. Furthermore, project activities would be first launched in the secure areas and
non-governmental agencies currently involved in conflict resolution efforts would be involved
in the process.
5.20  Second, the project would require a strong team effort to facilitate the participatory
process; large geographical areas with poor means of communication would add to the risk. If
the team effort is inadequate, the community development package in particular will be
affected. However, the adaptation of government delivery systems to the arid lands conditions,
the involvement of non-government agencies with a history of successful experience in the
areas, a strong orientation and training program, and the proposed decentralized institutional
arrangements would help minimize this risk.  In addition, some of the proposed sub-
components will follow successful patterns established in PIDP, EDRP and development
initiatives supported by bilateral and non-governmental agencies.



- 34 -
5.21   Third, flow of funds has been the most intractable issue in Kenya and principally
responsible for unsatisfactory project performance. This would be addressed by a combination
of recent initiatives in several ongoing projects in Kenya such as providing the budget for the
project under one vote of the coordinating ministry and the district funding mechanism
currently in use under EDRP and the Second National Agricultural Extension Project (Credit
2199-KE).
E. SUSTAINABILITY
5.22   The project is sustainable from a fiscal perspective. The Govemment is expected to
contribute around US$ 2.0 million of the project costs over the 6 year implementation period,
which is feasible based on current budgetary allocations (the allocation for EDRP in 1995/96
was KShs. 540 million, equivalent to about US$ 12 million, and KShs. 630 million (US$ 14
million) in 1994/95). The Ministry of Finance has included ALRMFP in the 1995/96 financial
year budget through the provision of a PPF of KShs. 11.4 million or US$ 252,500. The design
and implementation strategy adopted for ALRMP would lend sustainability to project
investments. Drought management will become a long-term Govemment function and the
drought management units will be integrated into the regular Govemment institutional
structure. After the credit closes, the impact of drought management expenditures on the
Government budget would be approximately US$330,000 annually. The O&M allocation for
EDRP in 1995/96 was K. Shs 32.6 million (around US $ 700,000). Communities would also
have an important role in operating drought early warning systems, as well as in mitigation and
recovery efforts. Livestock routes, holding grounds and market yards will be maintained by
the communities and local authorities with negligible demands on the Treasury. Under the
Community Development component the project would provide a one-time capital support to
the community selected micro-projects. These micro-projects will be operated and maintained
by the communities without any further cost to the project or later on to the Government other
than followup training. Sustainability, ensured by community responsibility and commitments
to operate and maintain assets, would be fundamental to the design of microprojects and also a
pre-condition for funding under the ALRMP.



- 35 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS AND ASSURANCES
6.1   During negotiations the following assurances were obtained:
(a)   the National Drought Management Secretariat and the sub-units dealing with
drought management in the eight District Support Units will be integrated into
the regular Government institutional structure,
(b)   the beneficiary communities will contribute at least 30 percent of the cost of the
microproject undertaken,
(c)   the District Works Offices will annually prepare a plan of critical spot
improvements to the roads and execute it after DSG approval, and the project
ftunding for these critical spot improvements will be supplemental allocation to
the normal budget allocation provided by MOPW to the districts for road repair
and maintenance;
(d)   a training plan will be prepared annually before the start of each fiscal year and
furnished to IDA for approval,
(e)    (i) an evaluation of the impact of project interventions will be conducted at
mid-term and in the final year in terms of the design of the evaluation study
finalized at negotiations; (ii) an annual review of the CD component will be
conducted and the review at the end of the year two will be comprehensive;
and (iii) the design and format of the baseline survey will be finalized in
consultation with IDA,
(f)    Government would (i) have the records and accounts of the project, including
those for the Special Accounts and SOEs audited each fiscal year by the
Controller and Auditor General or private auditors appointed by him; and (ii)
submit to IDA the audit reports comprising Project Accounts, Special Account
and SOEs in the agreed format within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
The audit report wil1 include a statement on the adequacy of the accounting
system and internal controls,
(g)   (i) studies for the review of laws and regulations relating to the tenunral and
grazing rights of pastoralists in arid lands will be completed in the second year
of the project; and (ii) a plan of action will be drawn up in consultation with
IDA to implement the recommendations made under these studies in an agreed
time-framre;
(h)   to conduct jointly with IDA a mid-term review of the project between
September 30, 1998 and December 31, 1998; and



- 36-
(i)   the Government and IDA  shall monitor and review the operation and
effectiveness of the district payment mechanism from time to time. If the joint
review concludes that the payment mechanism is not effective, the Govermment
shall, not later than three months after being notified by IDA, introduce and
implement such modification of the mechanism or of the applicable
administrative and financial rules and procedures as may have been agreed
upon with IDA.
6.2   The following were the conditions of Board presentation:
(a)   the receipt of a Letter of Sectoral Policy; and
(b)   the receipt of overdue audits for FY93 (Project Accounts, SOE and Special
Account) for the EDRP   (Cr. 2460-KE) as well as audited statements of
sources and application of funds for funds utilized under EDRP from the Rural
Services Design (Cr. 1974-KE), Second National Extension (Cr. 2199-KE)
and Animal Health Services (CR. 1758-KE) projects.
6.3   The following are the conditions of Credit effectiveness. The Government will:
(a)   enter into a contract, satisfactory to IDA, with a firm to carry out studies for
review of laws and regulations pertaining to tenurial and grazing rights of
pastoral communities;
(b)   fumish to IDA evidence that the following project officers, with qualifications
satisfactory to IDA, have been recruited and started work: National Project
Coordinator, Drought Management Coordinator (Head of DMS), Procurement
Officer, Finance Officer, and at least four District Project Coordinators;
(c)    make appropnrate provision of funds in the budget for year one of the project in
terms of the agreed Annual Work Plan and ensure that these funds are available
for meeting project expenditures as soon as the project becomes effective;
(d)   fumish to IDA evidence that the project's financial management and accounting
system is in place and operating;
(e)   fumish Project Implementation Plan (PIP), satisfactory to IDA;
(f)   fumish terms of service including pay scales of the project staff, and
(g)   fumish overdue audits for FY94 (Project Accounts, SOE and Special Account)
for EDRP (Cr. 2460-KE) as well as audited statements of sources and
application of funds for funds utilized under EDRP from the Rural Services
Design (Cr. 1974-KE), Second National Extension (Cr. 2199-KE) and Animal
Health Services (Cr. 1758-KE) Projects.



- 37 -
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.4   Based on the above conditions and agreements, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of SDRI4.8 million (US$22.0 million equivalent) to the Republic of Kenya,
on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



-38-
Annex 1
Page 1 of T
Tedcgrazns: 'FINANCE'.Nairobi  MINISTRY OF FINANCE      Office of the Miniaer
Tclepbooe: Nairobi 3t88111                                 P.O Baz3000MQ7
When replying pleas" quaE              -
Ref. No EA/FA 62/335/01                             4th May       95
.................................           ................................  19 ...
and da.
Mr. Edward V. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
World Bank
1818E Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear    ( A
Arid Lands Rescurce Management Project            -
-~'  Letter of Sectoral Polic-
B ag<tgroud
The Kenyar. economy is ptedomi.-antly dependent on agricult=ar, -
which e=cloys about 80 percent of the labour force and contributes
more than a cuaar-er or GDP.  Eoweve-, very little high potential
acricultural land tis left in the courtry which is not already being
croc-ped or grazed, and about three-auarters of the country's land
area  is  classified as arid and  semi-arid.   Keavy poculation
pressures  in high potential areas  and  the scarct  of gocd
agricultural land has resulted in the spillover of subsoantial
r.umbers of peocle fror-high potential areas to these marginal
lands.  This has had two imoacts.  Firstly, it has placed heavy
pressures on ecosystems which have historically supported extensive
pastoral populations, and secondly, the low productivity and
potential  of  these areas  has  often  resulted in the further
impoverishment of new residents.  Consequently, these fragile drier
areas of the country are experiencing the adverse environmental
technologies and sedentarization.   Not surprisingly, almost the
entire population of the Arid Lands of about one million,: are
included amongst the poorest and most disadvantaged. sections of
society.   Thus, although the Arid Lands are well-endowedc with.
livestock resources, in the absence of reliable marketing.outletsr
the  full  benefit  of  this  resou-ce  accrues  neithe-. ta. the
pastoralists nor to the consumers iz. the rest of the country'.'.
The Government has had a well-articulated Arid ahdSem        -
arid Lands (ASAL) policy since 1979 when an offLcialdocument set
out the ASAL policy framework for the  .980s.  The mai= hbject:iVCe
..   .   . .  ..-ob~



- 39 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 8
were stated as resource conservation, exploitation of productive
(primarily livestock) potential, development of human resources and
integration of the ASAL into the national economy.  Substantial
emphasis is also placed on drought contingency planning in order to
strengthen  the  coning mechanisms  of  local  communities.   The
Government, in Sessional pacer No. 1 of 1994 on Recovery and
Sustainable Develcoment, has committed itself to the management of
droughts, sustainable resource base management, and improvement of
marketing and infrastructure. it also recognizes an obligation to
crovide the opportunity to all Kenyans to participate fully in the
economic development of the country.
The Arid lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) has been
formulated  as a Joint and particioatory  exercise between the
Government and the Bank to address the key constraints to the
development of the Arid Lands.  Throughout this exercise there has
been a large measure of mutual agreement on various aspects of the
project including alproach, design, components and implementation
arrangements. The long-term development objective of ALRMP is to
reduce widesp-ead poverty and enhance food security in the Arid
Lands by st-rerthening and developing both the capacity of the
local population, and the economic opcortunities available to them;
supporting efforts aimed at increasing incomes via linkages with
the   rest   of   the   ecoromy;    and   creatirg   alternative
employment/ income -generating   oncortunities   for   the   local
copulation.  A short-term objective of the project is to improve
t:he living conditions of Arid Land pcculations throuch enhancing
resilierce to drouchts, and addressing basic community needs such
as drinking water and basic health services for both humans and
livestock.   A related and ecually important objective is the
conservation of the natural resource base.  The proposed project
must be considered to be part of a longer term programme of
investment in arid land develooment, which contributes to achieving
broader objectives OL poverty alleviation, sustainable land use,
and resource conservation.
This longer-ter-m perspective has indeed been central in the
design of some of the main strategies and actions which will be
implemented by the Government (under the aegis of ALRMP and under
other  future  relevant programmes/development initiatives),  to
address the key constraints and issues hindering the development of
the Arid Lands, viz., degradation of the natural resource base,
increasing freauency and intensity of droughts, poor marketing
facilities and inadequate infrastructure leading to lack of
integration of the area with the national economy, inadequate level
of social services available to Arid Land populations, and lack of
an adequate policy framework with regard to pastoralists' rights
e.g. land ownership and grazing rights.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
Strategies and Actions
E.nvironmental and Natural Resources Conservation and Manaaement:
Te- arid areas of Kenya are freauently affected by drought, which,
Cgven the loss of dry-season grazing land and inadequate drought
m-tigation activities over the last forty years, has had adverse
environmental impact. The National Environment Action Plan (NEAP),
completed in June 1994, along with the Environmental Action Plan
.or the ASAL, will provide the basic framework and guidelines for
environmental and natural resources conservation and management
with regard to the arid lands.  Both of these plannina exercises
took the view that, policy and legal issues pertainirng to the arid
lands were inadeauately addressed,  and that initiatives in this
regard needed to be supported by further careful analysis of the
ractors which continue to contribute to the deterioration of the
natural resource base. Under the proposed project a series of in-
depth studies of these factors will be designed and carried out by
Q97.   The findings and recommendations  of these studies, if
accepted  by  Government,  will  guide  policy  and  legislative
fo-rulation in a way which more fully aligns develooment programes
w-ith  sustainable natural resource  management objectives.   The
Project will support a range of other appropriate actions, by
working with pastoralists to identify common resource management
Cobj ectives and strategies, which will bring about improvements in
the management of community resources and fragile environments
t: rough measures such as,  limiting access to c-itical grazing
reserves   and  their  rehabilitation;   reinforcing  traditional
production sys.ems to manage resources; encouraging development of
coth  livestock  and  alternative  (non-livestock  based)  income
cen.erating activities to increase offtake of local output; and
local capacity building measures, to promote mobility thereby
recducing the dependence and pressure on Arid Land resources. These
measures will reduce degradation of the natural resource base, and
possibly reverse it. ..ALRMP would thus strengthen and support
i-.tiatives to better mahage these fragile lands, during droughts
or  normal  periods.   The proposed  project will foster local
carticipation through the design and implementation of community-
driven initiatives to better manage rangelands, critical grazing
reserves and other fragile environments, thereby improving the
longer term viability of pastoral communities. This will also help
generate a greater awareness of environmental management issues
amocng the participating communities, the collaborating Governmental
and Non-Governmental Agencies.
Effective Drouahe Manaaement:   The increasing frequency and
severity, of droughts are adversely affecting the economic and
sccial welfare of the pastoral population in the arid regions. The
G-cvernment has initiated the develooment of an integrated national



- 41 -                              Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
policy on drought management for the Arid Lands. A good start has
already been made in this regard,  recently,  the Government has
strengthened the institutional capacity for drought and relief
ocerations   by  establishing   a   Decartment   of  Relief  and
Rehabilitation (DRR) in the Office of the President.  The ALRMP
will  further bolster Government  efforts  in this direction, by
building umon the activities initiated under the IDA-supcorted
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP).  The Government will
develop and finalize the National Drought Management Policy by the
end  of  Project Year 2, i.e.  l996/97,  and will establish an
institutional structure at the national and local levels to
effectively  manage  all  phases   of  drought,   i.e.,  drought
preparedness, mitigation and recovery.  Other drought management
activities will include, the development and implementation of
Drought Contingency Plans (by 1997) and the completion and adoption
of Drought Contingency manuals (by 1998); and establishment and
operation of an Early Warning System.  A Drought Contingency Fund
w11 also be established, and an Emergency Cereal Reserve will be
set up with the assistance of World Food Programme and other
donors,  prior to the project's Mid Term Review in 1998.   The
strengthening and improvement of customary dry season and drought
grazing reserves, an annual programme of critical spot improvements
to kee? the main district access roads serviceable and the
strengthening of selected populatior centers as Drought mitigation
Centers, will also be undertaken.  Thus, the Government is seeking
to build the cacacity, systems and infrastructure for effective
-rought management.
I-ntearation of the Arid Larlds into the National Economy: The
Government recocnizes that poor marketing facilities and inadequate
infrastructure are major constraints to the well being of arid
lands people, and that the developmenit of the commercial and rural
infrastructure  is especially important for realizing the full
ecoanomic potential ofr-the Arid Lands. The Government thus intends
to undertake measures to address the bottlenecks that impede market
linkages between the Arid Lands and the rest of the country (for
local products), thereby developing outlets for trade and promoting
economic and geographic mobility of the Arid Land population.
Measures aimed at strengthening livestock marketing will include
the rehabilitation and development of market centres, stockroutes
and holding grounds as well as strengthening the Marketing
Information System. A study will be carried out in Project Year 1
to assess the infrastructural recuirements and the modalities of
involving the private sector for the development of the facilities
needed, such as slaughter houses. The Government will also support
local capacity building (primarily through training programmes
under the Community Development compcnent of ALRMP); with a view to
cpening up new economic avenues to the pastoralists and improving



- 42 -
Annex 1
page 5 of 8
their soCio-economic status.  Tn this regard, community initiatiTveS
for developing alte-native or off-farm income generating act.ivities
will also be encouraged.  Government thus intends to unleash the
full development potential of the Arid Lands, by establishing
adequate  marketing  and  infrastructural  facilities  to  improve
markets and strengthen rural-urban links, utilizing a community-
based demand driven approach.
Enhanced level cf Social Services for Arid Land ?oculations:
The Government is cognizant of the fact that almost the entire
coculation of the Arid Lands can be classified as livina below the
poverty line.   Not surprisingly,  social welfare i-ndicators show
that in terms of access to communications, public health, nutrition
and education, the predominantlv pastoralist population of the Arid
Lands, receive only a small fraction of the services available to
the rest of the Kenyan population.   The Government intends to
foster considerable imcrovements in the living conditions of the
Akrid Land populations,  primarily  through the medium o  micro-
projects identified, planned, imclemented and co-financed by the
communities (in conjunction with Non-Governmental Acencies). These
mncro-projects will be conceived and executed within. t:he context of
tne Community Development component of ALRMP, and will help meet
basic social needs, in carticular or women and children, through
the provision of a pacKage of health, nutrition and fccd secu-ity.
Adecuate Policy Framework fo-r Pastoralists' Richts:  Recent
Government surveys on lard use and land tenure svstems in arid
areas have highlighted key issues, including: inadeauacies in the
colicy and institutional framework for sustainable development of
arid lands; the need to take special note of traditional and
customary land use systems; the growing conflict between dirferent
land  use  system  and  technologies;  the  adverse  impact  of
fragmentation and individualization on formerly communal lands, the
need for coordinated land and other natural resource (including
water and grazing lands) utilization practices, etc.  In light of
the above, the Government has set up a task force to review the
cu-rent legal framework countrywide.   The Government will also
carry out studies (primarily with local technical assistance) to
identify the lacuna in the existing laws and regulations pertaining
to the development of the arid lands.   These studies will be
financed from the proceeds of the p-roposed Credit.  One of the
studies to be carried out, utilizing some eight man-months of
primarily local consultants, will undertake a thorough review of
issues pertaining to land tenure, grazing and other rights of the
pastoralists.  Furthermore, the study will propose instruments to
prooerly enforce and protect the rights of the castoralist
communities.    Should  the  existing  legal  framewor'k  be  found
inadecuate, new legal instruments, or amendments to existing laws,



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
to achieve such objectives, will be prooosed.  This review will be
completed within the second year of the project, and a plan of
action will be drawn up in consultation with IDA to implement the
agreed recommendations of this study within a given time-,-ame.
Implementation Arrangements
Project Imnlementation Ancroach:   The bottom-up, community-
based, demand driven approach proposed in the ALRMP is the
foundation of the District Focus  Strategy.   This strategy is
intended   to   decentralize   management   and   implementation
-esponsibilities,  including  planning  and  monitoring,  to  the
district  level.    The Government  attaches  importance  to this
approach which is in line with its policy for developing the ASAL.
In order to ensure that the districts implementing ALRMP have the
necessary planning and operational capacity to carry out their
respective functions, the necessary commensurate administrative and
financial authority have already been delegated to them.  Details
on  the  imclementation arrangements  under  ALRMP are presented
hereunder.
District Financina Arrancements: The Government is promoting
a*n interactive imclementation management culture at all levels of
Government, particularly with regard to the handling of development
interventions.   A number of project management models have been
tried; the Government's view is that the model presently being used
-or EDRP is effective and should be adopted for the ALRIMP with
suitable modifications.  Tn this regard, existing arrangements for
EDRP for making provision in the budget and for transferring
project funds to the district for meeting the costs of district-
based activities will be applied to ALRMP.   These arrangements
involve budgeting for project expenditures under one ministry (the
Office  of  the  President  in  this  case),  Authoritv  to  Incur
Expenditure (AIE) draw% up only in favour of the District Project
Coordinator in each proj4ct district, backed by sufficiently large
cash transfers to each district, to fully meet the recuirements of
project expenditures.
Other   Implementation   Arrancements:          For   effective
imDlementation of the project, the Government has planned several
monitorable actions to be undertaken by the ministries, and the
field agencies in a given timeframe so that all the necessary
institutional arrangements are in place for timely project startup.
These activities are detailed below:
(a)  The Government will establish a National Support Unit, the
Drought Management Secretariat, and the District Support Units
by July 1995 and have in place the core professional staff



44 -                             Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
within this oeriod.  The Government has also drawn uo the
Terms  of Reference  of  the  key  agencies,  which would be
responsible  for  project  management  implementation  (e.g.
Project Steerina Committee, District Steering Committees) and
included these in the Project Implementation Plan (2IP)   A
cony of the Draft PIP was furnished to IDA at negotiations.
The  finalized  PIP  will  be  furnished  prior  to  credit
- effectiveress.
(b)  Appropriate budgetary provisions for the project have been
included in the forward budget and will be made in the printed
estimates  of the  FY  95/96  budget.   The  latte- will be
finalised by the end of June, 1995.
(c)  The  Government  regards  the  training  of  the  community
leaders/members and implementing officials as being crucial
for effective project implementation. Therefore, the training
plan for FY96 has already been drawn up and furnished to IDA
at negotiations.  In future, training clans in resoect of the
next fiscal year will be drawn up annually by March  and
furnished to IDA on a timely basis.
(d)  The Government has acreed to use the established procurement
guidelines of COK for the community micro-projects.  These
procurement  guidelines  are  deemed  to  be  adeouate  for
implementing the community micro-projects to be carried out
under the Communrty Developmen_ and other comoonents of ALRMP.
In  accordance  with  these   procedures,   presently,   all
procurements upto Kenya Shillings two million (US$40,000)
per item may be effected at the district level, without the
intervention of the Central Tender Board. The choice of using
either auotation (local shopping) or open tendering is at the
discretion of the districts.  It is deemed that procurements
for the micro projects under CDP will be adeauately effected
at  district  lever  (utilizing  the  existing  procurement
procedures).
(e)  The initial procurement plan has been drawn up and furnished
to IDA at negotiations.  The Government has also agreed to
utilize the Banks's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement
of Goods and Works, as well as the Standard Form of Contract
for Consultants' Services.
(f)  The key indicators for project implementation as well as the
operational indicators have been discussed and finalized
during negotiations.
(g)  An appropriate financial management and accounting system is



-45-                             Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
in place for the EDRP.  This system will be applied to ALRMP
with  suitable modifications,  and will become operational
before credic effectiveness.
Conclusion
In recent years, the Government of Kenya has undertaken
various policy reforms aimed at promoting equitable and sustainable
economic development in the Arid Lands. It is, however, recognized
that the challenges or achieving widespread poverty reduction,
prudent   natural   resources   management   and   environmental
conservation,  are considerable.   The challen2ge is rooted in the
longer term nature of the problem, and the search for substantive
and effective solutions.   The implementation of the programme
described above must be seen to be part of a broader framework for
action in the Arid Lands, promoting sustainable and broad-based
economic growth, poverty reduction, and environmental management.
The Government also believes that the proposed ALRMP and other
cdonor-assisted programmes, will play an important role in
facilitating the implementation of critically needed policy reforms
with a view to promoting economic and geographic mobility of the
Arid Land population over the longer term. The Government is keen
to continue working with the Bank to ensure that the proposed
project becomes effective at the earliest opportunity, and that it
4s implemented successfully.
Yours
Jo S.
Hon.  W.        .    avaa'
MINISTER FOR FINANCE



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page I of 3
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Past and Ongoing Programs in the Area
1.    Although a number of multilateral and bilateral development projects have been introduced in
ASALs in the last two decades, with the exception of a few these have largely focussed on the
relatively better off semi-arid lands. The only major investment effort supported by IDA in the arid
lands is the EDRP which is being implemented in four arid districts, namely Mandera. Marsabit,
Turkana and Tana River (extended to Wajir district during the Mid-term Review). The project
objective is to assist the ASAL populations affected by the 1992 drought to begin a sustainable
recovery process. The project components include agriculture, livestock, drought management and
environment, infrastructure, water management, health services and capacity building. The project
became effective in April 1993 and at mid-term (April 1994) the project had disbursed approximately
US$9.6 million and committed another US$9.2 million. Under the project financing plan IDA will
provide a total assistance of US$27.25 million which includes US$7.25 million diverted for use by
EDRP from three IDA-supported Credits in Kenya. The project after a slow start has gained
momentum and the implementation of various project activities, with the exception of the
infrastructure component, is satisfactory. EDRP has initiated several steps, particularly after re-
structuring during the mid-term review, for securing the objectives that the project investments are
sustainable and benefits reach the target populations. Community mobilization and participation as
appropriate would be a necessary prerequisite for project investments particularly in community
oriented development interventions. The rehabilitated dams, water pans and boreholes in Mandera
and Marsabit districts have been handed over to communities for operation and management. The
animal health component has carried out a vaccination campaign and created a revolving fund for
regular replenishment of these stocks in the future. The drought management component has begun
the process of establishing drought monitoring systems in three districts. These activities would
dovetail into the ALRMP.
2.    The second important project is the European Union (EU)-funded Kenya Livestock
Development Program (KLDP) which mainly financed livestock infrastructure, a nucleus of extension
services, a water component to rehabilitate and establish boreholes and water troughs for the
livestock. A recent evaluation study, however, rates the project at mid-term as not having achieved
its objectives. The report ascribes this failure to inadequacies in preparation and appraisal followed by
poor implementation. The water rehabilitation component, however, was a success in one district and
the establishment of water user associations was a notable achievement. The evaluation study has a
word of advice on projects implemented with community participation:
Several points must be acknowledged in advance when trying to implement
community-led microprojects. Most importantly, all parties have to recognize and
resist the temptation to try to do too much, too fast. Microprojects which are most
likely to succeed are those based on what has succeeded in that type of place, in the
past (rather than on "good ideas"); involve several rounds of negotiations between
concerned parties, (rather than one party dictating the pace of discussion); and
which spring from the needs of the beneficiaries rather than from assumptions by



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
outsiders of what communities need. Furthermore, microprojects must be small in
scale, to be manageable.
3.     The Pastoralist Integrated Development Project (PIDP), funded by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) and executed by the Bank on their behalf, is a small scale investment
program focussing on the communities' need for drinking water for humans and livestock. Using this
as an entry point, it promotes several other community-led development interventions; e.g. sanitary
latrines, energy efficient cooking, hygiene and nutrition. Currently it is the leading multi-lateral
project to apply a participatory approach to implementation. The project covers three arid districts
(Wajir, Marsabit and Mandera) and two semi-arid districts (Laikipia and Baringo). In the Laikipia
and Marsabit districts, NGOs are co-financiers and administer the program in the field. Its
implementation strategy promotes a high degree of self-reliance by providing external financial
assistance only as a help of last resort. The program in Laikipia is implemented by cohesive
women's self-help associations bound together by a legal agreement obliging each member to fulfil
her share of contribution in cash, kind and labor until project completion. The results on the ground
are satisfactory.
4.    In three arid districts (Mandera, Wajir, Garissa) the UNICEF supported Nomadic Primary
Health Care Project (NPHC) has started well and underscores the importance of community-based
approaches. The program is coordinated by the District Inter-sectoral Committee (includes NGOs and
multi-sectoral agencies) and seeks to establish Village Inter-sectoral Committees for the day to day
management of local components and funds. The prograrn concentrates on health and nutrition, water
and livestock, environmental resources and education. Its main focus is the nomadic population and,
working through traditional structures, it lays major emphasis on the inter-linkages between the
sectors.
5.    The Drought Management Project (DMP) funded by the Netherlands targets four arid districts
(Turkana, Marsabit, Isiolo and Samburu) and supports the establishment of a drought monitoring
system, including a Drought Management System (DMS). A regional center has been established in
Samburu which coordinates the activities of the district teams and produces early warning bulletins
and literature for the administration and public. The program does not have formal institutional
linkages with the district administration, and that has raised questions about the integration of the
EWS into the national decision making process. The government is negotiating with the Dutch and
the WFP an extension of the DMP for four more years in these districts. After extension the DMP is
expected to finance the costs of vehicles and equipment,EWS operations, training, civil works and
non-salary operating costs of the program in these districts. However, DMP will utilize the district
and national institutional arrangement to be created under the ARLMP for project management.
6.     Other small bilateral programs include the Swedish International Development Agency (Water
and Soil Conservation), the African Muslim Agency (Water and Conservation); Norwegian Aid
(Cooperatives), Irish Concern (Sanitation), and Danish International Development Agency (Rural
Development Fund) used to assist schools, water and health components and local crafts.
7.     Besides these multilateral and bilateral projects, a number of small focussed projects to
address community needs have been undertaken by several NGOs; most with external financing.
Community participation is a common feature of these development interventions. The NGO-assisted



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
projects are generally demand driven and strive to establish community ownership. Notable projects
and interventions by NGOs are: the Farm Africa's Camel Development Project in Samburu and
Marsabit; Emergency Pastoralist Assistance Group's (EPAG) project in Mandera for livestock
marketing, health care and restocking; Oxfam assisted programn for livestock veterinary care in
Turkana; Catholic Relief Service funded activities in community health and water projects in Tana
River; income-generating and restocking activities in Isiolo promoted by Catholic Mission Garba
Tula; Catholic Church sponsored child health care program in Turkana; and School Construction and
Equipment Program operated by the Tenrikyo Society (Japan) in Garissa.
8.    Reviews of the initiatives supported by donors and non-governmental agencies have identified
a number of constraints faced by development interventions in the ALs. These include: (a) inadequate
implementation capacity in the central government and in the districts; (b) project complexity; (c) top-
down approach and lack of beneficiary involvement; (d) inadequate and/or untimely release of both
foreign and counterpart funds; (e) procurement delays; (f) lack of project ownership; and (g)
inadequate preparation for project activities and unrealistic targets.



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page I of 8
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DROUGHT MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Introduction
1.    The Drought Monitoring Component of the Arid Lands Resource Management Project,
following the work of IDA-supported Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP), would establish
an institutional structure at the national and local levels to effectively manage all phases of drought;
i.e. drought preparedness, mitigation, and recovery. The component consists of three parts:
*     Establishment of a National Structure to enact policies and carry out operational
responsibilities for drought management, both within the arid lands and countrywide.
This structure would become a permanent part of the Department of Relief and
Rehabilitation.
*     Establishment of District Structures: for each of the eight project districts, a District
Project Support Unit would be created containing capacity for drought management.
*     Support to drought mitigation interventions and post-drought recovery.
Background
2.    Droughts occur in the arid lands of Kenya periodically and with variable intensity. More
severe droughts occur every eight to ten years while the less severe ones occur at intervals of three to
four years. A few prolonged droughts (e.g. 1964-65, 1984-85 and 1991-93) led to famnine conditions
in some parts of the country, particularly in the arid lands. In recent years, there were severe
droughts in Kenya in 1960-61, 1964-65, 1974-75, 1979-80, 1984-85 and 1991-93. In the 1980s
minor droughts occurred in 1983, 1987 and 1989.
3.    Droughts result in considerable social and economic disruption due to loss of livestock and
other food production, and make people, particularly the poor (women and children) very vulnerable.
During the severe drought of 1984-85, maize production declined by 30 percent and bean production
by 70 percent. Livestock population declined by 40 percent. During the drought of 1990, crop
output fell by 18 percent, and further declined by 14 percent in 1991. Coffee production declined by
22 percent. Cattle slaughters increased by over 10 percent and 17 percent during 1990 and 1991
respectively, while slaughter of sheep and goats went up by 21 percent and 12 percent respectively.
Mortality rates of cattle during the droughts of 1991-93 were as high as 40 percent.
4.    The herding practices of pastoralists in the arid lands are well adapted to drought conditions.
Diversified herds are divided into small units for mobility to gain access to variable water and fodder
resources; exchange of animals through kinship, marriage and friendship ties keep animals dispersed
over a wide area, and helps rebuild herds after losses from drought. These coping mechanisms,
however, are being undermined by population growth, increasing sendentarization around fixed water
points and the loss of dry season grazing areas to other groups and uses. Disruptions in livestock



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
marketing caused by insecurity have further impoverished pastoralists. Losses of livestock during
droughts caused newly destitute pastoralists to migrate to rural and urban centers in search of food aid
and employment, thereby further putting pressure on the limited infrastructure and grazing land in
these centers.
5.    Thus far, the national response to drought has largely been in terms of adhoc emergency food
assistance. Instead of drought management, the focus has been on relief food supply, special feeding
programs, water supply and mobile health delivery. Long-term management has been confined to
providing food security through price stabilization policies, food subsidies, food distribution,
rehabilitation and provision of additional water sources and supplementary health programs. These
efforts lack integration and as a long- term strategy for drought management, they are not sustainable.
6.     Although the Government has formulated a draft drought contingency plan (1992) and a few
other related policy instrumentsl/, none of these has been formally adopted or operationalized.
Projects like the EDRP and the Dutch-funded Drought Management Project have yielded positive
lessons for drought forecasting and drought mitigation and have laid the groundwork for further
action. However, a comprehensive national drought management policy, with institutional structures
and procedures at the national and district level for effectively dealing with all phases of drought ( e.g
contingency plans, drought manuals) are still missing. The drought management component of the
ALRMP will fill in these missing links.
Goal and Objectives
7.    The overall goal of the Drought Management Component is to institutionalize the management
of drought in Kenya into the planning and decision-making processes of the Government in co-
operation with the arid lands communities. This will facilitate the effective planning, progranmming,
and disbursement of resources to the districts at the appropriate time. The component shall evolve
into a permanent mechanism for coordination of drought-related activities between Government,
donors, NGOs and local communities. Participation by pastoral communities will guide the specific
priorities for an area before an intervention. The final product will be a national drought management
system with a sustainable capacity to cope with drought situations.
8.    To achieve the goals, the Drought Management component has the following objectives:
*     To establish a Drought Management System, comprising policy, institutional
structures and capacity to cope with drought at national, district and community levels
on an integrated and sustainable basis.
*     To develop districts as the basic units of drought management by strengthening their
capacity for drought forecasting and preparedness; mitigation of impact; and
coordinated recovery.
1/ National Food Security (Sessional Paper No. 4, 1981), Sustainable Resources Management (Sessional Paper
No. 1, 1986), Development Policy for ASAL, 1992 and Environmental Action Plan for
ASAL, 1992.



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
*     To establish a clear institutional structure for co-ordinating multi-disciplinary activities
amongst various actors involved both within the Government and outside.
*     To enable communities to actively participate in drought preparedness, intervention
and recovery.
Approach
9.    The Drought Management component will build on the institutional structure piloted by the
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP), under the Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
(DRR), in the Office of the President. It will underscore the economic rationality of arid lands people
for better use of their limited natural resource endowment through pastoralism, and will further build
on the strengths of their traditional drought coping mechanisms through community participation and
training.
Implementing Arrangements
(a) National Level
10.   At the national level, the project will establish a Drought Management Secretariat (DMS)
under the Department of Relief and Rehabilitation in the Office of the President. The DMS will carry
out Government's policy and operational responsibilities for drought management. DMS will at the
initial stage of the program will include one incremental professional staff: a Drought Monitoring
Officer, with support staff to include a data analyst/secretary. The DMS will be housed at the
Drought Management Center (DMC) which will have a Geographical Information System (GIS)
facility. A provision has been provided for short term technical assistance for the preparation of
manuals and contingency plans.
11.   The DMS will perform two distinct functions:
*     the development of a national policy on drought management, the preparation of
national drought manuals and contingency plans; supervising the preparation of a
model district drought manual and model district drought contingency plan; and
supervising the preparation of drought manuals and district contingency plans for the
target districts; and the establishment of an Drought Monitoring System.
*     Strategic planning and management of droughts and famines in the arid lands,
including integration of relief operations with drought management, and later, after
preparatory work and suitable strengthening, drought management country-wide.
12.   The DMS will have the overall responsibility for drought management activities described in
the project. It will coordinate drought management activities outside the project area and will be
responsible for preparation of model district drought manuals, model district contingency plans, and
national drought manual and national contingency plan. The drought monitoring officer will guide the
in the preparation of district drought manuals and district contingency plans.



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
13.   The DMS will prepare and submit drought assessment reports to NRRCC and after obtaining
its approval, advise the Government to declare drought in the affected area. After formal declaration
of drought by the Government, various related Ministries of the Government and the DSUs will
undertake appropriate drought mitigation and recovery activities which are laid down in the drought
manual and included in the contingency plan.
(b) The District Structure
14.   In all project districts, a District Support Unit (DSU) will be created. In Turkana, the
existing Drought Contingency Planning Unit (TDCPU) will be renamed. The drought management
capacity will be created within the DSU. The District Project Coordinator (DPC) will also function
as the principal drought management officer and will be assisted by a Drought Monitoring Officer.
The DSU will be responsible for strategic planning (including development of district contingency
plan and district manual), periodic updating of the manual and, during droughts, act as the chief
operations officer for drought mitigation. It will operate the Drought Monitoring System (DMS),
prepare periodical drought forecasts based on analysis of the data gathered through the EWS, and
compile the inception report on impending droughts for the consideration of the DRRC. The DRRC
would record its recommendations to the DRR in OP for declaring a district or a part of a district
drought-affected. Such declaration by the Government would trigger implementation of the district
contingency plan in terms of the process and procedures set out in the district drought manual. The
district staff for drought management will be housed in the Drought Management Center (DMC),
equipped with computer and radio communication facilities. The activities of the DSU for drought
management are summarized below:
*     Establish and operate the drought Drought Monitoring System (DMS).
*     Prepare district drought manual and district contingency plan following the model
developed by DMS.
*     Assess drought situations following the established process and update the contingency
plans.
*     Take steps for declaration of drought in terms of the process established
under the district drought manual.
*     Plan and implement drought mitigation and recovery interventions.
*     Appraise, monitor and evaluate the above.
Drought Contingency Fund and Emergency Cereal Reserve
15.   As part of the district drought contingency plan, a Drought Contingency Fund would be
established at the national level for the target districts, to be utilized for immediate drought mitigation
interventions. The fund would cover activities such as health and nutritional support to the vulnerable
groups; operation of emergency stock routes for livestock evacuation and drought grazing reserves;



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
emergency veterinary campaigns for disease control to avoid large-scale livestock deaths; as well as
other activities approved under the national or district contingency plans. An Emergency Cereal
Reserve of about 15,000 metric tons for the target districts, created with the support of the donor
agencies, will maintain stocks for about one month supply for emergency relief feeding and for
limited food-for-work (FFW) interventions. The stocks will be maintained by the National Cereals
and Produce Board (or any other agency designated by the Government) at the level of 2000 metric
tons for a district (1000 metric tons for Isiolo). The project will bear limited costs for management
of the Emergency Cereal Reserve. The District Contingency Fund and the Emergency Cereal
Reserve will equip the districts to handle the first critical phase of drought with local resources, thus
reducing widespread losses and disease, until further support can be mobilized. Modalities for
accessing the fund and for the establishment of the Drought Contingency Fund and Emergency Cereal
Reserve will be worked out during thefirst year of the project. These facilities will be operational by
the time of mid- term review.
Drought Mitigation Interventions
16.   Drought mitigation interventions will be planned and implemented at the district level, with
support and supervision from the DMS. Activities to support interventions will include:
funding the civil works, equipment and technical assistance to develop capacities of
selected population centers where pastoralists migrate in large numbers during
distress, to be effective drought mitigation centers. A minimum level of water, health
and other common facilities will be maintained. Facility profiles of these centers will
be developed to record and analyze the existing situation, and plans to strengthen
minimum levels of infrastructure (water, health and veterinary facilities) for increased
demands during drought will be prepared.
*     surveys, in consultation with local communities, of the rangelands in the target
districts to identify potential drought grazing reserves. The identified areas will be
demarcated and gazetted, and appropriate water resources developed where needed.
Local communities will manage these facilities and be responsible for their protection
and maintenance. They will be trained for these tasks, as required. These activities
will be closely coordinated with the Marketing component.
*     provision of spares and repairs for equipment, tools, and associated operating costs of
the District Works Office (DWO) in order to strengthen their road maintenance
capacity and to carry out spot improvement of important roads in the district, using,
as far as possible, low-cost labor-intensive technologies. Assistance under the project
would fit within the Government's evolving policy on road maintenance under the
"Roads 2000" program. The DWO will, in close coordination with DSU, prepare a
shelf of labor- intensive road maintenance projects that can be carried out under FFW
arrangements during drought periods. The Drought Management Center and the
DWO will liaise closely in the management of these activities. It is expected that all
spot improvement proposals initiated by DWO (in consultation and close co-ordination
with DSU) will be cleared by the District Steering Group (DSG). The DSU would



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
supervise the implementation of these works to see that these conform to the plans and
strategy approved by the DSG.
Monitoring and Evaluation
17.   Project monitoring at regular intervals will include the timely submission of progress reports
and workplans. The following reports will be prepared by the Drought Management Coordinator:
*     Quarterly Progress Reports on the implementation of annual work plans will be
submitted indicating progress made and shortcomings or obstacles faced and stating
remedial actions required to improve progress.
*     Annual Progress Reports will be submitted to NRRCC indicating project
achievements and shortfalls, if any, and the activities included in the next annual work
plan.
*     Mid-Tern Report, following the mid-term review, will highlight progress made in
achievement of key performance indicators, shortfalls, if any, and lessons learned for
future project implementation. Adjustments and revisions including a revised project
estimate, will be included.
*     The Final Report will be prepared at the termination of the project. The report will
highlight physical, social and financial achievements and organizational and process
constraints. It will make recommendations for future action.
Monitoring Indicators
18.   The activities of the Drought Management component with an approximate time sequence for
their completion are given in the attached Table.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
TABLE: Implementation Schedule
OUTPUT /ACTIVITY                                               PYO          PYl           PY2             PY3           PY4          PY5            PY6
[ ________________________________________________________  J  1994/95        1995/96        l1996/97     |  1997/98       1998/99      1999/2000      2000/2001
1 0 NATIONAL DROUGIIT POLICY DEVELOPED
1.1 draft of policy
1.2 conduct workshop for draft policy
1.3 finalize and print policy
2.0 INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE ESTABLISHED
2.1 Recruit the DMS staff
2.2 Procure and equip the NDMC                                                                                                                                         t
2.3 Operationalize the national data management (GIS)                            _n
2.4 Train DMS, NRRCC and ALRMP-PMU staff
2.5 Recruit DSUs staff
2.6 Procure and equip DSUs
2.7 Construct DDMCs
2.8 Train DSU and DRRC staff
3.0 OPERATIONAL MANUALS PREPARED
3.1 Prepare the National Drought Manual and Contingency Plan
3.2 Prepare a model District Drought Manual and Contingency
Plan
3 3 Prepare District Drought/Contingency Plans



Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
Output / Activity                                                     PY1          PYI           PY2            PY3         | PY4                           PY6
1994/9S     1995/96       1996/97         1997/9       1998gg9       1999/2000       2020 
4.0     RELIEF OPERATIONS INTEGRATED IN DROUGHT
MANAGEMENT
4.1      Prepare and update training materials for FFW/CFW
4.2      Train NRRCC, DRRCC, DRRCs and Div.RRCs in FFW  and                                                        -
CFW
5.0   DROUGHT FORECASTING AND PREPAREDNESS
ESTABLISHED
5.1     Establish and operate EWS
5.2     Prepare shelf-projects and update
5.3     Construct and equip cereal banks
5.4     Expand and improve waler, health and road services
5.5     Create grazing reserves and nmanagement committees
5.6     Train communities and staff
5.7     Prepare mitigating strategies with communities
5.8     Carry out strategic management planning
5.9     Supervise and monitor district activities
5.10    Prepare bulletins
5.11    Setup international meetings for shelter reserves



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MARKETING AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
Introduction
1.    The broadest justification for a Marketing Component in the Arid Lands Resource
Management Project is the near total dependence on livestock of the pastoralist commnunities for their
livelihood and social life. Exchanging animal products for cash and kind is part of the pastoral
production system. In addition to benefitting pastoralists, efficient marketing of livestock from the
arid lands would benefit the national economy. Over the last 10 years, an average livestock offtake
figures for the arid lands were 7.0 percent for cattle, 8.0 percent for sheep and goats and about 1.5
percent for camels. If the current marketing system were improved, these figures could conservatively
be raised and sustained at approximately 11 percent, 25 percent and 3 percent respectively. Also
when pastoralists are able to achieve a measure of economic resilience, the high costs of providing
extensive food aid can be avoided. Finally, pastoralism is a productive use of resources in the arid
lands which makes use of skills developed over a lifetime. In many cases, it is the only system that
can convert the arid land resources of fodder and water into goods that are directly usable by man.
This is a positive alternative to competing for unskilled jobs in the overcrowded cities.
2.    Over the years a number of centrally-planned projects for improving the livestock marketing
system have been implemented in Kenya with little success. The reason for the failure is that the
pastoralists were not actively involved in making the critical decisions. It is now realized that for
these development initiatives to succeed the pastoralists should actively participate in decisions that
affect their lives. This would be the basic approach to be adopted in implementing the Marketing
component under the ALRMP. Communities will identify their most urgent marketing-related issues
and participate in finding solutions that reflect their experience. They will be encouraged to form
legal entities which will be assisted with funds to complement their own efforts. Communities and
user-groups will have a central role in identifying, planning and, where feasible, implementing the
development initiatives under this component.
Goal and objectives
3.    The goal of the Marketing Component of the ALRMP is to address the bottlenecks that
impede market linkages between the Arid Lands and the rest of the economy by increasing the
number and efficiency of existing outlets for range livestock products. To achieve this goal the
Marketing component will pursue the following objectives:
*     To enable pastoralists to set the priorities of the activities supported under the
Marketing component.
*     To establish a marketing system that enables pastoralists to move their livestock and
sell them when and where they want at competitive prices.



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
*      To secure and rehabilitate or create the infrastructure that is essential to the movement
of livestock - such as along the trekking routes, holding facilities and market yards at
the selling points.
*      To establish a livestock marketing-information system that will improve access to
market information and facilitate efficient decision-making regarding sale and
purchase of livestock by producers, traders and butchers in Kenyan markets.
*      To address and help resolve the issues of insecurity in the Arid Lands that hamper the
movement of livestock. Best practices for conflict resolution will be compiled and fora
established to resolve outstanding issues.
*      To improve the marketing and quality of hides and skins through training and support
to community groups for the establishment of community-owned drying sheds
(bandas).
*      To create an enabling environment for private-sector investments in facilities and for
itinerant trade by identifying and assisting small traders, butchers, and craftsmen at
the community level.
Current Status of Livestock Marketing
4.     Until 1984, the Livestock Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock
Development and Marketing, along with the Kenya Meat Commission, held a livestock marketing
monopoly in the Arid Lands. Only permits to take livestock to KMC were issued from Northern
Kenya, and LMD was the sole dealer in immatures. This led to the arbitrary fixing of producer
prices, long delays in payment to producers, and large operating losses which were borne by the tax
payers. Under the current initiatives of the Government, livestock marketing has been liberalized and
the role of LMD of the Ministry of Agriculture is now restricted to providing marketing information.
Further KMC has been re-structured and will compete on an equal footing with the private sector.
5.     To date most terminal markets are characterized by artificial gluts and shortages created by
lack of information and the inability of traders, who supply the markets from diverse places all over
East Africa, to know what is going on in other parts of the marketing system. This sends prices on a
roller coaster and makes trading in livestock a speculative exercise. Traders increase their risk
premiums to cover anticipated losses related to price fluctuations. This in turn reduces the price
producers get. For example when Nairobi slaughterhouses face a surplus and prices fall, traders hold
their livestock in Marsabit to avoid making losses. The LMD and GTZ are collaborating to supply
market information to Marsabit traders. Reports indicate that as a result of this information, livestock
originally destined for Ethiopia have at times been re-directed to the Dagoretti and Dandora
slaughterhouses in Nairobi and fetched higher prices.
6.     Lack of livestock-marketing related infrastructure, combined with growing insecurity linked to
civil strife in neighboring countries, has reduced both the number of livestock traders and the
numbers of livestock trekked by drovers. Livestock traders are also involved in retail and wholesale
commerce. In the more distant parts of the country the local livestock traders face only token



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
competition and are able to literally dictate prices of goods and livestock. These traders are often the
sole buyer of the pastoralists' livestock products and the sole seller of the essential grains, clothing,
sugar and tobacco that are bought with the proceeds.
7.     Some cross-border trade continues. Communities in Mandera trade with neighboring
communities in Somalia and Ethiopia; the Gabbra and Boran communities in Marsabit trade their
camels in Ethiopia and parts of Somalia while the Turkana seem to be sending most of their cattle to
Uganda and Sudan. These areas have also served as important sanctuaries for Kenyan livestock in
times of drought. Cross border trade plays an important price stabilizing role. On the positive side,
swings that one might expect from the large variations in climatic and draught conditions are
lessened. On the negative side, eradication of some of the most dangerous diseases like CBPP is
almost impossible. Vaccination measures taken on the Kenyan side are quickly negated when
unprotected animals cross the border.



- 60 -
Annex S
Pagel of 2
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE
The objective of the Community Development Component is to increase the communities
capacities to sustain and develop their livelihoods by dealing with drought cycles in an
effective way. The Participatory Learning for Action (PLA) approach will be used to
achieve this objective.
PARTICIPATORY LEARNING FOR ACTION
The PLA method is the main tool, tested under the previous project, to assure community
ownership of activities to be undertaken and responsiveness of line ministries to the
communities' needs and demands. This method is an improvement upon the Participatory
Rural Appraisal technique, and focuses in particular on the elaboration of action plans by the
community members and successful completion of agreed actions.
Objectives
PLA has three main objectives:
1. Confirmation of the assessment of what the communities consider to be their priorities in
order to generate commitment by communities and line ministries to engage in activities which
satisfy those priorities;
2. Assist communities to develop their own action plans for implementation; and
3. Contribute to the implementation of priority actions within those plans.
Methodology
The techniques used to achieve these objectives were originally designed to enable effective
communication between illiterate communities and uninformed professionals. The purpose of
these technique was for community members and professionals to analyze together the
available resources and priority development issues in order to produce a community action
plan. Examples of tools in this process include social mapping, wealth ranking, institutional
analysis, problem ranking and analysis. To go beyond the mere analysis of the existing
situation, and to create a results-oriented momentum within the communities, additional
techniques were incorporated which involve group management, leadership styles and conflict
resolution as a prerequisite to implementation of action plans.
The action plans resulting from the PLA exercises often involve the implementation of
improved water supply, the establishment of revolving drug funds, or other income generating



- 61 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
activities. To assure full ownership of the communities in any activity involving physical inputs,
the principal of joint action will be upheld with the communities contributing at least a
minimum of 30% and the remaining 70% being contributed by line ministries, collaborating
agencies and/or ALRMP. The provision of any physical inputs as well as the follow-up
training and support to community members to successfully manage and implement their action
plan is part and parcel of the mandate of the respective line ministries.
In order to carry out the PLA exercises, two teams per district will go through the process with
four communities per year each. These teams will be composed of technical staff of the
respective line ministries involved (MOALDM, MLRRWD, MOH, and others as appropriate)
and from collaborating agencies. By doing so, the respective line ministries can not only
provide services to the particular partner community involved in the exercise, but can also
correct their assessment of what the priority needs and demands from the communities are.
Training
Two main types of training will be required to fully operationalize the PLA methodology:
training of staff, and training of community leaders.
The training of staff comprises (a) an orientation session where staff are familiarized with the
objectives and methodologies of PLA in the context of the ALRMP; (b) three sessions of eight
days residential training to acquire full understanding of the respective techniques involved;
and (c) three sessions of one week practical exercises in a specific nomadic community.
Successful completion of this training is a prerequisite for staff to participate in the PLA teams.
Other staff, as well as decision makers at the district and national level will also participate in
this training.
Training of community leaders would be provided by the different PLA teams in each of the
districts. The objective of this training is to enhance the communities' capacity to carry out
independently the PLA exercises so as to come to well defined and fully owned action plans.
Community leaders would be trained during three sessions of one week each, involving mainly
practical exercises, backed-up with adapted theoretical explanations.
The detailed training plan for the sessions mentioned above will be part of the PIP.



- 62 -                         AAnnex 6
Page I of 7
Detailed Implementation and Management Arrangements
Building on the experietice acquired under the previous EDRP. the ALRMIP will (a)
provide a system and policy for effective drought managemernt; and (b) strengthen the
communities' capacity to deal with further droughts. In order to assure long term
sustainability, any action or intervention Will be designed to be as cost effective as possible,
to be community based, and to be implemented through the relevant iine ministries and
collaborating agencies.
To be successful however, the line ministries will have to adapt their way of operating to
the particularities of the Arid Lands (the nomadic character of a large percentage of the
population, the distances between communities, the continuing effects of the 1993 drought,
etc.). They will also need strong support and guidance from the National Support UJnit and
the District Coordinators in the Office of the P esident to meet this challenge The Ministry
of Agriculture, Livestock Development and MarketIng, the Ministry of L-and Reclanmation,
Regional and Water Development, and the Ministry of Health have made, during project
preparation, a broad outline of the adaptations to be made to their respective ways of
operating in order to become more effective in their response to the communities' needs
and demands. Other ministries such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Public
Works may go through the same exercise if the need arises in the Course of project
implementation. During the respective district launching workshops, the staff of each line
department will examine how the different frameworks for action can be best implemented,
taking the local conditions into account. Yearly f1olloW-up workshops will be organized in
each district to critically examine and improve the effectiveness of the current way of
operating.
A. Office of the President - Departinent for Relief and Rehabilitation
The Department for Relief and Rehabilitation (DRR) is responsible for the overall
implementation of the ALRMP. To this effect, a National Support Unit (NSU) within the
DRR is in charge of day to day management and follow-up of the program. More in
particular, the NSSIJ is responsible for (a) the coordination of the ALRMP; (b) the monthly
publication of national and district drought statLis reports,  (c) the support and supervision to
the training initiatives at the district leveil and (d) development and sustainance of drought
contingency plans and response mechanisms The NSU is headed by the National Prograrn
Coordinator (NPC), who reports to the Director of Programs in the Office of the President,
and comprises a drought monitoring officer (DM10), a training officer (TO), and a support
unit (accounts officef, supplies officer, drivers, secretaries, and messenger). The
professional staff in the NSU will spend most of their time in the field to assist the
implementation of the program in the ALs districts. They will give guidance to the District
Program Coordinators, and will support the respective line departments with the field
implementation of their activities. In particular, the NSU members will assure the proper
follow-up for the recommendations made by the PSC
The District Program Coordinator (DPC) reports to the NPC in the Office of the President
and at the district level to the District Commissioner   The DPC  has two major
responsibilities: (a) to provide critical feed back regardinig the efficiency of the respective
line ministries' field operations, as well as guidance and support needed to plan and
implement their programr awd (b) the monthly publication of' the drought bulletin It is



6 63 --                       Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
considered to be of crucial importance for the success of the program that the line ministries
would have strong and continuous external support from the DPC. In each distnrct, the DPC
will be assisted by a support unit comprising a supplies assistant, an accounts assistant, and
three support staff (driver, secretary, messenger). The DPC and the unit will be equipped
with a 4x4 vehicle and 1w o motor-cycles.
B. Ministry of Xgriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing
I.     Animal health and livestock production
To assure optimal coverage in the most cost effective way, the animal health department
will work through Community Aninal Health Workers (CAHWs) who will be identified by
and work within each livestock users association. Each district will have a total of about
1(00 CAHWs. The CAl iWs will (a) sell basic animal drugs in their community, (b) provide
first line animal healthi care, and kc) serve as 'contact pastoralists" for the dissemination of
technical nmessages related to the imiprovement of the herders' capacity to manage their
livestock. 'I'hese messag,es A1i include issues such as disease prevention, vaccination,
husbandry practices such as control of parasites, etc The CAHWs will draw a revenue
from the sales of druos
Initial training will be provided to Lhe CAI-IWs in two stages: a one week residential
training course followed three months later by, a three dav refreshet course.
Once per month, the CAHVWs will have the possibility to meet wAith the front line staff
(FLS) of the department of veterinary services at a well defined meeting point (e.g. the
drug store of the livestock users association). Because of the existing distances between the
communities, their continuous rmovement, and the budgetary constraints, it is not possible
for the FLS to m1eet easch of the ('AIT's in their o"n homestead. During the monthly
meetings. the FLS will train the CAl lWs on relevant technical messages After the meeting,
the FLS and the CAHWs decide if and where the FLS should visit any particular
commulity.
One FLS can support about 10 CAHWs. There will be a total of' about 10 FLS in each
district who 'wlll be stationed at the divisional level and who wIIl be equipped with
motorcycles. It is not yet clear which altemative should be used in those cases where
motorcycles are not a practical means of transportation
Once every three months, the FL.S will participate in a training session. This session will be
organized by the Disrrict Veterinary Officer (DVO) with the participation of the District
Livestock ProduLctioni Officer (DLPO). The team of SMS in the Livestock Production
Departmeni (about three per district) will be responsible for the identification of technical
messages related to livestock production, and for the training of the FLS during these
sessions In addition, teach F LS will receive a visit from the DVO and the DLPO once every
quarter to examine any constraints he/she may encounter in his/her work.
In order to address problems related to the management of the herds wherefore solutions
cannot be found at the community level or by the technicians, links with research
institutions - KARI ajnd any other source of knowledge - would be established. Modalities
on how this would be done will be worked out during imiplementation.
Vaccination is part and parcel of the mandate of the department of veterinary services. It is
understood however that the current system  of vaccination is not performing to full



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
satisfaction. To increase coverage and to minimrize costs, the CAHWs will be involved as
active partners in the vaccination campaigns. Nevertheless, strengthening of the cold
storage of vaccines and logistical support will be needed. To make this support possible,
the staff at the district level will examine ways and means of making the existing
vaccination effort more effective in coverage.
2. Crop Production Extension
Contrary to the high rainfall areas of the country where crop and livestock production are
being practiced by the same farmer, the pastoralists in the Arid Lands are generally not
engaged in crop production. The needs for extension of the pastoralists are being addressed
through the system of CAHWs as described above. Crop production activities in the ALs
are generally localized in very well defined "pockets" (irrigation schemes, highlands, etc.)
which vary considerably in size and number of farmers involved - from less than 20 to a
few hundred.
To provide extension to the farmers, two scenarios are possible: (a) the front line extension
worker lives near the agricultural area. He/she provides support to the farmers within
walking distance. Under this scenario, the FLS does not need any specific means of
transportation; and (b) the front line staff provide support to a number of farmers in more
than one location. He/she will than need a motorcycle to visit the farmers. All front line staff
will meet with farmers on a fortnightly basis.
The ratio of number of farm families per FLS will vary from district to district. However,
given the distances to be traveled between different areas where agriculture is being
practiced, the ratio of FLS per farm families should not exceed one per 200. The actual
number of FLS also varies considerably (depending on the importance of agriculture in the
district) but never exceeds about 40 FLS.
At least once per month, FLS will benefit from supervision. There will be one supervisor
per five to eight FLS. At the district level, a team of SMS will be responsible for the
training of FLS. Once per month, the District Agricultural Officer (DAO) will gather all
FLS in a specific location for this purpose. The DAO will be equipped with a 4x4 vehicle.
The DAO supervises both the FLS and the supervisors at the divisional level. He/she will
benefit from supervision from the provincial agricultural officer and the national level (it is
the responsibility of the national extension service that this supervision actually takes place
at least once every three months). The District Program Coordinator can flag the issue to
the Project Steering Committee for appropriate action in those cases where the supervision
from the provincial and national level would not be effective.
C. Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development
At the district level, MILRRWD has the capacity to be involved with about eight new water
points per year (borehole, dam, shallow well, etc.) The nature of the water point that should
be installed is decided through the Participatory Rural Appraisal exercise by the community
and the technicians. More important than the actual installation of the water point is the
mobilization of the community and its ownership of the management of the water point.
To achieve these objectives, a team  comprising two technical staff from the Water
Department as well as a livestock production officer and a social service officer will have a
series of sessions with the members of the community water association unit. During these



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
sessions, issues such as management of the water unit, introduction of the notion of cost
recovery, the function of Community Water Workers (CWW), etc. are discussed in detail.
Once the users association has elected a management committee, the team of technical staff
continues to train the committee members with regard to management skills, operational
maintenance, book keeping, formulation of bylaws, environmental impact, etc. This training
is organized through three training sessions of three days each with three months interval.
The experience in the field indicates that it is very difficult to have actual accountability for
the management of the water unit (including the collection and use of money from the
respective users) when the unit is managed by a committee. During project implementation,
new ideas will be explored to look for ways to improve the efficiency of the community
water unit management.
In addition to the election of a management comnittee, the users association identifies
CWWs - pump attendants, pipe fitters, line patrollers, mechanics and electricians. Each of
these CWWs participate in an initial technical training of seven days followed by three one
day refresher courses with three months interval.
Depending on the nature of the water point, the actual installation is assured by one of three
technical units - a drilling unit for boreholes, a pump installation unit, or a dam construction
unit. These units are present in each of the districts and should be equipped with a lorry for
transportation of material.
The support to the management and maintenance of the water units is assured through
monthly visits from the divisional officers (about three per district) to the CWWs. In most
cases, these officers will be equipped with a motorcycle. (It will be examined which
alternative can be usec in those areas where motorcycles are not a practical means of
transportation). In addition, a maintenance unit is on call at the district level to react to
demands from the respective users associations to intervene for repairs surpassing the
CWWs' capacity. This maintenance unit comprises an electrician, a plant mechanic, and a
plumber and will use a 4x4 vehicle equipped with repair tools.
The technical staff will participate In yearly one week refresher courses to improve
technical skills and to leam about new technologies such as solar pumps, wind mills, hand
pumps, etc. These training sessions will be organized by the departments' district based
staff. The staff participating in the teams that coach the communities to come to full
ownership of the water points will be trained on community management issues, extension
training skills, communication skills, group dynamics, accounting, environmental impact,
sanitation, ea. during a one week initial training session. They will participate in six monthly
one day refresher courses.
The divisional water officers will benefit from at least one supervision visit per month by
the district water engineer. These visits are also instrumental to upgrade the front line
staffs' skills and to identify further training needs. The district water engineer visits each of
the communities at least once every quarter to check on the efficiency of the services
delivered by his/her staff.
D. Ministry of Health
Conrmunities can be categorized according to the presence (or absence) of health facilities:
settlements with a health center or dispensary (Type A), settlements without any health



- 66 -                        Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
facility (Type B), and nomadic communities (Type C). In each of these communities, the
Ministry of Health's Primary Health Care Program has as its objective to assure maximum
mother and child welfare, to assure treatment of minor ailments, and to provide preventive
and educational services.
In each community, a village health committee is elected by the community members.
Guidance to this process is provided by the Trainer of Trainers at the divisional or location
level (about four per division). The committee members participate in a one week training
geared to improve skills related to management, accounting, community dynamics,
leadership, etc. During a public meeting, the community identifies who of the community
members can be trained to become a Community Health Worker (CHW, 15 to 20 for a
population of about 10,000 people). The existing Traditional Birth Attendants (TBA, 2 to 5
per community) are also proposed to have further training. TBAs have a two week course:
one week theory and one week practice. The CHWs' initial training is organized in three
sessions: two weeks of theoretical training, one week of practice, followed by another week
of theoretical courses. Those CHWs who have some education can be trained further to
become community trainer of trainers.
All communities of Type A and B have a cornmunity pharmacy where basic drugs, items
such as mosquito repellents and nets, and CHW and TBA kits are stored. The pharmacy is
also used as an information center: basic data on the health situation in the locality are
displayed on an announcement board. One pharmacy can serve a population of about eight
to ten thousand people.
The divisional nomadic primary health care team, constituted of the public health officer
and a community nurse, will visit Type B communities twice every month on a fixed day.
Those days, nomadic CHWs can meet with the health care staff for discussion and
consultation. Any other day, the nomadic CHWs can come to the community for
replenishment of their small drugs stock and for consultation with community Trainer of
Trainers. The pharmacies should be self-sustaining units that cover their expenses with the
revenue from the sales of drugs.
At the division level there is a health center which is headed by a clinical officer. He/she
supervises, among other things, the divisional nomadic primary health care team. The
members of this team are trained during a one week course as TOT and participate in
continued education courses about once every three months. They are responsible for the
training of the Village Health Committee members, the CIHWs, and the TBAs, and their
supervision. The team should be equipped with two motorcycles.
To provide outreach services (in addition to the primary health care) to the communities of
Type B and C, a district based team of five officers visit the communities at a well defined
time and place. They have a van equipped to provide primary curative and preventive health
care. In optimal conditions, the team can visit each Type B community once every two
months.
At the district level, a Nomadic Primary Health Care Core Team of about four members
under the leadership of the district nomadic primary health care coordinator is responsible
for the supervision of field activities and the training of staff in the health centers and
dispensaries. This team reports to the Medical Officer of Health (MOH).



- 67 -                          Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
Issues
Collaborating Agencies In order to increase sustainability and cost effectiveness, and to
avoid unnecessary overlapping between different organizations, the respective line
ministries can sub-contract activities to Collaborating Agencies. Organizations registered
with the national NGO Bureau, self-help groups registered with the Department of Social
Services, bi-lateral development organizations, and registered religious bodies are
examples. Agencies will be assessed according to clearly-defined cnrteria and will first be
approved by the line ministry concerned and by the District Steenrng Group before the
proposed collaboration can be approved and formalized at the national level. Examnples of
qualifying criteria include having a positive track record of working in the area and
delivering community-based services, respecting the relevant line ministries' policy,
possessing the necessary technical skills and manpower, and being committed to
participatory methods of community development. A sample contract for contracting a
collaborating agency is given in the PIP.
A mid-term review of the progress and impact of the project interventions will be
undertaken by the Borrower and the Bank. The report will cover the first three years of
implementation (FY96-FY98) and cover the following broad areas: (a) effectiveness of the
drought monitoring and mitigation activities; (b) effectiveness of the field operations of
each of the line ministries; (c) the physical progress relative to agreed targets: (d) rate of
disbursements relative to appraisal forecasts, (e) proposals for restructuring the project
components as needed in light of implementation experience; (f) impact evaluation; (g)
proposals for inter category reallocation of funds; and (h) status of performance of legal and
financial covenants and proposals for revisions as needed.
Gender concerns The project will strive to promote gender balance and incorporate the
concerns of pastoralist women in project implementation. Women will be encouraged to
apply for all available positions. Of the two community leaders who will participate in the
DSC, at least one would be a women. At least one female staff (preferably a local staff
mastering the community members' language) will be part of the teams responsible for the
PRA exercises. Finally, the District Program Coordinators will have as a special task to
monitor the gender responsiveness of each of the line ministries, in particular as related to
the services provided to the respective communities.



- 68 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT (OP)
COORDINATION
| NRRCC            L
I~~~~~~~~~~~~UI
FLINE
htINCSTRIES
CWW      -      CwnrnunIty WaeIokr                        P                 aioa  rjc  oriao
DM0JEC DruD oitrn   f Ic R EC                        O P OFfie ftePrsd
|    NPC      
A         |  |   ~~~~~DMIO                        SUPPORT
-*|STEERING    L                                                   DPC
GROUP
IFRONTLINE                                                                                SUPOR
|  STAFF                                       DM                                       SUPR
C OMMUNI TIE S
CAHW                             I                       I W           CHW/TBA             l
CAHW          -       Corwnunity Animal Health Workers        NRRC         - National Relief & Rehabilitation Cornmittee
CWW           -       Canmunity Water Workers                 NPC          - National Project Coordinator
CHW           -       Community Health Workers                NRRC              National Relief &c Rehabilitation Conmmittee
DMO           -       Drought Monitoring Officer              OP           - Office of thePresident
DPC           -       District Project Coordinator            TO           -   Training Officer
NPC            -      National Project Coordinator            TBA           -   Traditional Birth Attendants
*Membna are the Directors of Line Ministries/Departments.     'Members are Heads of Departments at District Level.



Ak   axRsKENYA
Ags  ad   eource Mai*agctimena pm)jecil
Ce-.tIp.,en.t. by 2.ae
loe cvo6 33K63..   6 !....______                                             ..Ca  U696  __________
3(/?1      51/ga-   1296/6        99/0O      66163      '11/6       Tut*l    96191-  191(96                  16/3 96   1101    11101       TotlI
2. 1..eI-I i.,. .-4 ir.:o*,, I262   1 2. 141.1  is, III. I 3, i. ?.4   I 1, gat..,  it, USA.  I16.6442-4                ml.&    III .1       M1.6    033.1    16lo. )      316.6  3, 6(1.1
I. --~s.ity uV1*'?.IA-et l.lq    69I1 II*096.6  46.R16.4  31,346.6  11.696.0  21.61U.0 249,361.1  3,A.3.   6121.4  (.611.4  1,161.9    061.3    G60.8  65.4i4.(
6. 3uo~.L   q.p'rlUni,61          _jO_  _!,tI. L       ."        _34' .i 0    3!11. i lOJ5j                       1        _.3  11. I    121.1    11k.6    (93.6    (-L1.1  .,4-  13 _
Io.W  PBkCL13.r C013                    I9I, 160.1 Iii.S12.6 219*,161.2 211,711.6 10(.611A.1  916.1J.1 I.DVI.CI6  6,31*.1  1.11 i.3  I .10.4   II.3.   2, 163.60  91.15.6 23.266.6
ri-ySica3 CsLmg.6. ,613.2   1,036.2   1,1*3.1   3,670.2   2,163.9   I,om$.  26t6q19.                                     M'2.      111.1      91.4     111.1      63.6       t1.2     638.2
NiAce Cm,nligm.e..
7.26.   1L' is.21D.S  11a               26. 11. 1   2,3112.6  !-.893. 4     169.3    64e          61 6.1             51.11614 UG  33t.1    391.6
S~~tot.*  l~~fl.t-1      0,113.2  39,514ii. 1  ic,644.6  (6, 11.1 3 1,31n.5  33,)55.6 I3.),1i6-. 2        ?O5.2      19g. 1    I61.9  1,664.6      032.1    1992 .     . 1239p.I
Ii,.'olu,2 Is.        317.1    3,22~~~~~~).0  30 *31.   II  6511,110 65 lk. I   S,99.1  53*1oo, -     399' I 1. z    -591.1   -911.6    -M6.6   -419.0   4132.1 -.-WI*.
SVIA11W   01:1              1'!52.  _1"   __!-J. Ili,.                                 ___   ___________   1___                             61.0    210.1    211. 1,I2)7.2
i:. uix  E%::L kn.j.                 l:3   ISIt 3.2In. 0  66. I.6   33.32       i ,)  .    A,6 6 11011.s  1,134.1   -101169                     9..,xv~  3136i.1  6631.6    411.1    ,6.
rsj Sap Is 16*26:51 3116
KENYA 
AFid Land% Rcsourcc Nianagenseni plojc
PWo5.ot Cmpoutg,t b, l...
jgEIcIwIp C        ntin.r,ci.s tf3h.nl63  ________iIso*3'3'  QfLhOIc. *1160
fit?&9/3        I6199       99/00       .6/63 1       1     ~ b         91/1       Sligo    96111l    91266       colit    13/01      total
1. D:.se.~1,225.0 112.319.3 I22.126.6s 3)1'(6,0.1  42,111.0  ii.241.9 6-14,1ile.1 i ,1.                                          ,~.    2.31).6  2,311.6    '136.9    162.6 *0.2)1.3
2. 3'.3lo   11*o:orc            5.3.163.1  11.3166,    15,911.3  40,312.A   13,31.6  23.11.1311,41.                   313.2      259.6'   7232.      )10.1    651.1    109.0  1,3fe.3
1. ~,uu,r.1t1D~V.*a~..u,1  ak.3.   9,J111.   43,611 I  11,,99.2  CS3,6(6.o  13_,s31.1  22,031.2 351e*96.?  *.431.0    6621.  3,093.5  (.240.0    40.5    016.1  6,911.2
6. Isoject 3sgj'oat halts   39. 221.9 ..)99.9 #P    2, 634.~ 4~2.4  4Z.945.f *   1,6(6., 2$6.ue.06    6*2.0    7.3 36.                       6.6       113.6     104. 1 461.1I
Tota  l3370,COS(0*                      7221,13.13 250,114.9 3172M454 Z11,117.1  3116.302.634,1.311.1                    4,61 5,0.    .*. 6,04 2,1. 2..9241.
09m



- 70 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Loan Disbursement
Cumulative          Disbursement
During Semester           Cumulative            Total (%)            Profile "
FY96
June 1996                          1.2                   1.2                6%                   3%
FY97
December 1996                      2.2                  3.4                16%                  10%
June 1997                          2.2                  5.6                26%                  22%
FY98
December 1997                      2.2                  7.8               35%                   30%
June 1998                          2.2                 10.0                45%                  38%
FY99
December 1998                      2.6                 12.6               57%                   46%
June 1999                          2.6                 15.2                69%                  58%
FYOO
December 1999                      1.8                 17.0               77%                   62%
June 2000                          1.9                 18.9                86%                  74%
FYOI
December 2000                      1.6                 20.5               93%                   82%
June 2001                          1.5                 22.0               100%                  94%
1/ Disbursement profile for all agriculture projects in Kenya.



- 71 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Summary of the Enviromnental Impact Assessment
Introduction
1.     A study was conducted in March/April, 1994 to assess the environmental impact of the
proposed activities of the Arid Lands Resource Management Project.2/ Short field visits to
Turkana, Marsabit, Wajir and Mandera districts to interview district staff, NGOs, and communities
supplemented a desk study. The assessment attempted to predict the probable changes ALRMP would
bring to the socio-economic and bio-physical enviromnent of the arid lands. In all areas of ALRMP
activities, no significant negative impact on either the bio-physical or socio-economic enviromnent
were found.
Background
2.     Kenya's arid lands cover approximately 63 percent of the country's surface area, and
classified into two agro-climate zones (VI and VII). The generally bimodal rainfall is erratic, of high
intensity, short duration and often results in high surface runoff and soil erosion. Soils are
characterized by low inherent fertility, often forming subsurface hardpan. They have moderate to low
waterholding capacity; strong surface sealing and crusting properties; high silt and sodium content
(especially in subsoils); and are highly susceptible to erosion. Most rivers are ephemeral and subject
to high and low seasonal flows with varying sediment loads. Flash floods in rivers are increasingly
regulated by dam construction. While this minimizes the destructive effect of the floods on flora and
fauna, they also have negative impacts, especially in limiting residual moisture agriculture and
reducing the availability of water (e.g. sand and subsurface dams). Groundwater potential is highly
variable in quantity and quality; surface water resources are generally scarce and variable.
3.     Pastoralist production systems, with herds composed of various combinations of camels,
cattle, goats, sheep and donkeys, are best suited to the arid lands; agriculture is only possible in less
than one percent of the entire area. Pastoralists have developed strategies to ensure sound utilization
of natural resources including distinctions between wet and dry season grazing areas, dividing herds
as precaution against overgrazing and disease, and mobility in response to varying climatic conditions.
Pastoralists rehabilitate their range by allowing undisturbed growth and seed production during the
growing period, and avoiding foraging on impoverished pastures. However, increasing loss of dry
season grazing areas to agriculture and other uses, partly resulting from population overspill from
high-potential areas of Kenya into semi-arid areas, and, in certain areas, population pressures within
the arid lands, has led to widespread livestock losses during drought and settlement around relief
centers. The trend toward sedentarization is also augmented by the fixed services provided by GOK,
religious groups and NGOs, as well as by the support for agricultural (as opposed to livestock)
2/  The study was conducted by W.K. Yabann, E.K. Biamah, and A.J. Haji of AITEC Resource Management Consultants,
Nairobi.



- 72 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
initiatives these agencies have offered. Also, the Shifta wars of the 1960s, which lead to mass
displacement of nomads and loss of livestock, has been a contributing factor. Settlement is associated
with land degradation. Thus, the overall carrying capacity of the arid lands has been reduced, a
feature which has been exacerbated by neighboring wars and social conflicts.
4.    The distribution of livestock within ethnic groups is changing as a small elite own the
majority of animals and more and more families barely subsist. The availability of milk in the dry
season is the critical factor at household level; animals are increasingly sold to purchase grain (and
other cash needs), which undermines the possibility of herd expansion (and drought recovery).
Another trend is acute male labor shortages in the pastoral household due to school enrollment and
out-migration for urban jobs. These factors have led to a high number of female-headed households
and new roles for women. The trend is to diversify incomes through education and wage labor, or
other income-generating activities.
Impacts
5.    Overall, the ALRMP is not expected to have any negative impact on the social or physical
environment of the arid lands. None of the activities of the Drought Management Component,
which includes strengthening the country's institutional capacity for advanced drought preparedness,
for monitoring and predicting droughts, and for mitigating their impact by timely and effective
responses and coordination of post-drought recovery activities, is expected to have direct negative
impacts on the environment. Because road rehabilitation and development of drought mitigation
centers will be confined to existing infrastructure, no negatives impacts are envisioned.
6.    Some of the activities under the Livestock Marketing Component could have a degree of
negative impact on the environment, but overall the positive impacts of these activities outweigh any
negative ones. Negative impacts could result from increased numbers of livestock along revised
stocicroutes, and settlement around holding grounds and service facilities such as auction yards and
watering points. However, with community-based planned access and appropriate range management
practices this minimal impact could be eliminated. The development of stockroutes will help increase
offtake and ease pressure on grazing.
7.    On the whole the Community Development Component is expected to have either positive
or neutral environmental impact. Training activities would have a positive impact, as would the
establishment of fuel woodlots near urban centers, and the pilot testing of technological packages. As
long as water schemes are small in scale, no environmental impacts are envisioned. Income
generating activities to diversify the pastoral economy would have a positive impact, so long as the
new activities do not reduce the viability of primary pastoral activities. It is recommended that
certain CD activities should give deliberate attention to women, children and youths, so that they
might be sensitized to equitable and sustainable development.
8.    In order to enhance the positive impacts of the ALRMP, it is suggested that large water
sources not be developed unless complete environmental impact studies of each sub-project is
conducted. The possibility of increased numbers of livestock along stockroutes and the network water
points should be monitored closely so that trends can be established. Finally, a situation analysis
identifying the roles and status of women at the household and community levels is recommended.



- 73-
Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
9.     Monitoring and evaluation of the environmental impact of the ALRMP should be a continuous
process and it is recommended that data collection and analysis occur at every level of
implementation. Some of the parameters and indicators of environmental effects include: rate of
increase of livestock numbers and human population around water points, trends in soil erosion,
grazing around water points, sedentarization trends, sales of livestock, changes in pastoralists'
lifestyles, changes in household income, etc. A multi-disciplinary monitoring network should be
established involving all the relevant actors in the arid lands.



Amnex 10
Page 1 of I
Key Performance Indicators
Activity                                     Indicator                                                              1996       1997       1998        1999       2000       2001
Drought Management
Implementation of drought monitoring system  number of monthly drought reports(national and district)                108        132         132        132        132        132
Establishment of Drought Contingency Fund    availability of fund                                                     y          y          Y          Y           Y          Y
Establishment of emergency cereal reserve    number of district cereal reserves                                       5          10         10         10         10          10
Elaboration of drought contingency plans     accepted by District Steering Group                                                 5          5
Drought mitigation interventions             number of operational grazing reserves                                              5          10         lo         10          10
Marketing and infrastructure
Holding grounds/stockroutes/market centers   identified and planned                                                   s          16         24
implemented                                                                        s          24         48         48          48
Conmmnity Development
Support to animal health and livestock       number of Community Animal Health Workers trained and operational       500        1000       1000       IOO        1000       1O000
increase in percentage of vaccination coverage                                     5%         5%         5%         5%          5%
percentage decrease in cattle and goat pneumonia                                   5%         5%         5%         5%          5%
increase in offtake of animals                                                    0.501%     0.50%/     0 50%/     0.50%      0. 50%
Support to crop production                    number of demonstration plots                                          IODO       2000       3000       3000        3000       3000
percentage increase in yields of major crops (maize, sorghum, tomato)              3%         3%         3%         3%          3%
Water supply                                  number of new water supply units                                        40         40         S0         S0         100         100
number of Community Water Workers trained and operational              200         300        400        500        600         600
Human health                                  number of Traditional Birth Attendants trained and operational          100        200        300        400        400        400
number of Community Health Workers trained and operational              50         100        Xso        200        200         200
percentage decline in common diseases                                              3%         3%         3%         3%          3%
percentage decline in child mortality rate                                         5%         5%         5%         5%          5%
TraDiing                                      number of staff participating in initial training                      1000        500        200        200        200         200



- 75 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Approx. Dates           Key Activities                         Expected Skills               Input Staff
Weeks
10-11/95           Project Launch Mission, including      Institutions and Community          8
launch workshops for each districts    Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, and Disbursement
Officer
02/96             Supervision Mission; field visit to 2  Institutions and Community          10
districts - review progress, issues:   Specialist, Procurement
special emphasis on (i) training of    Specialist, Livestock Marketing
development actors under CD & Drought   Specialist, and Drought
Management; (ii) finalizing community-    Management Specialist
training component of Marketing
Component (iii) finalization of contracts
of major studies & study stan-up
06/96             Supervision Mission: focus on progress    Institutions and Community       10
review relative to annual workplan     Specialist, Marketing Specialist,
targets, and finalization of AWP for   Procurement Specialist
PY2: on-ground progress of CD
component; procurement progress;
accounts and audit arrangement;
visit 3 districts
11/96            Supervision Mission: Review progress    Institutions & Community            10
on FY2 workplan; procurement progress,   Specialist
review reports of the studies (land    Drought Mgt Specialist
tenure, guarantine line) and finalize next   Livestock Specialist
steps, review progress on preparation of    Procurement Specialist
CD manual; district alright manuals and
contingency plans special focus on on-
ground progress of the community
microprojects and establishment of EWS;
Field visits to at least 2 districts.
3/97             Supervision Mission: same as on 11/96  Institutions & Community            8
plus                                   Specialist
(i) prepare for 2-year
evaluation of CD                   Disbursement/Finance Specialist
Component;
(ii) review audit reports              Rural Roads Engineer
(iii) review first drafts of
AWP for PY3
(iv) field visits to at least 2
districts.



- 76 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Approx. Dates            Key Activities                        Expected Skills                Input Staff
Weeks
10/97            Supervision Mission: review of PY2      Institutions and Community          8
financial & physical progress; review   Specialist
CD evaluation report and decide on      Livestock Mktg Specialist
extension of the component; review the
final drought manuals & contingency
plans; focus on on-ground operation of
rehabilitated stock routes, holding
grounds and market yards.
4/98             Supervision Mission: Review of FY3      Monitoring & Evaluation Expert,     8
workplan implementation, special focus  Drought Management Specialist
on preparation for the mid-term review
10/98            Mid-term Project Review and             Institutions & Community             12
compliance of loan covenants - progress    Specialist
on the institutional & investment       Drought Management Specialist
programs, review of the physical &      Livestock Mktg Specialist
financial targets for the remaining project   Procurement Specialist
period and mid-course correction ; visit    Financial & Disbursement
to at least 6 of the 8 districts:       Specialist
Rural Roads Engineer
3/99             Supervision Mission:                    Institutions & Community            8
Progress review with special focus on   Specialist
implementing MTR agreements, finalize    Drought Management Specialis:
AWP for FY5;
visit two districts
10/99, 3/2000       Supervision missions for progress       Two member mission comprising       18
and 10/2000         review, field visit to 2 districts in each  Task Manager and one specialist   (6 sw each)
mission                                 (alternatively for the three
components)
FY 2001            Credit Closing/ICR                      Institutions & Community            8
Specialist
Livestock Mktg Specialist
DM Specialist
Operations Assistant
TOTAL                                                                  108
1995-2001         TOTAL SUPERVISION REQUIREMENT                                               108



- 77 -                      Annex 12
Pagel of 4
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.    The main quantifiable as well as non-monetizeable benefits accruing from the
implementation of the various project components have been described at some length in
paras. 5.5 through 5.15 , of the SAR. The basic cost/ benefit analysis undertaken indicates
that, even with modest assumptions about the quantifiable project benefits, the potential
returns from ALRMP will be fairly substantial. In view of the impact of the recent price
reforms in Kenya, the key distortions in the foreign exchange rate, interest rates, wage
rates and product prices have been removed. Thus, economic prices are expected to be
very close to financial prices. A project life of 20 years is assumed for purposes of benefit-
cost streams assessment. All transfers to GOK have been excluded from project benefits &
costs; realistically, the fiscal impact of project benefits is expected to be negligible, due to
the informal nature of the livestock and labor markets in the ALs. Hence, taxes and
duties were excluded from the economic analysis. Also, price contingencies were not
reflected in project costs, since the project benefits were evaluated in constant terms, over
the project life.
2.    The analysis assumes that the main benefits resulting from  the Drought
Manazement Component of the project would stem from a reduction in livestock mortality
rates by about 25 percent, i.e., the herd losses due to drought (direct losses due to
starvation and disease/pestilence or indirect losses due to heightened slaughter rates)
would be reduced by one-quarter of the present high levels. On the basis of past trends, it
is also assumed that a severe drought is experienced every 10 years, while a less severe
one is experienced every 5 years. Hence, the 20 year project period would witness savings
related to four droughts of differing severities. The provision of animal health services
under the Marketing and Infrastructure and CD components, as well as the emergency
veterinary campaigns during droughts, coupled with improvements in water supply and
nutrition, will contribute towards improved weight and low disease rate herds. The
premium for the improved quality livestock (along with the reduced transportation/
marketing costs) is expected to translate into a modest 10 percent price increment.
3.    It is very conservatively estimated that the improvements to the marketing
infrastructure/ facilities of the ALs described earlier, would increase annual sales of cattle
and small ruminants by 20 percent each over current rates, and that of camels by just 10
percent p.a., at full development. However, sales volumes (off-take rates) are estimated to
drop to 50 percent of their normal levels in severe droughts and by an average of 35 percent
during the two subsequent years (following a severe drought year), while herd sizes build back
to their original levels. Drastically reduced prices (on the basis of prices prevailing during the
severe drought of 1991/92) have been applied during severe droughts, for purposes of
valuing the livestock. Given the substantial drought mitigation/management efforts under
the project, it is assumed that the prices during the less severe droughts will stabilize at
around fifty percent of the normal farmgate price levels. The benefits from incremental
livestock sales under the project are calculated by applying the increases in off-take rates to the



- 78 -                     Annex 12
Page2 of 4
average herd sizes at the improved (with project) prices and by discounting for the drought
effect as above. The main quantifiable benefit from the CD component is expected to result
from a 10 percent improvement in the gross incomes of about 15 percent of the AL
populations who are expected to set up micro-enterprises with project support. Project
investment and recurrent costs related to each of the three components, were netted out
against the benefits streams. Project Support Unit costs were also included in the analysis.
Following project completion, recurrent costs were assumed to continue at levels
essential for sustaining an adequate flow of services related to the activities initiated under
the project. A one time replacement/rehabilitation expenditure in PY12, related to drought
management equipment/infrastructure (US$ 1.5 million), and for the rehabilitation/
construction of roads and replacement of construction and repair equipment (US$ 0.4 million)
was also included in the analysis.
4.    Based on the foregoing, an ERR of 16.9 percent is calculated for the project.
Results from switching value analysis for an ERR of 10 percent which is the Opportunity
Cost of Capital (OCC) for Kenya, demonstrate that a significant change in benefits or
costs, i.e. a 34 percent drop in total (quantifiable) benefits, or a large increase of 51
percent in costs would be required in order to reduce the ERR to 10 percent. Sensitivity
Analysis shows that if benefits fall or costs increase by 25 percent, the ERR would fall to
12 percent and 13.1 percent, respectively. Alternately, if benefits increase or costs fall by
25 percent, the ERR would rise to 21.3 percent and 22.6 percent, respectively. An
enormous decline of 70 percent in total benefits would be essential in order for the ERR to
drop to zero percent. Conversely, an exponential increase of 200 percent in total project costs
would push the ERR to zero percent. If all quantifiable benefits envisaged to accrue from the
drought mitigation/ management interventions under ALRMP are excluded from the total
benefits stream, the project's ERR would decline to 10.4 percent; if instead, the benefits
from the marketing and infrastructure improvements under the project are excluded, the
ERR drops to 5.3 percent. The exclusion of the CD benefits reduces the ERR to 14.4
percent. No independent lag analysis of the project's benefits stream was undertaken, as
the impact of droughts on the project's benefits stream was built into the basic economic
analysis model.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
Kenya Arid Lands Resource Management Project: Economic and Financial Analysis
Years/drought years                  96197 97198 98/99 99/00    00101    01/02 02/03 03/04 04/05 05/06 06/07 07/08 08109 09110  10/11  11/12  12/13  13/14   14/15   15/16
less                                  severe                          less                                  severe
Quantifiable Benelits                                         severe                                                                 severe
Reduced Mortality                     0      0     0      0       6014        0    0     0      0    8870    0      0     0      0    6014    0        0      0       0     8870
from Drought Management                                                                                       .
Improved Sales from                          0    363   581        544      3483 3483 4572  4572   642   835  835  4572  4572  2286   4572   4572  4572   4572    642
stfenghtening of mkt. infrastructure
Increased Income from                  0     0      0     0         0        75   150  150   375   375   375  1500 1500  1500  1500   1500   1500  1500   1500    1500
ofl-farm micro-enterprises
Increased income from water           0      0      0     0         3        103  132  211   263    3    132   263   263   263   105    263    263    263    263              26
(boreholes, home gardens, labor savings)
Increased income from better           0     0      0     0         0         0    0      0     0      0     12    23    35    46    58        69     81     92      104     115
employment of 5% receiving education
TotalQuantifiableBenefits              0     0    363   581       6561      3661 3765 4932  5210  9890  1353 2621  6369  6381  9963   6404   6415  6427   6438   11154
Project Costs &
Post-Project Recurrent Corts
Drought management component costs    1920  2604  2303  2200       719       709  330  330   330   330   330  1500  330   330   330    330    330   330    330               330
Marketfing inlrastrcture costs       324   735   694   678         420      339   30   30    30    30    30   400   30    30    30             30     30     30      30      30
CostsotCDPcomponent                  1371   842  1042  1159        617      617  164   164   164    82    82    82    82    82    82           82     82     82      82      82
Project Support Uniit Costs          802   692   942   789         708      632   0       0     0      0      0     0     0      0      0      0      0      0       0        0
TotalCosts                           4417  4872  4980  4826       2464      2298  524  524   524   442   442  1982  442   442   442    442    442    442    442              442
Not Benefits from Project           -4417 -4872 -4618 -4245       4097      1363 3240 4408  4685  9448   911   639  5927  5938  9520   5961   5973  5984   5996   10711
Internal Rate of Return:            16.9%



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Kenya Arid Lands Resource Management Project: Sensitivity Analysis
96/97  197/98  198/99 199/00 100/01101/02102/03103/04104/05 105/06 106/07 107108108109 109110 110/11 111112 112/13 113114  14/15  161/16
Total Ouantifiable BenefitslBase Casel  0      0    363    581 6561 3661 3765 4932  5210  9890  1353 2621  6369  6381  9963  6404  6415  6427  6438  11154
Total Costs (Base Case)              4417   4872  4980   4826 2464 2298  524  524   524   442  442 1982  442   442   442    442   442   442   442  442
Not Benefits                        -4417  -4872  -4618  -4245 4097 1363 3241 4408  4686  9448  911  639 5927  5939  9521   5962  5973  5985  5996 10712
IRR                                   17%
TotalQuantiliable8onefitslup25%)        0       0    454    726 8201 4576 4706 6165  6513 12363  1691 13276 7961  7976 12454   8005  8019  8034  8048 13943
Total Costs                          4417   4872  4980   4826 2464 2298  524  524   624   442   442 '1982   442   442   442    442   442   442   442  442
Net Benefits                        -4417  -4872  -4627  4099 6737 2279 4182 5641  5988 11920 1249 1294 7519  7534 12011   7563  7576  7591  7806 13500
IRR                                   21%
Total Quantifiable Benefits (down 25%)  0       0    272    436 4921 2746 2824 3699  3908  7418  1015 1966 4777  4786  7472  4803  4811  4820  4829  8366
TotalCosts                           4417   4872  4980   4826 2464 2298  524  524   624   442   442 1982   442   442   442    442   442   442   442  442
03      Net benefits                        -4417  -4872  -4708  4390 2457  448 2299 3176  3383  6975  672  .-18 4334  4343  7030  4361  4369  4378  4386  7923
IRR                                   12%
TotalQuantifiable8enelits(down50%;      .0      0    181    291 3281  1831 1883 2466  2605  4945   677 1311  3185  3191  4982   3202  3208  3214  3219  5577
Total Costs                          4417   4872  4980   4826 2464 2298  524  524   624   442   442 1982   442   442   442    442   442   442   442  442
Net Benefits          _4417  -4872  -4799  -4535  817  -467 1358 1942  2081  4503   234  -672 2742  2748  4539  2760  2766  2771  2777  5135
t                           B~~~~~~~%
TotalOuanti,iableBenehits down70%1      0       0    109    174 1968 1098 1130 1480  1563  2967   406  786  1911  1914  2989   1921  1925  1928  1931  3346
Total Costs                          4417   4872  4980   4826 2464 2298  524  524   524   442   442 1982  442   442   442    442   442   442   442  442
Net Benefits                        -4417  -4872  -4872  -4651  496 -1199  605  955  1039  2525   -37 -1196 1468  1472  2546  1479  1482  1486  1489  2904
IRR                                    0%
Total quantitiable benelits             0       0    363    581 6561 3661 3765 4932  5210  9890  1353 2621  6369  6381  9963  6404  6415  6427  6438  11154
Total costs (up 26%)                 5521   6090  6226   6032 3080 2872  656  656   656   553   553 2478   553   553   553    553   553   553   553  553
Net Benefts                         -5521  -6090  -6863  -5461 3481  789 3109 4276  4554  9337   800  143 6816  6828  9410  5851  5862  5874  5885 10601
IRR                                   13%
Totalquantifiablebenefits               0       0    363    581 6561 3661 3765 4932  5210  9890  1353 2621  6369  6381  9963  6404  6415  6427  6438 11154
Totalcosts jdown25%;                 3312   3654   3735   3619 1848 1723  393  393   393   332   332 1487   332   332   332    332   332   332   332  332
Net Benefits                        -3312  -3654  -3373  -3038 4713 1938 3372 4639  4817  9558  1021 1134 6037  6049  9631   6072  6083  6095  6106 10822
IRR                                  23%
Totalquantifiablebenefits               0      0   363    581 6561 3661 3765 4932  5210  9890  1353 2621  6369  6381  9963   6404  6415  6427  6438 11154
Totalcosts(up200%)                  13250  14616  14941  14477 7392 6893 1573 1573  1573  1327  1327 5946  1327  1327  1327   1327  1327  1327  1327  1327
Net Benefits                       -13250 -14616 -14578 -13896  -831 -3232 2192 3359  3637  8563    26 -3325 5042  5054  8636  5077  5088  5100  5111  9827
IRR                                   0%



- 81 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECt
Documents in Project File
*     Arid Lands Data (22 tables) and information sheets (1994)
*     Arid & Semi-arid Land Project Catalogue (1993)
*     Proceedings of Workshops on ASAL (1992-94)
*     District Profiles - Meteorological Department (1993) - (10 profiles)
*     Action Plan for Community Participation in ASAL (2 Working Papers)
*     Development Policy for ASAL - Government of Kenya (1992)
*     Development Plan 1994/96 - Republic of Kenya (1994)
*     Drought Monitoring Bulletins 1993/94 - (30 Bulletins)
*     Environmental Impact Assessment of ALRMP - AITEC Resources Management Consultant
(May 1994)
*     Drought Preparedness, Intervention and Recovery in ASAL of Kenya - EEC/WFP (1992)
*     Environmental Action Plan - Republic of Kenya (1993) (for x 23 ASAL districts)
*     Evaluation of Participatory Methodologies in Kenya
*     Human Resource Development Plan for ASAL - Government of Kenya (1991/93)
*     Integrated Development Programmes in ASAL Districts - Kenya/Netherlands Program (1993)
*     Kenya Food & Nutrition Policy - World Bank Sector Report (1991)
*     The Constitution of Kenya
*     Legal Issues in Designing and Implementing Bank-financed Projects with Community
Participation - (1994)
*     Livestock Development in Asal Areas of Kenya - Holderman (1988)



- 82 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
*     Marketing of Livestock & Products in Garissa, and Turkana - Chabari Francis N, Ministry of
Livestock Development (1991)
*     Pastoralist Integrated Development Project - Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional & Water
Development (1992/93)
*     Pastoral Production system and Livestock Development Project: An East African Perspective -
Dyson , Hudson Weville
*     Perspective Plan (1994-2000) - ASAL Development Programmes - Government of Kenya
(1994).
*     Range Management Handbooks of arid districts (1988-92)
*     Famine Code - Government of Rajasthan
*      Drought Manual - Turkana District (1992)
*     Use of Renewable Energy Technologies in Arid Lands Report- Hankins, Mark, de Schutter
(1994)
*     Draft Executive Summary-Kenya Poverty Assessment Report, World Bank (1994)
*     Detailed Glossary of ALRMP-related documents
*     Project Implementation Plan



MAP SECTION






IBR) '264. '
SUDAN                                                                                               KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE
.'1   .                                                                    MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(N '; A                                      l                      x,~,0                       Project Area
K   TURKANA
"'I             ',,,                  ! Tl,,F<,s,                                          =                     /                 MANDER4 /
RIFT'\
<           >    \/Yfl   VALLEY\"                                   EASTERN (                              r
z               >                /  [                                MARSABIT         /                                          NORTH
z!                                           ' /                                 (' I
U)                                                      4&RPAR(T 1' WA\RR
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FJ
9.'! 1 A    ,OFOA   9FNYANG            SAMBURU,W               | R             IOL
/ <-      ,'VPFF         IP.MARALAL                              I                                           /
J  W^IIA  F             a  T~~~~ANGUSEI                   (                                                                                        0    
F t< d   OOFPF   PAPEI                                    C                              ~ \EASTERN
r -  P>         '                   )  1              I      t ' t A  /                  \                         N, ' '
AFCAR F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIIIS
).          HA- '>   I,                                                             i_ OA'   GARISSA\
\          F*J   ;F(FFr E,                                                               -NAfFOBl .e^CHAtO   ITIITANA RIVER  K.
HOF;/PA    JAr!,'OLA
M tAJOYP rc t ls                                  -         ^s                                          
* AIP-PPc r nr A icLlav-r R   z qX   \   s A 1  Fy                                               C  0   A  S  T
P/~WfF F] F  JPTF 4'I                     /
I lATINAlO CAPPTAL                 /\/ /P\"P 
M%A tl R' )ADS                        I r t                               < 
>+   E/.r)1 hZAt.L A RPOFT5                 t              \                                    IZA~~~~~~~~~~~~~LINDI
*)         I     Al CFNAL AIPPC)RTS            /AA                                  F AFANFF _\IT                          '
[      NTFLIF_N1 FL)DARJES                        VA.o,F,                          r                           PP t LIF:  _                            _
SUP) 1.5)                                                                             "- -LU.A EN             I I                tI:.
S,UB UISIF C r BO90UNDt R;EF   4r=s                                                                 ,                       PP
-                              I .   ;      .LRSA| s 8, -   , ^
NP@  IFR  T FtL/P  EOPPODAPPFS                 =    -         '     = = -                                                I|WNAIL
LKArI FAYA
n ER71,%T  0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IDARIE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~        ~       I         2., 
52                   ,F'FF4A                                          1       \ uL>Jc 
The bA)FPlFdFP  eS rs C S)&F FF,FFPFFO,Sl cl(-d  ony  other -nfQrmto,P                                        F,                          !AF'AP(A
,h-,WI c,,, ff,, ,,ap d, /Dt /npl  oo oE  poF4  oa  The World Bank                                      pD t, F,A
Group, .FY CIQdgPPelPF  -F lhe fegol tOt-s of oPPt' ter/Ptory, or ony
eH,dorPA'P  CF c: oCpptoP,- 'ol s-ch bo-ndr,es                                                                                                    AM9
JANPJAR'"  1Y95









IMAGINGr
Repor t No:        1:3632'2 KE
Tyje: JAR



