Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6472-KE
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1995)
Currency Unit        Kenya Shilling (Kshs.)
US$1.00              Kshs. 45.0
SDR1.00              US$1.49299
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ALs           Arid Lands
ALRMP         Arid Lands Resource Management Project
ASALs         Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CD            Community Development
DFS           District Focus Strategy
DRR           Department of Relief and Rehabilitation
DSG           District Steering Group
EDRP          Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EWS           Early Warning System
ERR           Estimated Rate of Return
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOK           Government of Kenya
IDA           International Development Association
MLRRWD        Ministry of Land Reclamation. Regional and Water Development
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NPV           Net Present Value
OP            Office of the President
PIDP          Pastoralist Integrated Development Project
PLA           Participatory Learning for Action
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agencies:  Line Ministries and Non-Governmental Agencies, under the
coordination of the Department of Relief and Rehabilitation (Office
of the President) and in collaboration with local communities
Beneficiaries:          Arid Lands Populations, Govemment and Non-Governmental
Agencies
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions. The three mutually reinforcing
project components aim to reduce the poverty of ALs populations
through benefits such as increase in on- and off-farm income
generation capacity, reduction in drought inflicted losses, provision
of improved basic services, and enhanced market linkages.
Amount:                  SDR 14.8 million (US$22.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard with 40 years maturity
Commitment Charge:    0. 50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:         See Schedule A.
Net Present Value:       US$ 10.5 million. However, this amount does not include the
substantial non-quantifiable benefits expected to be generated by
the project.
ERR:                     16.9%
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 13692-KE.
Map:                    IBRD 26479
Project ID No.:         KE-PA-1331
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiahout World Bank authorization.



I     I



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR AN ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Govemment of Kenya (GOK) for SDR 14.8 million (US$22.0 million
equivalent) to help finance an Anrd Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP). The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years.
2. Country and Sector Background. Kenya is a low-income country with a per capita
income of $260 in 1994 (at current prices and exchange rates). The economy is heavily
dependent on agriculture, which employs about 80 percent of the labor force and contributes
more than a quarter of GDP. Although, historically, the performance of the agricultural sector in
Kenya has been better than the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (agricultural growth rate (value
added) was about 6.2 percent per annum (1965-1973), 4.6 percent (1974-1980), and 2.5 percent
(between 1981 and 1987), the situation has worsened sharply since 1988; the average annual
growth rate declined to 1.6 percent in the 1988-1992 period. The agricultural growth rate was in
fact negative in 1992 and 1993. This downtum in agricultural growth may be largely attributed
to poor rainfall over this period. Very little high potential agricultural land is left in the country
which is not already being cropped or grazed, and about three-quarters of the country's land area
is classified as arid or semi-arid. These fragile drier areas of the country are experiencing the
adverse environmental consequences of rapid population increases, sedentarization of these lands
and the use of inappropriate technologies. Further, the Arid Lands (ALs) are adversely affected
by frequent droughts, which decimate up to 50 percent of the livestock population in each severe
occurrence, causing serious damage to the pastoralists' livelihood and economy. It is not
surprising, therefore, that almost the entire population of the ALs of about one million, is counted
among the poorest and most disadvantaged sections of society in the country. Thus, although the
ALs are well-endowed with livestock resources, in the absence of reliable marketing outlets, the
full benefit of this resource accrues neither to the pastoralists nor to the consumers in the rest of
the country.
3. The Government has had a well-articulated Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) policy since
1979 when an official document set out the ASAL policy framework for the 1980s. The main
objectives were stated as resource conservation, exploitation of productive (primarily livestock)
potential, development of human resources and integration of the ASAL into the national
economy. Substantial emphasis is also placed on drought contingency planning in order to
strengthen the coping mechanisms of local communities. These policy objectives have been
upheld and elaborated in subsequent policy documents. Three major concerns, however, are not
fully reflected in either Government policies or program initiatives. First, the Government needs
to enunciate a national policy on drought management for the ALs. Second, there is a need to
evolve specific policy initiatives for addressing issues concerning the deteriorating natural
resource base in the ALs. Third, the Government is implementing The Land Adjudication Act in
Samburu, Isiolo and Marsabit districts under which common land is adjudicated and titles given
to individuals; the impact of this land redistribution on pastoral communities needs to be studied.



4.    The Ministry of Land Reclamation, Regional and Water Development (MLRRWD) and
the Office of the President (OP) have the main responsibilities for policy and programs in
ASALs. MILRRWD handles policy development in the ASALs; OP is in charge of drought
policy conceming drought management, relief and rehabilitation, and coordinates district,
regional and national administrations which are in charge of carrying out the programs.
Recently, the Govemment has strengthened the institutional capacity for drought and relief
operations by establishing a separate Department of Relief and Rehabilitation (DRR) in the
Office of the President, headed by a Permanent Secretary. At the district level, the Government
has adopted the District Focus Strategy (DFS) for implementing rural development initiatives.
The DFS is intended to decentralize management responsibilities (including planning and
monitoring) to the district level.
5.  Although a number of multilateral and bilateral development projects have been introduced
in ASALs in the last two decades, with the exception of a few interventions, these have largely
focused on the relatively better off semi-arid lands. The only major investment effort supported
by IDA in the ALs is the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP - CR. 2460-KE), which
is being implemented by the OP in four arid districts, namely Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana and
Tana River (extended to Wajir district during the Mid-term Review). The project objective is to
assist the ASAL populations affected by the 1992 drought to begin a sustainable recovery
process. Its components include agriculture, livestock, drought management and environment,
infrastructure, water management, health services and capacity building. EDRP has initiated
certain important actions (e.g., capacity building and institutional arrangements), to support
sustainable drought mitigation measures in the ALs. Community mobilization and participation
in project activities are regarded as an important aspect for financing development initiatives
under EDRP; the rehabilitated dams, water pans and boreholes in Mandera, Turkana and
Marsabit districts have been handed over to communities for operations and management. This
stakeholder participation aspect of EDRP has been replicated under ALRMP Furthermore, the
activities initiated under the animal health component and the drought management component
of EDRP will dovetail into the ALRMP.
6.     The ALs area has considerable untapped potential arising from its rich endowment in
livestock: the eight arid districts contain nearly 20 percent of country's cattle, 30 percent of
sheep, nearly 50 percent of goats and donkeys and almost the entire camel popuiation. However,
by virtue of being situated the farthest from the principal Government and commercial centers in
the north and east of the country (in a region of poor infrastructure), the access to markets for
livestock products (the main economic asset of the ALs populations), is poor. The ALs
populations are thus isolated from the social and economic mainstream of Kenya.
7. Project Rationale. The ALs represent 60 percent of Kenya's land mass; almost the entire
ALs population of about one million is living below the poverty line. Social welfare indicators
show that in terms of access to public health, nutrition and education services, they receive a
fraction of the services available to the rest of the Kenyan population. The principal objective of
ALRMIP is to reduce widespread poverty, enhance food security and improve delivery of basic
social services in the ALs; the project seeks to galvanize broad-based growth through improved
management of the ALs poor's most abundant assets - livestock and labor, along with sound
management of the ALs' natural resources.
8.    ALRMP is thus, a natural resources management and targeted poverty intervention
supporting the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) - which has as its locus, the reduction
of poverty and promotion of equitable, environmentally sustainable development in Kenya. The
project is also consistent with the Govemment's development program in the dryland areas of
Kenya - areas susceptible to serious recurrent droughts. It is noteworthy that, ALRMP's



precursor, and the only World Bank project in the area -- EDRP, is having an impact in
improving the management of livestock resources, animal health, drought, water resources and
the environment/natural resource base, as well as, strengthening local capacities in the districts
where it is being implemented. ALRMP is targeted to reach a highly disadvantaged group of
communities living under harsh economic and agro-ecological conditions, and seeks to improve
their living conditions through: (i) enhancing resilience to droughts; (ii) increasing incomes
through strengthening linkages with the rest of the economy; (iii) addressing basic needs of the
communities, and especially of women and children; and (iv) the conservation of the natural
resource base of the ALs.
9.    Rising population pressures in the semi-arid lands have also increased the pressure on
the ALs resource base. Consequently the traditional coping mechanisms of the ALs populations
are no longer adequate to allow them to recover from droughts. As a result, their dependence on
primarily donor financed relief programs has grown over the years and in some parts of the ALs
it has become a way of life. This is clearly not sustainable. The project would aim through its
drought management component, to enhance the ALs population's resilience to drought, and by
formulating a detailed set of arrangements for drought warning, mitigation and recovery, aimed
at reducing drought inflicted losses, reduce the need for repetitive emergency interventions.
Furthermore, whilst the main economic asset of the ALs is livestock, as a result of poor linkages
with the rest of the economy (due mainly to inadequate infrastructure), the ALs communities
have been unable to realize the financial benefits from this important resource. The project aims
to improve the linkages of the ALs with the rest of the economy and help facilitate the further
integration of these communities by providing marketing outlets for livestock products through
operationalization of key stockroutes, rehabilitation of related infrastructure, and the formation
of user-groups for the identification of marketing obstacles and related solutions.
10.   The main lesson learned from the successful initiatives in the ALs is that, sustainable
development would not have been possible without strong community involvement in decision
making and implementation. This lesson has been the cornerstone in designing the Community
Development component under the project, which would enable communities to plan and
implement micro-projects that respond to their own priorities, building sustainability into the
development initiatives. These microprojects would help meet basic social needs, in particular of
women and children, and also promote off/on-farm income generating activities.
11.   The project is designed to draw upon the least cost options for undertaking the proposed
initiatives in the project area. The representatives of the key technical line ministries in the
District Steering Group will evaluate the soundness of the technological packages being adopted.
The locally based relevant NGOs and other Collaborating Agencies as well as the ALs
communities themselves, would be closely involved in the selection of alternative approaches
with regard to technological processes and resources to be employed in implementing various
activities under the project. Furthermore, the lessons of experience and "best practices" that have
evolved under the past and ongoing development interventions in the area will be applied and
replicated under ALRMP. The project would, wherever possible, seek to employ locally
available cost effective and hitherto tested technology packages and resources, eliminating the
need for costly imports or exogenous technologies involving high operating and maintenance
costs. Both the design and the implementation strategy adopted for ALRMP are based on the
tenets of low cost alternatives and project sustainability.
12.     Project Objectives. The objectives of the Project are to strengthen and support
community driven initiatives to: (a) reduce the widespread poverty and enhance food security in
the arid districts of Turkana, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu,



- 4 -
and the arid divisions of Baringo District; and (b) conserve the natural resource base in the arid
lands through: (i) improving crop and livestock resilience to drought; (ii) increasing economic
linkages with the rest of the economy; and (iii) improving basic health services, water supply
and other social services.
13. Project Description. The project would have three components. The three mutually
reinforcing components will attempt to address the two most pressing concems currently faced
by the ALs populations--pervasive poverty and poor living conditions on the one hand, and
degradation of the ALs natural resource base, on the other.
(a)  Drought Management (US$10.9 million (including contingencies), or 43 percent
of total project costs). This component would institutionalize at the national and
district levels a structure to effectively manage all the phases of drought. These
include preparedness (drought monitoring), mitigation (drought contingency planning
and rapid reaction) and recovery (continued drought relief activities). The project will
build on the successful model for drought monitoring piloted under the previous
project.
(b)  Marketing and Infrastructure (US$3.4 million, or 13 percent of total project
costs). Under this component a community based approach will be used to determine
actions which can be taken to create an improved marketing environment. These
actions may include: (a) rehabilitation of stock routes, water points and other
infrastructure facilities; (b) development of new and rehabilitation of existing market-
related infrastructure, including animal holding grounds, animal marketing centers
and slaughter houses; (c) improvement and strengthening of the Livestock Marketing
Information System; and (d) development of user-related initiatives in marketing of
animals.; and
(c)  Community Development (US$5.9 million (including, US$ 1.3 million for potential
extended CD coverage - para. 14), or 24 percent). This pilot component is designed
to achieve the fundamental objective of increasing the communities' capacities to
protect and develop their livelihoods by dealing with the drought cycles in an effective
way. The project will be instrumental in assisting each of the line ministries involved
to improve and adapt their mode of intervention and organization to the specific
conditions in the ALs so as to become responsive to the communities' specific needs
and demands. Participatory Learning for Action (PLA) is the major tool to confirm
the assessment of what the communities consider to be their priorities and to take into
account socio economic, environmental and other differences between various areas
in order to tailor and adapt the line ministries' service delivery system in the entire
district. PLA teams (two per district), will be constituted to carry out this exercise in
selected communities. Practical proposals have been elaborated by each of the line
ministries during project preparation. During project implementation, each of the
district line departments will continue to improve and refine its service delivery
mechanism on the basis of local conditions and field experience and will identify
which local NGOs and other local organizations can be involved as implementers.
Depending on community choice, the micro-projects to be supported under the CD
component could include low-cost rural water supply, animal and human health,
animal husbandry/ marketing, crop production and other essential off-farm income-
generating activities. The component also includes provision for training and studies.
Training under CD would be targeted at the planners and policy makers, field
implementors, community leaders and other community members, while two major



- 5 -
sets of studies would be undertaken. The studies would focus on (i) development of a
policy and legal framework to address the continuing degradation of the natural
resource base, and (ii) a thorough study of the land tenure and grazing rights in this
area, with recommendations (i.e., proposed instruments) for protecting and enforcing
the rights of pastoralists. The project would also support the formulation of policy and
requisite legal actions to protect pastoralists' tenurial and other rights. The
Government has provided a Letter of Sectoral Policy defining its position on the
substantive policy and operational issues that would affect project implementation.
14. Project Implementation Support (US$4.9 million). With a view to supporting and
strengthening the institutional capacity to implement the above three components, the proposed
project would provide for implementation support to line ministries through financing
incremental operating costs, vehicles and equipment and training. The first two components
would be implemented over a six-year period, while the CD component would initially be
implemented in only four districts over a four year period. Provided the findings at mid-term are
posit.ve, CD would be continued for the full project term of six years and its coverage will be
extended to the remaining districts.
15. Project Implementation. The project will be implemented through the respective line
ministries and through collaborating agencies in each of the Arid Lands districts. To be
successful, however, the line ministries would have to modify their operational style and
procedures to adequately address the exigencies of the ALs. Building on the experience
acquired under the previous EDRP, the ALRMP will provide strong support and guidance to
meet this challenge. Specifically, the Department of Relief and Rehabilitation in the Office of the
President would have the responsibility for coordinating overall project implementation, as well
as for establishing an overall policy for drought management and the maintenance of the drought
monitoring system and will support the line ministries and collaborating agencies to become
effective in the field.
16.   Project Financing. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.1 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$7 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$22.0 million
would finance about 88 percent of project costs, net of duties and taxes. A breakdown of costs
and the financing plan are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and
disbursements, and the disbursement schedule, are shown in Schedule C. A timetable of key
processing events and the status of Bank group operations are given in Schedules D and E,
respectively.
17. Lessons Learned. Both the successes and failures of the current and past development
interventions in ALs have lessons for the proposed project. The key lessons are: (i) in these
predominantly pastoralist communities (with strong tribal and clan structures), sustainable
development will only be possible if the project addresses objectives articulated by the
community, whose priorities can oscillate between development and survival; thus, community
ownership of the project is essential for its success; (ii) project interventions should be simple,
so that the communities can manage them (the technologies used should be affordable); (iii) the
program should expand only as the absorptive capacities of the districts and the communities
improve; (iv) building capacities of the communities, adapting the delivery systems of the
governmental structures in the arid lands and the participation of non-govemmental agencies
and the Government's institutional structures are essential to the success of development
interventions; and finally (v) development programs where funds from donors flow directly to
the project implementors (in the field) have performed well. Since Bank/ IDA funds are
channeled through the Govemment budgetary and accounting process, the establishment of an
effective arrangement for ensuring timely flow of funds to the implementing agencies (in the



- 6 -
field) is essential. These lessons have been incorporated in the project design and the proposed
implementation arrangements. For instance, community participation has a pivotal role in
carrying out project activities. Further, project preparation has addressed implementation
capacity issues and existing institutional arrangements will be adapted and strengthened.
18. Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement. The project is
consistent with the Bank's Country, Sector and Environmental strategies, and supports the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the Board in April 1994. It is also
consistent with the current CAS which is expected to be discussed by the Board in January
1996. The focus of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy is poverty reduction through
accelerated growth and employment generation. This strategy emphasizes macroeconomic
stability, improved public sector efficiency and development of an export-oriented private sector,
as well as strengthening the basis for equitable and sustainable development by addressing
longer-term human resource issues and arresting the deterioration of Kenya's fragile
environment. The CAS seeks to advance such objectives through the country dialogue, and by
supporting efforts to alleviate population pressures and develop the ASALs, as part of the
country assistance program. ALRMP's components and implementation strategy are thus in
accordance with the CAS; the project specifically supports the CAS objective of
strengthening the basis for equitable and environmentally sustainable economic
development. With its focus on providing basic social services and environmental protection,
the proposed ALRMP is a central feature of IDA's "core" lending programn. The proposed
ALRMP is a Program of Targeted Interventions, aimed at assisting the pastoralists in the arid
districts, who are counted among the poorest of Kenya's population. It seeks to reduce the
chronic poverty and enhance food security in these districts, at the samne time strengthening and
supporting local community-driven initiatives to better manage dry woodlands, critical grazing
reserves and other fragile environments in these and areas. The project design draws from the
findings and recommendations of the recently finalized Kenya Poverty Assessment, prepared
by IDA in close consultation with the Government and with the support of several donors. The
proposed project incorporates substantial beneficiary participation, and seeks to build capacity
within local communities to take advantage of development opportunities and assigns an active
collaborative role to the NGOs and other local social organizations/bodies. The proposed
ALRMP is also a logical follow-up to the EDRP, which has successfully initiated various
environmentally sustainable drought management and mitigation activities in the ALs. These
activities would be expanded and strengthened under the proposed project. Project
implementation strategy and components have been designed in accordance with the
Government's stated policies on ASAL development, and proposed project initiatives would be
underpinned by the ongoing implementation of the National Environment Action Plan
(NEAP).
19. Agreed Actions. At negotiations, agreements and assurances regarding the project's
organizational and operational arrangements were obtained, and inter alia included the
following: (a) the National Drought Management Secretariat and the sub-units dealing with
drought management will be integrated into the regular Govermment institutional structure and
drought management will become a long-term Government function; (b) the Government will
ensure that communities undertaking microprojects contribute at least 30 percent of the cost of
these microprojects; (c) the District Works Officers will annually prepare a plan of critical spot
repairs to roads, and execute it after DSG approval; (d) an evaluation of the impact of project
interventions will be carried out at mid-term as well as in the final year of project implementation
and the design, format and timeframe of the baseline survey will be finalized; (e) studies (to
review the legal framework concerning pastoralists' tenurial and grazing rights) will be



- 7 -
completed in the second year of the project; and a plan of action will be drawn up in consultation
with IDA to implement the recommendations made under these studies within an agreed
timeframe; and (f) the Government and IDA shall monitor and review the operations and
effectiveness of the district financing mechanism from time to time. If the joint review
concludes that the financing mechanism is not effective, the Government shall, within three
months of being notified by IDA, introduce and implement such modifications of the mechanism
or of the applicable administrative and financial rules and procedures as would have been agreed
upon with IDA. The two conditions of Board Presentation have been fulfilled by the
Government by furnishing: (i) a Letter of Sectoral Policy; and (ii) overdue audit reports for
EDRP for FY93 (audits for FY94 for the Emergency Drought Recovery Project have also been
received). As Conditions of Credit Effectiveness, the Government would inter alia: (a) enter into
a contract, satisfactory to IDA, with a firm to carry out studies referred to in (e) above; (b)
furnish evidence that key project staff, acceptable to IDA, have been recruited and started work;
(c) make appropriate provision of funds in the budget for year one of the project (and ensure
availability) in terms of the agreed Annual Work Plan for meeting project expenditures as soon
as the project becomes effective; and (d) furnish evidence that the project's financial
management and accounting system is in place and operating.
20. Poverty Category - Program of Targeted Interventions. The project is a targeted
poverty reduction initiative. It intends to reduce widespread poverty and enhance food security in
the ALs. The predominantly pastoralist populations in the arid districts, are counted among the
poorest and the most disadvantaged sections of society in the country. The ALs have fewer than
2.2 doctors and 15 nurses per 100,000 population compared with the national average of 15 and
25, respectively. About 43 percent of the primary school-age children in the ALs enroll in
schools compared with the national average of 95 percent. Literacy in the ALs districts is
estimated at below 20 percent, compared with the Kenyan average of 69 percent and infant
mortality is almost twice the national average. Further, the trends in infant and child mortality
rates show little signs of improvement; similarly, education and literacy figures show little
improvement over the years. In terms of infrastructure, the ALs are poorly served by roads and
have limited access to sources of energy. The ALs have 40 km of roads per 1000 sq km, while
the average for other areas in Kenya is almost 200 km; the ALs populations consume less than
one-hundredth of the average per capita electrical power consumption in the country. The ALs
populations are isolated from the social and economic mainstream, and their access to markets
for livestock products, the main economic assets of these populations, is poor (this situation is
exacerbated by tribal conflicts). Thus, a population of around one million people with poor
linkages with the rest of the economy, faces a deteriorating natural resource base, declining food
security and deepening poverty. The three mutually reinforcing project components are designed
to help reduce the poverty of the ALs populations through benefits such as, enhanced market
linkages (and thereby, improved livestock off-take and farm gate prices), the reduction in
drought inflicted losses, increase in off-farm income generation capacity and provision of basic
social services for an improved quality of life.
21. Environmental Aspects. The arid areas are frequently affected by drought, which, given
the loss of dry-season grazing land and poorly conceived drought mitigation activities of the last
forty years, has had adverse environmental impact. The project would formulate a set of
initiatives to better manage these fragile lands during droughts, and would foster community
participation through their design and implementation (which would also build a greater
awareness of environmental management issues among the participating communities, NGOs
and Govemment agencies). The framework and guidelines for the proposed ALRMP are based
on the Environmental Action Plan for the ASALs in Kenya. A NEAP for Kenya, prepared with



-8 -
assistance from IDA, was completed in June 1994. An independent environmental review was
completed for this category "B" project. The review which anticipates no negative
environmental impacts resulting from the proposed project (which is designed to use
community-based, low-cost, sustainable resource management techniques), determines that,
ALRMP would in fact, contribute significantly to improving the management of fragile
environments in the ALs. In addition, improved management of the ALs would translate into
direct economic gains for the local populations by way of increased fodder and fuelwood
supplies in the medium term.
22. Program Objective Categories. As almost the entire project area population is below the
poverty line, poverty reduction is the primary focus of the project. The proposed project would
facilitate the integration of the largely marginalized ALs populations within the economic
mainstream. The CD component will help meet basic social needs, in particular of women and
children, through the provision of a package of health, nutrition and food security. A related and
equally important objective of the project is the conservation of the natural resource base of the
ALs. ALRMP would strengthen and support local initiatives to better manage dry woodlands
and other fragile environments, improving the longer-term viability of pastoral communities.
23. Participatory Approach. Initial project preparation was undertaken by a Government
inter-ministerial plarming team. At appraisal, all the target districts were visited and several
planning workshops held to involve field implementers in the design of the project. With regard
to implementation procedures, the workshops examined the applicability of the proposed
procedures in the context of existing implementation capacities in the target districts. In addition
to the participants in the workshops, field agencies, some local NGOs and bilateral donor-
funded initiatives in these areas were also consulted. Attempts were also made to involve
potential beneficiaries in the final project preparation exercises; the initial guidelines for
community participation were developed by undertaking community-oriented planning exercises
with pastoralist communities on location. Community participation has thus been fostered
through following a bottom-up approach and beneficiary involvement in project design. The ALs
communities will plan and implement initiatives under the project. Communities will be
assisted by the governmental line ministries, NGOs and local self-help groups who would also
provide related training and follow-up, depending on the requirements. Communities would
participate in the improvement of the livestock marketing system and its management within
their respective territories; in reporting for the drought Drougth Monitoring System; in
identifying and helping to plan and prepare a shelf of projects for drought preparedness; and later
on, in drought mitigation activities and post-drought recovery initiatives.
24. Benefits. The overarching objective of the project is to reduce widespread poverty and
enhance food security in the ALs. The project's participatory planning approach, the
identification of priority actionable areas for ameliorating the quality of life of the ALs
communities and the direct delivery of funds and essential services to communities, are all
targeted towards reducing poverty in the ALs. The poverty reduction strategy under the project,
is aimed at galvanizing broad-based economic growth in the region through improved
management of the ALs poor's most abundant resources - livestock and labor, in conjunction
with the improved management of the natural resources of the region. The project would
significantly increase the income of the largely pastoralist population through: (i) reduction im
mortality rates of the livestock, particularly, in periods of drought; thus, the main benefit of the
project's drought management activities would be the reduction of livestock losses due to the
droughts which regularly devastate these areas. In the 1992 drought, approximately 46 percent
of cattle, 31 percent of small ruminants and 21 percent of camels perished. Improved drought
management would also lead to less deterioration of the general condition of the animals which



- 9 -
should result in better prices when they are sold. Keeping more animals alive during a drought
will have substantial nutritional benefits to the population and reduce the need for costly food
imports or aid and help minimize disruption of the pastoralist economy; (ii) improvements in
animal health and increased volume of sales; the project would lead to improvements in average
annual offtake rates, through strengthening market linkages of the ALs and supporting improved
delivery of animal health services leading to more rapid herd growth (improved fertility and
reduced mortality rates). A robust domestic/export market for livestock products exists in
Kenya; hence, the additional output would be readily absorbed. Furthermore, the improved
incomes of the arid lands populations would have a multiplier effect through increased trade
with the rest of the economy; (iii) increases in farm-gate prices due to both the improvements in
quality of livestock offered by the ALs pastoralists, and the reduction in transportation and other
transaction costs.
25.   The other mutually reinforcing element of the project's poverty reduction strategy relates
to the development of off-farm income generation activities/micro-enterprises, which while
helping push up the standard of living in the area, would both reduce the dependence on
/depletion of ALs' natural resources, and help stabilize incomes in the drought years. Support
would take the form of training, and seed capital for the micro-enterprises. On the basis of
community preferences, microproj ects to address education, nutrition, health and reproductive
issues, will be undertaken. These micro-projects would help meet basic social needs, in
particular of women and children, and will enhance the quality of life and increase the
productivity of the local communities, as well as improving their income base/potential.
Although a precise assessment of the overall economic or financial costs and benefits arising
from the CD component is not feasible, the project is designed to draw upon the least cost
options for undertaking the proposed initiatives in the project area.
26.    ALRMP is also envisaged to have a beneficial environmental impact by seeking to
contain the deterioration of the fragile ecosystem and reducing the incidence of desertification.
The project will contribute significantly to improving the management of fragile environments in
the ALs by strengthening the ability of the pastoral communities to plan and implement
appropriate development initiatives, to control access to critical grazing reserves, and to
encourage their rehabilitation. The project seeks to empower communities and foster genuine
local ownership of the development process in Kenya through assigning a pivotal role to the AL
communities in making development decisions. Not only did the ALs communities play a crucial
role in the design of the project, but they will continue to be heavily involved in its
implementation. The project is part of a larger National Drought Management Programme, and
fits in with Kenya's national strategy for handling droughts. It is also providing a model for
delivery of services to some of the poorest, remotest communities in Kenya - through community
empowerment and participatory development. All aspects of the project should lead to an overall
decrease in dependence on food aid.
27. Economic Analysis. The cost! benefit analysis undertaken for the project indicates that,
even with modest assumptions about the quantifiable project benefits, the potential retums from
ALRMP will be fairly substantial. The NPV of the project benefits (net of all project investment
and recurrent costs) discounted at 10 percent, is very conservatively estimated at US$ 10.5
million. However, this amount does not include the substantial non-quantifiable benefits
expected to be generated by the project. An ERR of 16.9 percent is calculated for the project.
Results from switching value analysis for an ERR of 10 percent which is the Opportunity Cost of
Capital, demonstrate that a significant change in benefits or costs, i.e. a 34 percent drop in total
(quantifiable) benefits, or a large increase of 51 percent in costs would be required in order to
reduce the ERR to 10 percent. Sensitivity Analysis shows that an enormous decline of 70



- 10-
percent in total benefits would be essential in order for the ERR to drop to zero percent.
Conversely, an exponential increase of 200 percent in total project costs would push the ERR to
zero percent. If all quantifiable benefits envisaged to accrue from the drought mitigation/
management interventions under ALRNP are excluded from the total benefits stream, the
project's ERR would decline from 16.9 percent to 10.4 percent; if instead, the benefits from the
marketing and infrastructure improvements under the project are excluded, the ERR drops to 5.3
percent. The exclusion of the CD component benefits reduces the ERR to 14.4 percent. The
overall risk or probability that project NPV is negative is minimal; even with the systematic
exclusion from the total benefits stream, of first the benefits accruing from the Drought
Management Component, and alternately, of the benefits from the CD component, the NPV
remains positive. If however, all quantifiable benefits from the Marketing Infrastructure
component are excluded, the NPV drops well below zero. Nevertheless, this scenario is highly
improbable. Given the fairly strong market for livestock products in Kenya, it is unlikely that no
quantifiable benefits would accrue from this market-oriented component over the project life and
beyond; a significant drop of 65 percent or more (in the total benefits from this important
component) would be essential for the NPV of total net project benefits to drop below zero.
28. Project Sustainability. The project is sustainable from a fiscal perspective. The
Government is expected to contribute around US$ 2.0 million of the project costs over the 6 year
implementation period, which is feasible based on current budgetary allocations (the allocation
for EDRP in 1995/96 was K. Shs 540 million, equivalent to about US$ 12 million, and KShs.
630 million (US$ 14 million) in 1994/95). After the credit closes, the impact of drought
management expenditures on the Government budget would be approximately US$330,000
annually (the O&M allocation for EDRP in 1995/96 was K. Shs 32.6 million, equivalent to
about US $ 700,000). The drought management units would be integrated into the regular
Government institutional structure, and drought management will become a long-term
Government function. Communities would have an important role in operating drought early
warning systems, as well as in mitigation and recovery efforts. Livestock routes would be
maintained by the communities, with technical back-up from NGOs and district-based
government agencies, and once the animals reach the inter-linkage points (to be developed as
market centers under the project), private trade will take over and sustain marketing. The CD
Component would enable the communities to plan, implement and maintain microprojects in
response to the priorities they have defined. Sustainability, ensured by community responsibility
and commitments to operate and maintain assets, would be fundamental to the design of
microprojects and also a pre-condition for funding under the ALRMP.
29. Risks. There are three main risks. First, due to the inadequacy of implementation capacity
and lack of coordination at community, district and national levels, implementation through
districts and communities may not work effectively . To mitigate this risk, the project aims to
further adapt the institutional arrangements and capacity at the district level with the strong
coordination role of the Office of the President which is currently in place under EDRP and
generally functioning adequately. Second, the project would require a strong team effort to
facilitate the participatory process; large geographical areas with poor means of communication
would add to the risk. However, the adaptation of government delivery systems to the arid lands
conditions, the involvement of non-government agencies with a history of successful experience
in the areas, a strong orientation and training program, and the proposed decentralized
institutional arrangements would help minimize this risk. In addition, some of the proposed sub-
components will follow successful patterns established in PIDP, EDRP and development
initiatives supported by bilateral and non-governmental agencies. Third, flow of funds has been



- I1 -
the most intractable issue in Kenya and principally responsible for unsatisfactory project
performance. This would be addressed by a combination of recent initiatives in several ongoing
projects, such as, providing the budget for the project under one vote of the coordinating
ministry; applying the flow of funds approach' currently being used successfully under EDRP;
and frequent review of the district financing mechanism. In the event that the review reveals
that the mechanism is not effective, modification of the mechanisms or the applicable
administrative and financial rules and procedures would be introduced, as needed. There is also
the likelihood of social conflicts affecting the stock routes subcomponent, by delaying the
rehabilitation of some of the stock routes. Efforts at conflict resolution are already being
undertaken by district administrations. Furthermore, the involvement of NGOs and a phased
implementation approach whereby project activities are first launched in the secure areas would
minimize this risk.
30. Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
November 14, 1995



- 12 -
Schedule A
KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
(US$ Million)
Local      Foreign        Total
Drought Management                  7.4          2.8          10.2
Infrastructure and Marketing        2.0          1.1           3.1
Community Development               4.4          1.1           5.5
Project Implementation Support      3.1          1.4           4.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                16.9         6.4          23.3
Physical Contingencies             0.3          0.3           0.6
Price Contingencies                0.8          0.4           1.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                 18.0         7.1          25.1
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ million)
International   Government
Development        and
Project Components            Association     Beneficiaries    Total'
Drought Management                           9.9             1.0          10.9
Marketing and Infrastructure                 3.1            0.3            3.4
Community Development                        4.8            1.1            5.9
Project Implementation Support               4.2            0.7            4.9
TOTAL (US$ million)                         22.0            3.1I         25.1



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 1 of 3
Present Value of Project Benefits & Costs
Quantifiable Economic/ Financial Benefits                            (USS '000)
Reduced Mortality from Drought Management                               9,912
Improved Sales from strengthening of mkt. infrastructure                16,278
Increased Income from off-farm micro-enterprises                        3,652
Increased income from water (boreholes, home gardens, labor savings)     842
Increased income from better employment of 5% receiving education        129
Total Quantifiable Benefits                                             30.814
Project Costs & Post-Project Recurrent Costs                  l
Drought management component                                            9,721
Marketing infrastructure component                                      2,583
CD component                                                            4,704
Project Support Unit                                                    3,344
Total Costs                                                             20,352
Net Benefits from Project                                               10,462
IRR: 16.9%
Overall Risk: Probability that NPV < 0 is minimal.
Key Assumptions:
- Discount Rate: 10%; Project Life: 20 years; Real Exchange Rate Constant.
- Economic prices assumed to be close to financial prices, due to recent extensive price reforms in Kenya.
- All taxes/duties/other transfers to GOK have been excluded from project benefits & costs; realistically,
the fiscal impact (taxes and other transfers to GOK) of project benefits is expected to be negligible, due to
informal nature of the livestock & labor markets in the ALs.
- Drought inflicted losses (primarily high livestock mortality rates) conservatively expected to be reduced by
about 25%.
- The improvements in livestock quality and reduced marketing costs are envisaged to result in a modest
10% price premium for livestock.
- Improvements in marketing infrastructure are conservatively expected to increase annual sales of livestock
by 10 to 20% over current rates.
- A modest 10% improvement in the gross incomes of about 15% of the ALs population who are expected
to set up primarily off-farm income generating micro-enterprises with project support.
- Improved employment opportunities (and hence income) of 5% of the young adults receiving formal
education through educational facilities supported under the project.
- Increased food production in home gardens, labor savings and revenues from operation of water facilities,
albeit nominal, are some of the other quantified project benefits.
Nature of Benefits: Enhanced market linkages (and thereby, improved livestock offiake and farm gate
prices), increase in off-farm income generation capacity, reduction in drought inflicted losses, and provision
of basic social services for an improved quality of life.
Main Beneficiaries: The ALs pastoralists are among the poorest, most disadvantaged peoples in Kenya, and
they receive a fraction of the health, nutrition & education services available to the rest of the Kenyans. In
addition to the ALs communities, various NGOs, Government and local self-heli ir.stitutions involved in
ALRMP, would benefit.



- 14 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 3
Financial Summary
(US$ millions & %)
1996  1997  1998  1999   2000  2001   2002   2003   2004
Implementation Period            Operational Period
Project Costs
Investment Costs          3.2   2.3   3.8   3.7    1.4   1.2        -       -       -
Recurrent Costs          1.3   2.7   1.4   1.5    1.3   1.3    0.5    0.5    0.5
Total                          4.5   5.0   5.2   5.2    2.7   2.5    0.5    0.5    0.5
Percentages                     Percentages
Financing Sources
IDA                        89    90    90    87        85    80       -       -      -
GOK & Communities1          11    10    10    13        15    20    100    100    100
Total                          100   100   100   100    100   100    100    100    100



Schedule B
Page 3 of 3
Key Performance Indicators
Activity                                     Indicator                                                             1996        1997       1998       1999       2000        2001
Drought Management
Implementation of drought monitoring system  number of monthly drought reports(national and district)                 08        132        132        132         132        132
Establishment of Drought Contingency Fund    availability of fund                                                    Y           y y        y                     y           Y
Establishment of emergency cereal reserve    number of district cereal reserves                                      5          10          10         10         10         10
Elaboration of drought contingency plans     accepted by District Steering Group                                                 5          5
Drought mitigation interventions             number of operational grazing reserves                                              5          10         10         10         10
Marketing and infrastructure
Holding grounds/stockroutes/market centers   identified and planned                                                  8          16          24
implemented                                                                        8          24         48         48         48
Ln      Conmurity Development
Support to animal health and livestock        number of Community Animal Health Workers trained and operational      500       1000        1000       1000       1000        1000
increase in percentage of vaccination coverage                                    5%         5%          5%         5%         5%
percentage decrease in cattle and goat pneumonia                                  5%         5%          5%         5%         5%
increase in offtake of animals                                                   0 50/o     0.50/%     0.50/       0.50/      0.50%/
Support to crop production                    number of demonstration plots                                         1000        2000       3000       3000       3000        3000
percentage increase in yields of major crops (maize, sorghum, tomato)             3%         3%          3%         3%         3%
Water supply                                  number ofnew water supply units                                        40         40          80         80         100        100
number of Community Water Workers trained and operational              200        300        400         500        600        600
Human health                                  number of Traditional Birth Attendants trained and operational         100        200        300         400        400        400
number of Community Health Workers trained and operational             50         100        150         200        200        200
percentage decline in common diseases                                             3%         3%          3%         3%         3%
percentage decline in child mortality rate                                        5%         5%          5%         5%         5%
Training                                     number of staff participating in initial training                      looo        500        200         200        200        200



- 16 -
Schedule C
Page 1 of 2
Summary of Proposed Project Procurement Arrangements'
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Item               ICB        LCB        LS         Other   Total
Civil Works                       5.1                  0.5        5.6
(4.6)                (0.4)      (5.0)
Vehicles and Equipment       2.5        1.2       0.2                   3.9
(2.5)     (1.2)     (0.2)                 (3.9)
Training                                             0.7        0.7
(0.7)     (0.7)
Technical Assistance                                        1.7       1.7
(1.7)     (1.7)
Community                                              3.7        3.7
Development Fund                                          (2.6)      (2.6)
Incremental Operating                                       9.5        9.5
Costs                                              (8.1)      (8.1)
TOTAL                 2.5       6.3        0.2       16.1       25.1
(2.5)     (5.8)     (0.2)      (13.5)     (22.0)



- 17 -
Schedule C
Page 2 of 2
Summary of Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements
Amount
Items                        (US$            % of Expenditures to be
Million)             Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works                            4.2                      90%
2. Vehicles and Equipment                  3.6          100% of foreign costs and 90% of
local costs
3. Training and Technical Assistance      2.2                      100%
4. Community Development Fund             2.5                      70%'
5. Incremental Operating Costs
a) Vehicle O&M                            1.8                      90%
b) All other O&M                          5.9        90% for expenditures incurred before
December 31, 1997, 80% for
expenditures before December 31,
1999, 75% thereafter
6. Refunding of the PPF                   0.2                   Amounts due
7. Unallocated                             1.6
TOTAL                              22.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Annual            4.0    4.5    4.7    4.5    2.3    2.0
Cumulative        4.0    8.5    13.2   17.7   20.0   22.0



- 18 -
Schedule D
TIMETABLE FOR KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
(a)     Time taken to prepare                            14 months
(b)    Prepared by                                       A Government Task Force,
comprising representatives from the
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock
Development and Marketing; Land
Reclamation, Regional and Water
Development; and Office of the
President.
(c)     First IDA Mission                                February 1994
(d)     Appraisal Mission Departure                      June 27, 1994'
(e)     Negotiations                                     March 27-April 3, 1995
(f)     Planned Date of Effectiveness                    April 30, 1996
(g)    Relevant PCRs                                     Kenya - Animal Health Services
Project (No. 13836)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June-August 1994. The mission was led by Satish
Kumar, Senior Services Specialist, Regional Mission in East Africa, and included: Messrs./Mmes. Christine
Cornelius (Institutions), Mbuba Mbungu (Procurement); John Nyaga (Finance and Audits), Milena
Hileman (Anthropologist); M.L. Mehta (Drought Management); E. J. Byrne (Community Development), George
Njiru, (Marketing); John Kevany (Nutrition and Health); Said Al-Habsy (Kenya Lawyer, Legal Department). The
Mission was assisted by and worked cooperatively with the Government Planning Team (GPT) comprising:
A.O. Esmail, V. Lelei, S. Mwichabe, John Fox, James Ndirangu and J. Mutea. Contributions were also rnade by
Mr./ Mimes. Gajanand Pathmanathan (Senior Economist, AF2AE), Preeti Ahuja (Financial Analyst, AF2AE)
and Donna Criddle (Operations Analyst, AF2AE). The peer reviewers are Harry Walters (AFTHR), Walter
Lusigi (GEF) and Jerry Silverman (AFTES). S. Barghouti (SA2AW) is the Lead Adviser. Sushma Ganguly and
James W. Adams are the Managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively.



- 19 -
SCHEDULE E
Page I of 3
STATUS OF BANK GROIJP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IIDA CREDIT'S
(as of September 30, 1995)
Fifty-four (54) loans and sixty seven (67) credits          985.87      1D22.83      6.62
closed, of which SAL, SECAL or Programn Loan/Credit:       (60.90)     (925.53k
Cr.19040      1988      Population I11                                    12 09       5.29
Cr.19730      1989      Geothermal Deveiopment                            40.70      3.50
Cr.20600      1990      Third Nairobi Water Supply                        64.80     26.29
Cr.20620      1990      Coffee Improvement 11                             46.80      18.02
Cr.21110      1990      Population IV                                     35.v0     32.35
Cr.21980      1991      forestry Development                              19.90      13.20
Cr.21990      1991      National Agric. Ext. 11                           24.90      18.64
Cr.22040 a/   1991      Agric. Sector Adjust. 11                          41.52      5.92
Cr.23090      1992      Universities Investment                           55.00     50.70
Cr.23100      1992      Health Rehabilitation                             i1.00     26.25
Cr.23330      1992      Mombasa and Coastal Water 11                      4 320     32.42
Cr.23340      1992      Wildlife Services                                 60.50     34.48
Cr.24400      1993      Parastatal Refonn TA                              23.32     19.43
Cr.24450      1993      Agric. Sect. Mngt. ll                             19.40      14.99
Cr.24600      1993      Emergency Droughit Recovery                       20.00      13.77
Cr.25960      1994      Micro & Srnll Enterprise                          '1.83     21.76
Cr.26710      1995      Institutional Development                         25.3.5    2A. .01
Cr.26860      1995      Sexually Transmitted Infections                   40.00     40 40
rotal                              985.87      2148.14    401.42
of which repaid                   708.62        55.09
Total held by Bank & IDA           277.25      2093.05
Amount sold    11.74
of which repaid 11.74
Total undisbursed                                         408.04
a/ SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit.



- 20 -                                          SCHEDULE E
Page 2 of 3.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN KENYA
(as of September 30, 1995)
1967/73      a/       Kenya Hotel Properties            Hotels and Tourism                    4.20     0.72      0.96    5.88
1970/74/77/79/
1981/88/90/94 a/      Panafrican Paper Mills            Timber. Pulp and Paper               52.26     5.79      3.97   62.02
1972                  Tourism Promotion Ser              Hotels and Tourism                   1.63     0.00      0.79    2.42
1976                  Rift Valley Textiles Ltd          Textiles                              6.87     2.77      1.30   10.94
1977         a/       X-Loans to Sml & Med Co.           Financial Services                   2.00     0.00      0.00    2.00
1980/84               Development Finance Co.            Financial Services                   5.07     1.31      0.00    6.38
1981         a/       Kenya Commercial Finance           Financial Services                   5.00     0.00      0.00    5.00
1982                  Bamburi Portland Cement            Cement & Construction                4.43     0.00      0.00    4.43
1982                  Diamond Trust of Kenya             Financial Services                   0.00     0.80      0.00    0.80
1982/87               Industrial Promotion Services      Financial Services                   0.00     1.17      0.00    1.17
1983        a/        Tetra Pak Converters Ltd.          Timber, Pulp and Paper               2.17     0.37      0.00    2.54
1984/92               Leather Industries of Kenya        Manufacturing                        2.12     0.63      0.00    2.75
1986        a/        Madhupaper lntemational           Timber. Pulp and Paper                8.50     1.97     28.65   39.12
1986                  Oil Crop Development Ltd.          Food and Agribusiness                9.65     1.40      0.00   11.05
1986                  Equatorial Beach Properties        Hotels and Tourism                   3.67     0.00      0.00    3.67
1988/92               Ukulima Tools Ltd.                 Motor Vehicles and Comp.             0.00     0.06      0.00    0.06
1989                  Premier Foods Industries           Food and Agribusiness                0.00     0.11      0.00    0.11
1989                  Premier Refrigeration & Frigoken Ltd. Food and Agribusiness             0.00     0.14      0.00    0.14
1990                  Premier Refrigeration & Frigoken Ltd. Food and Agribusiness             0.00     0.06      0.00    0.06
1991                  Malaa Industries Ltd.             Food and Agribusiness                 0.53     0.16      0.00    0.69
1991                  Novaskins Tannery Ltd.            Manufacturing                         0.00     0.14      0.00    0.14
1992                 Integrated Wood Complex            Timber, Pulp and Paper                0.40     0.00      0.00    0.40
1992/93               Allpack Industries Ltd.           Timber, Pulp and Paper               0.00      0.36      0.00    0.36
1993                  Future Hotels Ltd.                Hotels and Tourism                    0.50     0.00      0.00    0.50
1994                  Aura Garments Mfg.                Textiles                              0.30     0.00      0.00    0.30
1994                  East Africa Reinsurance Co.       Financial Services                    0.00     1.10      0.00    1.10
1994                  Mosi Ltd.                         Food and Agribusiness                0.29      0.00      0.00    0.29
1994                  SawaFlora Ltd.                    Food and Agribusiness                 0.32     0.19      0.00    0.51
1994                  Waterfront Hospitality            Hotels and Tourism                    1.00     0.00      0.00    1.00
1995                  Capital Fish Kenya Ltd.           Food and Agribusiness                0.65      0.00      0.00    0.65
1995                 Intemational Hotels                Hotels and Tourism                    6.00     0.00      0.00    6.00
1995                  Kihingo Roses Ltd.                Food and Agribusiness                0.52      0.00      0.00    0.52
1995                  Vegpro Kenya Ltd.                 Food and Agribusiness               0Q95       0.00     Q0f 00    09
Total Gross Commitments b/                                           119.03    19.25     35.67  173.95
Less: repayments, cancellations, exchange adjustments,
writeoffs, terminations and sales                                 78.44     8.47     35.27  122.18
Total Commitments now held by IFC   c/                                40.59    10.78       0.40   51.77
Pending Commitments:
AEF-Island Farm                                                        0.50      0.00      0.00    0.50
AEF-Kenfunds                                                           0.00      0.17      0.00    0.17
AEF-Kenfunds Mgt                                                       0.00      0.09      0.00    0.09
AEF-Wakatee Center                                                     0.50      0.50      0.00    1.00
Magadi Soda Co.                                                        9.00      0.00      0.00    9.00
Total Pending Commitments                                              10.00     0.76      0.00   10.76
Total Commitments held and Pending Commitments                        50.59     11.54      0.40   62.53
Total Undisbursed Commitments                                          7.92      1.11      0.00    9.03
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written-off, sold. redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of undisbursed and undisbursed investments.



- 21 -
Schedule E
Page 3 of 3
KENYA - IMPLEMENTATION ISSUES
As of September 30, 1995, there were 18 ongoing projects in the Kenya portfolio representing total
commitments, exclusive of cancellations, of $625.4 million. Undisbursed amounts totaled $401.4 million. FY95
disbursements totaling $151.4 million were only slightly below the $168.4 million and $166.8 million disbursed in
FY93 and FY94, respectively. However, the FY95 disbursement ratio (i.e., for investment operations) of 16.3
percent showed an improvement over the respective FY93 and FY94 ratios of 14.2 peTcent and 15.4 percent.
Disbursements for investment operations during the first quarter of FY96 were $29.8 million (translating into a
disbursement ratio of 6.6 percent).
As of September 30, 1995, four of the 18 ongoing credits were rated (in the course of the FY95 ARPP
exercise) as "problem" projects - all four were carryovers from the FY94 exercise. Since the FY95 ARPP
exercise, one of these projects has been upgraded to "satisfactory" in view of progress made in meeting
outstanding policy-related conditionalities; another project is being restructured; and for the remaining two
projects, action programs for addressing outstanding issues (procurement in one instance; inadequate budgetary
allocations and noncompliance with financial covenants) have been agreed with the Government. The FY95
experience in dealing with these problem projects and a number of developments as elaborated below, should
result in an improved FY96 portfolio with supervision inputs (i.e., in terms of supervision staffweeks) similar to
the FY95 average of slightly less than 16 staffweeks per project.
However, Government commitment and ownership remains critical to timely and efficient project
implementation, including resolution of major implementation problems if and as they arise. To this extent, IDA
will continue its supervision dialogue and follow-up with the Government, especially through the Resident Mission
and the recently established Operations Unit, on a number of generic implementation issues and corresponding
remedial actions agreed within the CPPR process initiated in August 1994 - the first such exercise since the
October 1990 Country Implementation Review. The major objective of this exercise was to initiate an ongoing
process by which the Borrower would play a greater role in overseeing and monitoring the portfolio. The primary
generic areas for which specific bottlenecks were identified and dated corrective actions agreed, included (a)
provision of adequate budgetary allocations, (b) more timely processing and monitoring of drawdowns and
replenishments of the Special Accounts (which are centrally maintained and managed by the Borrower), and (c)
timely preparation and auditing of all accounts required under IDA-financed projects, and subsequent submission
of the respective audit reports to IDA. A mini-CPPR meeting was held in March 1995 (another review was held
in July) to follow up on progress since last August, and further actions and timeframes agreed within which to
resolve these outstanding issues.
Results have been encouraging, although mixed. With one exception (noted above), the IDA portfolio
was adequately budgeted in FY95. In addition, a number of projects have experienced implementation delays
resulting from counterpart funding not being released in a timely manner - adequate and timely project budgetary
provisions, including counterpart funds, will therefore continue to be a focus of supervision attention during the
coming year. While improvements in special accounts management and utilization are being achieved, progress in
timely submission of required/overdue audit reports has been less-than-anticipated. The ongoing dialogue through
the CPPR process initiated last year is expected to facilitate resolution of these problems. Progress will continue
to be reviewed periodically and additional further corrective steps taken, as necessary. In the meantime, the
Government has been advised that unsatisfactory progress in these areas as per agreed benchmarks will result in
IDA taking appropriate remedial actions and could result in delays in future project processing.






IBRD 26479
SUDAN                                                                                           KENYA
ARID LANDS RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Area
; t TURIC4NA                                                                   0, M, -b,.,
>                           |  ./                              \               To Adds Lake  5,                                    /       'eANIDERA /
*                \            v   I  ThkoUo                                                 )               ,                 MANDER                /
RIFT/;                                                                                                                        /
.<    VALLEY; LWAR              l          EASTERN
MARS/ <T                                                  NORTH
X       L         / /   |   -8   X                    MARSARITr
]-\,                                                                                                      /  WO                 I+ 
F ,N,,6e TALE    N,IgINYANG    SAMBURU
MARALAL                                                                                          UT
y 0 ~~~~~~~~~T"GUBEI                                                                                                                         0  - /  
3L51 jz "       L'J/ |        \     KABArN7lf                                  <                    \                                _ *             |SE
ToG0
i~~~~~~~~E                                      >                             _v/g L_T  noE
i      .  . (<   0w:-RICL ~O             \\        NEIe          B                                                        GARISSAi
-K         5    NAPOK                                " .RAMRJ \ 
R sIFTr               >-RO B NAIROR            OS       KITUI                   l TANA RIVER
O         AMAJOR TOWNS
3 DISTRICT HEADOUARTFRS                         VA   LEY
5rl       NAT ONAL CAP TAL                 A 4,
- IAIN ROADS
NAT ONAL AIRPORTS
AI                                                ; R-sWUNTAI\ 
75JETNRtA iNAAtAITTORTS                              L                            TArsh VO                                  _        _        _        _I; 
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
SUS D STRICT BOUNDARIES                                                  \                                                       A S
V BASA                       E.- AL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIFS                   0WAT FZA RE  IOS
50 SO       '       50       20 Kcrr-                                    ZR   rKENYA 
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                               DABURUND
The bound-ces. colors, denom-nolrons ond  any other mnfor,mntion       soD OE, To                                                               TANTATIA
s       ,osofl GIB th,s m,op do not mply, on the port of The World Bank                               D. E S. A
Group, ony ludg.ellt on the legol status of ony terr-tory, or ony
endorsemnent or occeptance of such boundaries                                                                                          >     & ,AMBIA iL__
JANUARY 1995









...I



