                                     Document of
                                 TheWorldBank




                                                      ReportNo.: 34052




              PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      KENYA

             ARID LANDSRESOURCEMANAGEMENT PROJECT
                              (CREDIT NO. 2797-KE)


                                  October 31,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (Kshs)
1998                                             Kshs.60.00
                           US$1.oo
                           US$1.oo
1999                                             Kshs.70-00
2000                       US$1  .oo             Kshs.76.00
2001                       US$1.oo               Kshs.78.00
2002                       US$l  .oo             Kshs.75.00
2003                       US$l.OO               Kshs.77.00
2004                       US$l.OO               Kshs.78.OO


Abbreviations andAcronyms
AL                Arid Land
ALRMP             Arid Lands Resource Management Project
ASAL              Arid and Semi-AridLand
CAP               Community Action Plan
CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
D C               District Commissioner
D C A             Development Credit Agreement
DDC               District Development Committee
DFID              Department for International Development
DRIRF'            Drought Preparedness Interventionand Recovery Programme
DSG               District Steering Group
DSU               District Support Unit
EDRP              Emergency Drought Recovery Project
EWS               early warning system
FA0               Food and Agricultural Organization
GOK               Government o f Kenya
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
KFSM              Kenya Food Security Meeting
KFSSG             Kenya Food Security Steering Group
MET               Mobile Extension Team
M&E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR               MidTermReview
NGO               Non Governmental Organization
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PMU               Project Management Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PRA               Participatory Rural Assessment
UNWFP             UnitedNations World FoodProgramme
UN                UnitedNations


FiscalYear

Government:               July 1-June 30

Director-General, Operations Evaluation                 :  Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, Operations EvaluationDepartment               :  Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global EvaluationGroup    :  Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                            :  Mr.JohnR.Heath

                                                              i


    OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results, and second, to help develop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percentof.
 the Bank's lending operations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
 importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproaches selected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examines project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
and Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      Institutional DeveIopmen/tImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                        111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................   v

 Key StaffResponsible                ........................................................................................................  v

 Preface   .................................................................................................................................   7

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................     ix

 1 Background
  .                       ..................................................................................................................   1

 2 ProjectDesign
  .                          ...............................................................................................................   3

 3.  Analysis     .........................................................................................................................    7

         Relevance ................................................................................................................. 7
         Efficacy .................................................................................................................... 8
         Efficiency ................................................................................................................          13
        Institutional Development Impact.,........................................................................                            14
         Sustainability.......................................................................................................... 15
         Outcome................................................................................................................             -16
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                    17
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                       17

4.   EvaluationFindings                ...................................................................................................    18

        Statement of Project Objectives ............................................................................. 18
        Monitoring and Evaluation....................................................................................                         18
        Level of Technology ...............................................................................................                   19

5 Lessons
 .              ........................................................................................................................     20

Annex A PerformanceIndicators
            .                                             .................................................................................  23

Annex B BasicData Sheet
           .                                ..............................................................................................   25




This report was preparedby JohnR Heathand John English. Consultant. who assessedthe project in
                                             .
February2005.The report was editedbyWilliam Hurlbut.andRose Gachina providedadministrative
support.


                                                           V



PrincipalRatings

                   ,ppl_l-._-l",-         ICR                     ICR Review*
                                                                      --"------                         PPAR     - - ~ - -
Outcome                               Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                   Non-evaluable                   Non-evaluable
Institutional Development             Substantial                  Substantial                          High
Impact
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                     Satisfactory

* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the Bank.
The ICR Review is an intermediate Operations Evaluation Department (OED) product that seeks to independently verify
the findings of the ICR.


Key StaffResponsible
                                            _.-
Project                              Task ManagedLeader                Division Chief/            Country Director
                                                           _      -    Sector Director
                                                                               ~ -     ~
 Appraisal                           Christine E. Cornelius           Sushma Ganguly               Harold Wackman
 Completion                          Christine E. Cornelius      Karen McConnell Brooks              Makhtar Diop


                                              7




This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Kenya Arid Lands
Resource Management Project (Cr. 27970), for which a credit inthe amount o f
US$22.0 millionwas approved inDecember 1995. The project closed on June 30,
2003, after an 18 month extension. An Implementation Completion Report was
submitted by the Africa Region on December 30,2003.

This report was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based on
the completion report, the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 13692, Novemberl4,
1995),the Development Credit Agreement, and a review o f Bank files. An OED
mission traveled to Kenya inFebruary 2005 where it discussed the project with Bank
staff, relevant government officials, nongovernmental organizations, and
beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance o f all stakeholders and government
officials i s gratefully acknowledged as i s the support o f the World Bank Country
Office inNairobi.

Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPAR was sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. N o comments were
received.


                                               i x


 Summary

 The Kenya Arid Lands ResourceManagement Project grew out o f concerns over the
 highincidence o fpoverty inthe arid lands o fKenya. With increasedhumanand animal
 populations, the traditional range management practices o f pastoralists were becoming
 less and less sustainable. Also, their attempts to maintain stocking levels and failure to
 abandon traditional approaches to coping with drought were leading to degradation o f
 the resourcebase, thus further underminingtheir long-run livelihoods.

 Duringthe late 1980sand early 1990sa donor supported, GOK effort hadbeenmadein
 one district inthe arid lands to devise an improved drought early-warning system and to
 strengthenthe capacity o f local public entities to respond and coordinate drought-related
 assistance. The Arid Lands Project sought to improve and scale up this system to cover
 all the arid districts. Within the overall national goals o f reducing poverty and combating
 the degradation o f national resources, the objectives o f the project were to improve the
 management and mitigation o f droughts; promote the integration o f the population o f the
 arid lands into the mainstream o f the country's economy; and address their development
priorities though community-driven, small-scale initiatives.

The project placed staffinthe target districts and developed the drought monitoring
system, which has provided earlier warning o f drought emergencies than was possible in
the past. The project was instrumental inestablishing District Steering Groups (DSGs),
which included representation from ministries and from nongovernmental agencies
involved indrought relief and related development work. These DSGs helped the
various agencies involved indrought emergencies to coordinate their efforts more
effectively. Surveys o f beneficiaries, NGOs, and donor agencies, show that there has
been a marked improvement inthe response to drought as a result.

The project implemented a program o f community-level projects identified by the
communities ina participatory rural appraisal process. These have included wells and
water sources for livestock, small-scale irrigation, classrooms, clinics, assistance to low-
income households for restocking with small livestock, and community enterprises such
as stores, butcheries, and beekeeping. The communities themselves contribute about 30
percent o f the cost o f the projects and are responsible for implementing them. Most
appear to be operating successfully, but there has been some use o f inappropriate
technology that might prejudice long runeffectiveness.

The project supported some improvements to local livestock markets inthe arid regions,
but these have hadonly a limited impact inimprovingthe links between the pastoralists,
inparticular, andthe economy as awhole. Onthe other hand, there hasbeenanincrease
inherdofftake, suggesting amovetowards more commercial rather than subsistence
management o f herds. Also, through the process o f implementing the projects, the
communities have had to deal directly with local authorities, contractors, and suppliers,
helpingthem gain confidence and experience.

The overall outcome is rated as satisfactory as the project has established a drought
early warning and response system recognized by all stakeholders as successful inthe
eleven districts most adversely affected by drought; helped organize response programs

                                               X



 to the 1999-2001 drought through aid agencies and NGOsthat saved livestock to the
 value o f at least US$lO millionper annum; introduced a range o f measures that assisted
 pastoralists to better manage their livestock and the range and water resources and to
 increase herd offtake to the value o f about $20 millionper year; and supported
 community based interventions that improved infrastructure (improving access to health
 andeducation services) andhelpedthe poorest to recover from the effects o f drought
 andgenerated incomes o f about $2 millionper year.

 Institutional development impact i s rated as high because, beyond developing the
 DSGs as focal points inorganizing the response to drought, the project has empowered
 both government staff at the district level and the local communities, and has increased
 their capacity to tackle emergencies and development problems.

 The activities initiated under the project are being carried forward under a Phase T I
 project and the assessment considers that it is premature to make ajudgment on the
 sustainability o f the operation, which i s rated as non-evaluable.

 The performance o f both the Bank and the Borrower is rated as satisfactory, based on
 the soundness o f the project concept (except for the Bank's statement o f the objectives)
 and the solid implementation performance.

The following lessons may be derived from this project. First, the success o f the project
indicates that, inorder to effectively respondto natural disasters such as drought, there
are two principal requirements: (a) there needs to be a structure inplace at the local
level through which the relevant government departments and non-governmental actors
can meet speedily to address the situation and coordinate their actions; (b) that body
needs to have some resources, not necessarily substantial, to fund initial measures to
address the identified problems, so that response is not delayed by the need to obtain
resources through normal bureaucratic channels.

Second, the statement o f project objectives is important. Care should be taken byboth
the Bank and the Borrower to ensure that the objective statement i s clear and does not
become blurred by vaguely stated goals. This is especially important when, for example,
though the project may be broadly targeted to assist the poor, the nature o f its
interventions i s such that it will be difficult to demonstrate whether it has met a specific
poverty objective.

Third, inoperations like the ALRMP it is important to design, at the outset, performance
indicators to track qualitative as well as quantitative progress on achievement o f
objectives, or to agree at the outset on specific steps to monitor performance inmeeting
qualitative objectives.



                                                                               Vinod Thomas
                                                                            Director-General
                                                                      Operations Evaluation

                                                 1


 1.       Background

 1.1      Inthe past decade Kenya, once the most prosperouscountry inEast Africa,
 has experienced economic decline, a fall inliving standards, and deterioration inthe
 quality o f its institutions. Its per capita income o f U S 3 6 0 in2003 was lower inreal
 terms than its level in 1990. The economy is heavily dependent on agriculture and in
 the arid lands livestock is the major economic activity o f the population that remains
 largely pastoralist.

 1.2      About 75 percent o f the country's land area i s classified as arid or semi-arid.
 The population o f the eleven districts covered by the project is about 2 million, or six
 percent o f the national total. This population has about tripled over the past 40 years
 and been accompanied by substantial increases inanimal numbers, camels and small
 livestock at about the same rate as the population, and cattle by about 1percent per
 year. Inaddition to generally low rainfall, the arid lands are characterized byperiodic
 droughts severe enough to cause significant mortality among livestock, estimated at
 around 40 percent for cattle, 25 percent for small stock and 15 percent for camels ina
 severe drought.

 1.3     The ability o fthe pastoral communities to survive through suchperiods o f
drought has been dependent on their ability to spread their risks. Traditionally,
pastoralists hadresponded to this by adopting a nomadic style of life, movingto areas
where they anticipated (based on experience and understandings with other groups)
that feed would be available for their animals. Such movement has been subject to
increasingpressure inrecent decades as population has increased and as access to the
dry-season grazing areas has been lost to agriculture. Inaddition, insome better
watered parts o f the arid regions, landhas been alienated for ranching, thus further
restricting the pastoralists.

1.4      Suchpressures have sharpened traditional ethnic and clan rivalries over access
to land and water. Inaddition this part o f Kenyaborders on Somalia, Ethiopia and
southern Sudan, regions o f severe unrest which, by the early 199Os, had begunto spill
over the border resulting insome banditry and an increase inavailable weaponry.

1.5      As pressures increased, the nomadic groups have realized that they were
becoming disadvantagedby their lack o f access to the services provided by the
evolving nation states (particularly ineducation and health) and also by their social,
political and economic isolation from the mainstreams o f these states. Inpart the
response o fthe pastoral communities to these pressures has been to adopt a more
permanent pattern o f settlement, and undertake some cropping for subsistence.
However, given their social, political and economic marginality, this has not been an
easy process. Relationships with other parts o f the society and economy take time to
buildup and this process is hamperedbythe poverty ofthe pastoral groups, the lack
o f infrastructure where they live and their access to services.

1.6      Almost all the population of the arid lands can be classified as below the
poverty line. Infant mortality i s twice the national average, school attendance is low
and literacy i s estimated at below 20 percent compared to over 60 percent nationally.

                                                2


  The contribution o f the arid lands to the national economy i s low. Situated far from
  the main commercial centers and the national capital, and with access hampered
  further bypoor infrastructure, the arid-land (AL) populations are isolated from the
  social and economic mainstream o f the country. Consequently their access to
 markets for their livestock, often their only economic asset, i s poor.

  1.7     The costs o f major droughts are high. It has been estimated that the 1999-
 2001 drought cost the Kenyan economy inexcess o f $2.5 billion, or more than 20
 percent o f GDP, mostly due to the loss o f hydro-power and consequent loss o f
 industrial production. Agricultural losses were estimated at about US$400 million, o f
 which US$150 millionwere inlivestock. While crop losses were concentrated in
 wetter regions, the livestock losses were concentrated inthe arid regions. Overall
 losses inthese areas are likely to have been inthe order o f US$200 million. This
 ignores the overall costs associated with drought relief efforts, estimated at about
 US$300 million, most o f which was covered by aid agencies.

 1.8     Kenyan response. Kenya elaborated a strategy for the development o f the
 Arid and Semi-kidLands (ASALs) in 1979, but only limitedprogress was made in
 implementing it inthe subsequent decade. The main objectives were to exploit the
 area's production potential while adequately conserving natural resources, and to help
 the populations to better integrate into the national economy, i.e. to develop their
 humanresources. These objectives havebeenreiteratedindevelopment plans etc.,
 including ina revised A S A L policy document in 1992. The latter also placed
 emphasis on drought contingency planning, inorder to strengthen the coping
 mechanisms o f the local communities.

 1.9     In1991/92 the country suffereda severe drought anditwas clear that the
 country's existing capacity for coping was inadequate. With UNassistance an
 emergency program o f food reliefwas undertaken, supported by an IDA financed
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (EDRP). This aimed to undertake measures to
regenerate productive capacity inagricultural and livestock production infour
particularly hard hit districts, and to assist inenhancing institutional capacity at the
district level to deal with drought.

 1.10    Duringthe late ~O'S,under UNandDutchfunding, an effort hadbeenmade in
Turkana district to develop a drought early warning system. This involved
monitoring o f a number o f indicators from around the district. The EDRP extended
this approachto cover the four districts, and also established a Project Management
Unit(PMU) inthe Office ofthe President, whichwas to serve as the coordinator for
projects dealing with drought, and as the focal point for the development o f policy for
arid and semi-arid lands.

1.11 Besides the development o fthe early warning system, the EDRPincluded a
number o f measures to provide emergency relief and assistance to agro-pastoral
households to recover their livelihoods, includingpackages o f agricultural inputs,
livestock vaccination programs, provisiono f water and drugs and medical supplies,
andemergency rehabilitation o froads andwater points. The impact o fthe project
was reducedbecause o f delays resulting from bureaucratic procedures o f both the

                                               3


 Bank and Borrower, and performance was also handicapped by limitations o f local
 level management capacity. The results o f the provision o f input packages and o f the
 emergency rehabilitation components were less than satisfactory, but the health and
 livestock efforts, based more on work with community groups, were more successful.

 1.12    The EDRP was prepared rapidly in 1992/93 inresponse to the emergency and
became effective inApril, 1993. It was initially envisaged as running for two years
but, inthe event, was extended for an additional two years. Basedonthis initial
 experience it was decided that a more extensive and extended effort to establish a
strengthened capacity to deal with drought, and to assist the pastoral population to
deal with their changing situation, would be necessary.



2.       Project Design

2.1      The Arid Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) was designed to
buildon the initial achievements o fthe Emergency Drought Recovery Project
(EDRP)andto extendthe effort to all 11districts designated as beingclimatically
"arid" (average rainfall under 300 millimeters per annum).Based on the experience
o f the EDRP, the ALRMP aimed to increase the emphasis on community-based
activities, rather than efforts determined ina top-down manner, and to increase the
effectiveness o f the governmental structures at the district level, especially intheir
ability to respond to drought and other emergencies. Also, drawing on the evolving
ideas on dry landmanagement, it sought to reduce the social and economic isolation
o f the pastoralists.

2.2      The appraisal report, inits introduction, succinctly and powerfully
summarized the challenge facing the project:

        "Existing constraints on socio-economic developments inthese districts are
        quite forbidding: the physical environment i s fragile and easily degraded;
        water resources are poor and variable; drought is a recurring feature
        decimating up to 50 percent or more o f the livestock ineach severe
        occurrence; the road network is inadequate and poorly maintained; and levels
        o f illiteracy are high, as are mortality rates. Experience has shown that
        traditional nomadic pastoral communities, like many other communities, do
        not always adequately respond to top-down development process, while a few
        formal and community-based institutions have limited capacities to combat
        the prevailing constraints.

        Neither effective conservation o f the natural resource base, nor the
        development potential o f these areas, can be realized unless these constraints
        are addressed. Further, the development process should accommodate the
        shifts inpriorities from development to survival intimes o f drought, and vice-
        versa when normalcy returns. The proposed project addresses these
        constraints by focusing on drought mitigation, further integration o f the AL
        population into the mainstream o f the country's economy, and the promotion

                                              4


         o f community-driven, small-scale initiatives to address their development
        priorities." (Appraisal Report paras. 2-3)

2.3      However, when the appraisal report formulated its statement o f objectives, it
chose to frame them much more broadly ina way that, as will be seen, caused
considerable problems later when it came to assessing performance inachieving these
objectives. The statement read:

        "to strengthen and support community driveninitiatives to (a) reduce the
        widespread poverty and enhance food security inthe arid districts o f Turkana,
        Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu, and the arid
        divisions o f Baringo district; and (b) conserve the natural resource base inthe
        arid lands through: (i)  improving crop and livestock resilience to drought; (ii)
        increasing economic linkages with the rest o f the economy; and (iii)
        improving basic health services, water supply and other social services."

2.4     To achieve these objectives the proposed activities o f the project were divided
into three operational components and an overall project support component:

        Drought management (planned expenditure o fUS$10.9 million and actual o f
        US$9.2 million) was to institutionalize drought management at the national
        and district levels so as to allow effective management o f all phases o f a
        drought. These included preparedness through drought monitoring; mitigation
        bydrought contingencyplanning and rapidreaction; andrecovery bymeans
        o f drought relief activities.

   0    Marketing and infrastructure (planned expenditure o fUS$3.4 million and
        actual o f US$1.8 million) addressed constraints to livestock market linkages
        between the arid lands and the rest o f the economy, including such actions as
        rehabilitation o f stock routes, and development o f new, and rehabilitation o f
        existing, market infrastructure.

   0    Community Development (planned expenditure o fUS$5.9 million and actual
        o f US$6.2 million) assisted line departments and other collaborating agencies
       to adapt their organization and delivery systems to the specific conditions o f
       the arid lands, so as to become more responsive to the communities' needs
       and demands, and also supported actions at the individual village level aimed
       at improving community infrastructure, increasing income earning capacity or
       mitigating the impact o f drought.

   0   An ImplementationSupport Component Cplanned expenditure o fUS$4.9
       million and actual o f US$7.1 million) provided for the establishment, staffing,
       and equipping o f a National Project Coordination Office (located inthe Office
       o f the President), and a National Steering Committee. Ineach district, a
       District Steering Group (DSG) serviced by a small District Support Units
       (DSU)o fproject staff, provided the core o fthe capacity to mobilize for
       drought-related measures. The project also included funding for a range o f
       training activities, studies, andprovision o f technical assistance.

                                                5


 2.5      The project was appraised inmid-1994, approved inDecember 1995, and
 became effective inJuly 1996. It was to be implemented over a periodo f five years.
 The initial three years o f implementation were marked first by the "El Niiio" floods o f
 1998 and then by an extended drought that beganjust a few months after the floods
 had subsided. These floods were unprecedented inrecent history inKenya and caused
 widespread damage. Many communities had suffered from damage to water sources
 and numerous cases occurred o f streams and rivers shifting their courses and either
 destroying fields and structures, or leaving small irrigation or other water sources
 highand dry. The drought only compoundedthe distress causedbythe floods.

 2.6     When the Bank and the borrower came to assess progress at the Midtenn
 Review (MTR) inNovember 1999 the operational emphasis was on coping with these
 emergencies, It also became apparent that it was difficult to link the actions under the
 project to the stated objectives. The MTRmission and the borrower agreed that this
 problem should be addressed by narrowing the objectives o f the project. The
 Implementation Completion Report (ICR), prepared in2003, summarized the action
 as follows:

         "The MTR inNovember, 1999 improvedthe focus o f the project objective
         which was formally amended to be "to buildthe capacity o f communities in
         the arid districts o f Kenya to better cope with drought". This objective was the
         focus o f implementation performance duringthe remainder o f the project
         period. The restructuring o f the project was done for several reasons,
         including an explicit intention o f the government to address the vulnerability
         o f the populations o f the region to improve their ability to manage risk. The
         region suffered frequent, severe droughts and the ElNino flood which caused
         the drought management aspect o f the project to be raised inimportance by
        the time o fthe MTR." (ICR p. 2)

2.7     Inthe opinion ofthe assessment, the reasonfor the change was rather more
prosaic. The borrower and the Implementation Unithad a clear idea intheir minds o f
what the project was about and pursued it. It was only at the MTR, when all parties
looked more closely at the objectives as stated by the Bank inthe Appraisal Report
etc., that it became apparent that there was a problem. This was addressed by the I C R
at some length ina discussion o f "quality at entry." It explained that:

        "The project's devolved and participative design resulted inthe components
        beingseen as a general outline rather than as a blueprint for implementation.
        Project design was highly innovative -the whole concept o f the project was
        seen at appraisal and duringimplementation as a process -not as a blue-print.
        Ideas were to be tried out through the District Steering Groups (DSGs), with
        local communities brought into decision making.As a result, over time there
        has been a considerable blurring o f the boundaries between the three main
        components, so that some kinds o f investment - e.g. water supply -
        appropriately occur ineach o f the three. Inaddition, project implementation
        support was inpractice dividedbetween the three investment components -
        even though it appears as a line item inthe appraisal cost summary table.     , ,
                                                                                       . ,.
        The project's flexible design has generally had a positive effect and has

                                                6


          encouraged initiation o fnew ways o f operating during implementation and
          managing cash flow. The only significant item which has suffered as a result
          o f this broad-brush approach i s monitoring and evaluation, where inadequate
          detail was provided as to what was required inthe baseline studies and the
          range and type o f information to be collected on a regular basis, which has
         hindered the measurement o f project impact." (ICR p. 3)

 2.8      This is a rather long-winded way o f saying that the situation was confused. It
 was clear that, giventhe activities being undertakenby the project, it would be very
 difficult to show that they were reducing poverty or conserving the natural resource
 base, which were the primary objectives inthe formal statement (para 2.3). It was,
 therefore, not surprising that the ICR concluded that the M&E effort hadbeen
 defective innot generating the right type o f information for the purpose.

 2.9     Beyond the lack o f a clear logical linkbetween the activities and the
 objectives there was an additional problem, noted by the caveat inthe third paragraph
 o f the Appraisal Report, "the development process should accommodate the shifts in
 priorities from development to survival intimes o f drought" (floods might also have
 been added). This has provedto be prescient. Activities hadhadto switch to survival
 mode because o f the ElNiiio floods and the drought ongoing at the time o f the MTR.
 Prolonged adverse conditions, forcing project staff to divert their activities to drought
mitigationwould be likely to lead to an increase rather than a decrease inpoverty in
the project area. Yet the project's performance inspeeding the response to drought
 and mitigatingits effects might be first rate. H o w i s performance to be assessed?
 Should drought mitigationtrump poverty reduction, although the latter is the principal
goal o f the country strategy? Or is improvedmitigation o f the effects o f drought a
prerequisite for an effective anti-poverty strategy inthe arid lands?

2.10     The MTR attempted to solve these problems by narrowing the objective
statement to a minimum, focusing on the drought management only. However, this is
also not really satisfactory since, although activities under all three o f the components
(such as improving the operation o f the livestock markets, development and
rehabilitation o f water points, and small-scale irrigation) could be linked in some way
to drought mitigation, the aim was really broader -to help the communities both to
develop a better basis for improvements intheir living conditions and, thereby, to
reduce poverty, and to help them better integrate themselves into the national society
and economy.

2.11 Thus, neither the appraisal nor the revised MTR statements provide a fully
satisfactory statement o f objectives against which to assess the performance o f the
project. However, the appraisal report itself did have a clear statement o f the
background and the purpose o f the project inits introduction, reproduced above. The
final sentence o f the third paragraph o f the appraisal report can be modified to create
a statement o f objectives:

      "Within the overall goals o freducing poverty and combating the degradation o f
      natural resources, the objectives o f the project are to: improve the management
      and mitigationo f droughts; promote the integration o f the population o f the arid

                                                7


       lands into the mainstream o f the country's economy; and address their
       developmental priorities through community-driven, small-scale initiatives."

 2.12      This is a clear, straightforward statement. It is broadly symmetrical with the
 structure o f the project and i s consistent with its content, andwas clearly inthe mind
 o f the appraisal mission when it preparedthe appraisal report. The mystery is why a
 more complex statement was used inthe Appraisal and President's reports. None o f
 those involvedwho have been interviewed can now remember, and the subject i s not
 covered inminutes o f formal meetings at that time. The nature o f the statement o f
 objectives actually used suggests that the mission responded to suggestions that the
 statement include an explicit reference to poverty (the overriding country objective as
 stated inthe CAS) and to natural resource management (which was includedinthe
 title o f the project). The result, however, was that the author o f the ICR faced a very
 difficult task inassessing the extent to which the project had achieved its objectives
 or its impact, even ifthe revised, stripped-down MTR statement was used.

 2.13      This assessment will, therefore, adopt an "inferred" statement o f objectives, as
 above, based on the opening statement o f the appraisal report inassessing the
performance o f the project. This appears to come closest to the intentions o f all
parties and i s clear and concise. However, the statement inpara. 2.11is a second best
solution, since the objectives are qualitative rather than quantitative and not easy to
monitor. With hindsight it should have been possible to have developed a statement
o f objectives incorporating more measurable goals.



3.        Analysis

RELEVANCE

3.1       Project relevance is rated as high. For the past two decades GOK has pursued
a policy inthe Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL) regions o f promoting resource
conservation, exploitation o fproductive potential (primarily through livestock),
development o f humanresources, and integration o f the A S A L into the national
economy, inorder to reduce the relative income divide between the A S A L and the
rest o f the country. At the time o f project approval, as at present, the primary
objective o f the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was on the reduction o f
poverty and promoting environmentally sustainable development inthe country, and
it is clear that the project was responsive to these nationalpriorities. The project
design drew particularly from the Kenya Poverty Assessment, that hadrecently been
completed, and also on the National Environment Action Plan and the 1990
agricultural sector report.

3.2      The participatory approach that the project supported inits community
development activities was also inline with the increasing emphasis on stakeholder
participation inthe implementation ofBankprojects. Today the Bank regards
empowerment o f the poor as central to the fight against poverty.

                                                    8


 EFFICACY

 3.3      At the national level the project built onthe earlier efforts, particularly the
 EDRPetc., and established the KenyaFoodSecurity Meeting(KFSM) as a forum
 bringingtogether national actors and others, such as the Food and Agriculture
 Organization, World FoodProgram, major aid groups, and other relevant NGOs to
 review procedures and intentions inrelation to drought mitigation and recovery
 efforts. This was supplementedby a more ad hoc group, the Kenya Food Security
 Steering Group (KFSSG) that met, as necessary, at a working level to try and ensure
 national-level coordination between these actors.

 3.4      At the district level, DSGs, chaired bythe District Commissioner, were
 established. These paralleled the District Development Committees (DDCs) but were
 more operationally oriented. They met more frequently, generally monthly rather than
 quarterly, and included, inaddition to district department heads, representatives o f
 relevant nongovernmental groups such as major aid agencies operating locally.
 Unlike the DDCs, however, they didnot include political figures, such as the
 district's MPs or councilors. The DSGs have become the principalvenue for
 coordinated local responses to drought or other emergencies as the various parties
have become used to collaborating and, ifnecessary, can be called together quickly to
organize a rapidresponse. They have also become a venue for discussion o f district-
level development proposals and related broader issues.

3.5      Droughtmanagement.Performance inthis element o fthe project was highly
satisfactovy. The project developed the drought early warning system and a drought
management system that has beenrecognized by all parties as successful. The system
i s based on local monitors (12 or more per district) who are literate members o f
pastoralist communities and are paid a small stipend. They report on the status of
indicators such as pasture conditions, water availability, animal health, trends in
livestock movement and farming activities, any conflicts over use of resources, signs
o f malnutrition, and any other relevant signs. This informationi s consolidated in
district-level "early warning bulletins" and forwarded to the national level for
consolidation and dissemination. The "early warning bulletins and alerts have
contributed towards reduction intime lapse between reported stress and response to
2-3 weeks."'

3.6      Strategic Drought Management and Contingency Plans were also drawn up by
the DSGs, for each o f the 11districts covered by the project. These have enhanced
the ability to respond to emergencies since all parties will have agreed on their role
and should have ensured that resources would be available when required.

3.7      The availability o f resources for emergencies was further tackled in2000
when the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended to create a Rapid
Response disbursement category that would create a contingency fund and advance
funds to the districts as needed. These funds (totaling US$l.1million) have beenused


1. ADCL Consultants (2002) "Beneficiary Assessment Study of the Arid Lands Resource Management
Project" page 15), a sharp reduction on the previous situation.

                                                 9


 for facilitating conflict resolution, creating shelter facilities for internally displaced
 persons, and supporting the transportation o f emergency water to communities,
 emergency repairs to boreholes and provision o f fast moving spares.

 3.8      Impact evaluations carried out by consultants for the KFSSG' show that the
 emergency interventions carried out during the project period inthe target districts
 were better targeted and more cost effective than inearlier droughts and resulted not
 only insaving lives but also saved livelihoods by reducing livestock mortality.

 3.9      The assessment o f the livestock interventions noted the impact o f the
 strengthened capacity for response createdby the existence o f the new national and
 district-level structures.

          "The response to this drought was different from previous ones inmore ways
          than one. For the first time inthe history o f droughts, the Kenya Government
         was at the centre stage o f the response processas opposed to the previous
         times when response to crisis was UN, donor or NGO driven. Interms o f
         coordination and interms o f contributing resources to ameliorate the crisis,
         the Kenya government demonstrated a more pro-active and responsive
         attitude than ever before.

         Inthe past, as was the caseinthe 1996/7 drought, most donors andNGOs
         adopted a parallel relief assistance provision system to that of the government.
         This ledto the development o fparallel institutional structures such as NGO
         and donor forums, inexclusion o f the government. The mistrust between the
         government on one side and other stakeholders (UNagencies, the World
         Bank/IMF, other donors and NGOs) on the other with regard to the approach
         to food insecurity and drought related crises has beenwaning as dialogue
         through the different forums such as the KFSMand the KFSSGhas been
         ri~ing."~

3.10     Drought-related interventions. As noted above, the DSGs provided a focal
point for coordination o f a range o f drought-related livestock interventions. A
consultant assessment o f the response to the 1999-2001 drought notes that about 60
interventions were proposed inthe 11districts by some 16 agencies, including
bilaterals and a range o f NGOs. Some 40 projects were actually implemented at a cost
o f over US$6 million. The largest expenditure, nearly 50 percent o f the total, was for
water development - mainly borehole drilling. The largest number o f interventions
was for "destocking," where "surplus" animals were bought by the financing agencies
andslaughteredlocally. The fresh meat from these slaughtered animals was used for
local consumption, primarily through schools or emergency food aid activities. Most
of the meat was driedto be consumed locally later. Fundswere also usedto subsidize


2. Acacia Consultants, (2001) "Impact Assessment Report o f the Emergency Interventions to Support
Livestock during the 1999-2001Drought inKenya"; and StephanieMaxwell and Abdishakur Othowai
(2002) "A Review of the Community Basedtargeting and distribution SystemusedinKenya in2000-
2002".
3. Acacia Consultantsp.13.

                                             10


 transport for surplus animals to Nairobi, and for emergency provision o f drugs and
 supplementary feeding o f small stock (sheep and goats).

 3.11    Most o f these interventions were supported by grant funding bybilateral
 donors or NGOs. The modus operandi varied depending on circumstances. For
 example, under a small program operated byDFID owners o f small livestock were
 paid for surplus animals and supplementary feed to allow them to maintain some of
 their flocks through the drought so as to allow them to recover more quickly when the
 drought ended. It is estimated that the benefit-cost ratio for the livestock activities
 ranged from about 2:1to 8: 1, i.e. the value o f animals saved was from two to eight
 times the cost o f the action. Thus, the $3 million spent on the livestock drought relief
 efforts (excluding water supplies) i s estimated to have generated net benefits o f about
 $10 million. Inaddition, there were unquantifiable benefits inthe form o f reduced
 mortality and improved animal condition from the emergency water program.

 3.12    Inthe same way, the DSGs formed the focal point o fa major foodreliefeffort
 inresponse to the effects o fthe drought.    The efforts o f the DSGs resulted in
 effective donor-Government coordination, reduced response times, and these enabled
 $300 million o f aid to be made available to the areas affected. As a part o f the effort
 a community basedtargeting system was established that, despite some teething
problems, did ensure that adequate food was made available to the most vulnerable
groups4.

3.13     Insummary, the project brought about a significant improvement inthe
capacity at the central and local level to respondto drought (and potentially other
emergencies) with targeted interventions that brought together the resources o f both
government and aiacharitable institutions.

3.14     Livestock Marketing and Infrastructure. The outcome o f the project's
efforts inmarketing and infrastructure are rated as satisfactovy. It was the main
operational element o f the project directed at improvingthe economic links between
the arid lands andthe rest o fthe economy. Specifically, the aim o f the project was to
improve the operation o f livestock markets to allow pastoralists to obtain higher
prices for animals sold and also to more easily dispose o f animals when drought
threatens, so as to allow the animals to be sold ingood condition and not to have to
wait for a distress sale when then drought turns out to be a reality and little feed is
available.

3.15     The project improved stock routes through the rehabilitation or improvement
o f water points, usually operating through a community water users' association, who
managed the water point and charged livestock owners (members and non-members)
for the use by their animals. Holding grounds were developed inthe vicinity o f
primary and secondary market centers, and, working with local councils and traders'
associations, measures such as improvements to market facilities, such as improved
pens, crushes and loading ramps, and installation o f latrines, have been supported.



4. StephanieMaxwell andAbdishakur Othawai, pp. 5 -7

                                              11


  3.16    While these measures have been generally welcomed bypastoralists, it is
  difficult to assess their economic benefit to them. Loading ramps greatly reduce the
 time required to load animals onto trucks and, ifproperly managed, help to improve
 the flow o f vehicles inand out o f the market area and reduce waiting times. Garissa
 market, for example, now operates weekly and moves some 3,000 to 5,000 animals
 per week, a significant number.Available data suggest that there has been an increase
 inthe offtake rate fromthe herds inthe region. However, ina country such as Kenya,
 where hauls are relatively long and, especially inthe sparsely populated arid regions,
 where roads are inpoor condition, the cost savings are marginal inrelation to the
 whole cost o f truck transport to the major urbanmarkets or slaughterhouses.

 3.16     Watevpoints. The approach adoptedbythe project to improvement o f water
 points has had a notable impact on management o f livestock. Fundinghas been
 accompanied by the creation o f an officially recognized management committee for
 each water point, and this has meant that there is now a formal management system
 for these local water sources. Pastoralists who are en route with their herd are now
 required to pay an agreed fee to water their animals and, by definition, for them to
 graze inthe vicinity, (with different fees for each type o f animal). The person in
 charge also has the responsibility to regulate the access to the watering facility and to
 negotiate on how long passing herds can stay so as to effectively manage the local
 water and grazing resource. Thus, a dry season watering point can be closed once a
 rainy season begins.

 3.17    The result has been the evolution o f an officially recognized system for
 management o f local water points and grazing. Herders liaise with local water and
 land management committees before moving their stock to water points or related
grazing areas' Related to this is the effort which has designated about 24 areas as
grazing reserves equipped with temporary water points as a short-term measure that
helps maintain livestock and reduces degradation of range near permanent water
points. This development has significantly reduced the potential for disputes and
local tensions.

3.18     Increasing offtake While the direct livestock savings have been estimated at
about $10 million, this does not include potential benefits resulting from more timely
action, i.e. inhelping the livestock owners to reduce herds expeditiously, which then
enables them to concentrate the remaining resources on the smaller number o f
animals, thus increasing their likelihoodo f survival. The improved management o f
water points and grazing areas also will have had a similar effect. Project data
indicated an increase inofftake inthe project areas o f about 7 percent. This may have
resulted from a range o f factors including the improved operation o f markets and
management o f water and grazing fostered by the project. Inaddition, it also reflects
an increasing commercial orientation o f livestock owners, also fostered by actions
such as regularization o fwater and grazing fees, and increased sedentarization o f the
pastoral population. Based on the reported offtake rate the value o f the increase in
livestock marketedwould be about US$20 millionper year.


5. ADCL Consultants, page 16.

                                              12


 3.19    Raisingpastoral issues in nationalpolicy debates. Traditionally pastoralists
 have been somewhat marginalized from the policy-making processes o f government.
 The project has had a positive impact on their relative position by acting as a voice
 for their concerns inthe highest circles. This i s important inthat major problems
 facing pastoral communities as they seek to move away from a subsistence lifestyle,
 such as poor transport links and marketingpolicies that restrict livestock movements,
 were beyond the scope o f the ALRMP.

 3.20    These issues (road conditions and transport costs) arejust two o f a number o f
 issues that were beyond the scope o f the project, but which have a significant impact
 on the financial returns to pastoralists. Several steps would significantly benefit them,
 such as the modificationo f some regulations such as the prohibition o f night transport
 and the widespread quarantine restrictions. Also, the privatization o f the main
 slaughterhouse near Nairobi would expand the market for mature animals, as would
 increased efforts to develop export markets.

 3.2 1 Communitydevelopment.The performance o f the community development
 activities supported by the project was satisfactory;. More than 1,200 small village
 levelprojects were undertaken supporting a range o f activities; restocking o f small
 ruminant herds (usually about 20 animals per households to those who lost their
 flocks due toforce majeure) accounted for about 32 percent o f expenditure;
 educational facilities (classrooms) (28 percent); income-generating activities such as
women's groups runningsmall stores or craft production (15 percent); agriculture,
primarily purchase o f irrigation pumps (13 percent), water facilities (5 percent), and a
number o f other activities promotinghuman or animal health or improved
te c h ology.

3.22     It is estimatedthat the income earning activities resulted inincreased incomes
o f participants o f about $1 per day for the wornens' groups, to 1to 4 dollars per day
for the use o f irrigation pumps. On an annual basis, the activities generated incomes
about equal to the sums invested, or $2 million.

A principal feature o fthe community development component o fthe project has been
the use o fparticipatory approach to the development o f Community Action Plans
(CAPS)and activity identification and design, carried out primarily by trained Mobile
Extension Teams (METs)., At the community level, this has included identifying
beneficiary groups for each activity, and forming sub-committees to take
responsibility for different aspects o f project implementation. The community,
through a management group is also expected to be responsible, using contractors if
necessary, for any construction or procurement o f equipment and for subsequent
maintenance and operation o f the facilities developed. Inaddition, to ensure
community buy-into the undertakings, the community i s required to come up with
about 30 percent o f the estimated cost o f the project before the project contributed its
funds andwork could begin.

3.23    However, as the Beneficiary Assessment points out, the participatory
approach is time consuming:

                                             13


        "The participatory approach.. ..involves initial PRA carried out ineach
        community, prioritization o fproblems, listingpriorities for micro-projects,
        screening and approval by DSG, training o f community leaders, and assuring
        the community contribution before any work is done. The participatory
        approach to community development i s a slow andpainstaking process. The
        extended participatory dialogue with the community, starting at the planning
        stage, leading to empowerment, and finally to ownership, takes time. The
        mobilization o f the 30% contribution infunds from the communities too, takes
        time. Most Community Development Officers o f ALRMP have been working
        painstakingly towards affecting the participatory process."6

 3.24   An important indirect benefit, linkedto the PRA approach, which is widely
 remarked but not quantified, has beenthe reduction o f conflict between groups and
 communities. With the collapse o f law and order across Kenya's borders inthe
 adjacent areas o f Somalia and southern Sudan, it was perhaps inevitable that illegal
 arms should appear inthe arid land regions accompanied by banditry, livestock
rustling, and other criminal activity that has had adverse impact on the local
population. Inaddition, conflicts over water and grazing resources have been
exacerbated bypopulation growth and drought. The Beneficiary Assessment notes
that

        "as a result o f [early] experiences ALRMP, upon realizing that development
        could not proceed untilsome o f the local emergency problems were resolved,
        undertook the lead inconflict resolution and assisting victims with emergency
        measures. Although not part o f the original work plan, these measures became
        an important entry point for ALRMP, meetingwith unprecedented success.
        The credible manner with which ALRMP handled these emergency situations
        and the transparent response not only resolved some o f the immediate
       problems, but determined the future relationship between ALRMP and the
       communities. InTurkana, for example, following the escalation o f raids by the
       Pokot, ALRMP took the lead insetting up a coordinating secretariat which
       included not only GOK officials but also the lead NGOs operating inthe
       district. ALRMP was instrumental infacilitating various peace meetings that
       were convened inthe area. InWajir, ALRMP evacuated women and children
       from the Gurar community untilthe emergency was resolved."'

3.25   Onthe basis o fthe above, Efficacy is rated as substantial.

EFFICIENCY

3.26   The project was primarily aimed at institutional strengthening and developing
processes to enable those livinginan environmental characterized by a highdegree o f
risk anduncertainty to better cope withthese challenges, bothindividually andas
groups. As such, the efficiency o f project interventions cannot be readily assessed.


6. ADCL Vol. V p.11.
7.ADCLp.11.

                                               14


  3.27    The costs o f establishing the structures supporting the drought early warning
  systems and the capacity to respond as necessary to emergencies, have been
  significant. However, as noted earlier, inthe view o f major international partners in
  drought relief, the capacity o f the Kenyan government to effectively lead the drought
  relief efforts was substantially increased by this project. It was also noted that the role
  o f government inleading the effort i s indispensable to success. On the basis o f the
  findings o f the evaluative studies, the project's activities enabled other actions (NGOs
  andbilateral donors) to operate muchmore effectively than before.

  3.28     Insummary, theproject established inthe eleven districts most adversely
 affected by periodic drought an early warning and response system recognizedby all
 stakeholders as successful, helped organize response programs through aid agencies
 andNGOs that saved livestock to the value o f at least $10 million. It introduced a
 range o f measures that assisted the pastoralists to better manage their livestock and
 range and water resources, and increase herd offtake to the value o f about US$20
 millionper year. It also supported community based interventions that improved
 community infrastructures, helped the poorest recover from the effects o f the drought
 and generated incomes o f about $2 millionper year. Therefore, on balance, the audit
 rates efficiency as substantial.

 INSTITUTIONAL     DEVELOPMENT       IMPACT

 3.29    At the district levelthe role o fthe DSGsinprovidinga focal point in
 organizing the response to drought and other emergencies has been noted. But beyond
the capacity development o fthe DSG, the changes have empowered the staff o fthe
 line departments. For professional staff inthese departments inmid-career, a posting
to one o f the arid districts, far from the major population centers, and climatically
unattractive, was not seen as a pathway to higher things. But the DSG structure, allied
to the availability o f some funds through ALRMP to support local initiatives, has
created a technical role for the professional staff o f the line agencies that was missing
before. It has provided an organizing framework that has fostered interdepartmental
collaboration and it has also shiftedthe focus from the more politically oriented DDC
to the technically oriented DSGwhere the members feel that they have greater
opportunity to solve problems inan expeditious and professionally satisfying way.

3.30     At the community level, the project's approach has hada similarly catalytic
impact. The PRA approach and that o f placing the community incharge o f
implementing the sub-projects has required them to focus indetail on the operational
implications o f the choices to be made, and the requirement for the community to
finance 30 percent o f the cost draws attention to the cost o f the intervention and to the
costs and benefits o f alternatives. Byhaving to hire contractors, purchase the required
materials, and supervise implementation the community has to develop the necessary
skills to manage the implementation o f small development activities. Inmeeting with
such groups, it i s clear that this experience has increased their confidence and has
helped them develop normal, "commercial" relations o f equality with a wider range
o f actors inthe economy and society. The communities have proved, at least to
themselves, that they can do things and this has reduced their shyness inapproaching
figures inauthority. At the same time, the communities recognize that they have

                                              15


 responsibilities. They can no longer have a hands-off attitude toward infrastructure
  etc. built by others, as has so often characterized locally focused development efforts
 inthe past.

 3.3 1 It was reported to the mission that District Commissioners transferred from
 Arid Lands districts to non-project districts, have wished that they had a coordinating
 group like the DSG, especially when faced with emergencies, such as floods. Inthe
 longer term the Project Co-ordination Office might have its remit broadened to
 become an office o f emergencies and special programs, thus buildingo n the
 experience and expertise gained by the project, Overall, the institutional development
 impact o f the project has been high.


 SUSTAINABILITY

 3.32     The assessors consider that, inthis case, sustainability is non-evaluable. The
 activities initiated under the project are being carried forward, with IDA assistance,
 under the phase I1project, so it is, ineffect, premature to make ajudgment on the
 operation as a whole.

 3.33    However, there are elements o f the project where the actions and approaches
 introduced under ALRMP appear likely to be long lasting. These are, inparticular,
 where the actions o fthe project had a significant impact on the thinkingand approach
 o f the affected groups. Major external actors, such as international organizations,
bilateral donors, andNGOs, operating at the district level inthe arid areas o f Kenya,
 clearly believe that there has beena significant change for the better under the
ALRMP. A continuation o fthis state o f affairs will be dependent on a continuation o f
an adequate level o f support from central government, including continued
recognition that the arid lands and their resident population is a priority for
government.

3.34     The benefits noted from the empowerment o f the professional staffs at the
district level and o f community groups will not automatically continue. Inboth cases
the groups have seenhow the changed approach to district-level organization and
methods o f operation have hadpositive benefits for them and they will undoubtedly
try to continue inthe same vein. However, ifthere i s no support from the broader
governmental system inproviding some resources, either through government's own
resources, or through mobilization o f external assistance, the improvements
introducedby the project will gradually atrophy.

3.35     At the community levelthere is also reason for concern about the
sustainability o f some o f the micro-projects such as irrigation pumps. These are small
operations and, inmany cases, members have limited experience inmaintaining such
equipment. Thus, it is not a foregone conclusion that the groups will be able to
adequately maintain the equipment so that it lasts for a reasonable period and to
maintain the discipline necessary to ensure that funds are set aside to finance a
replacement when it becomes necessary.

                                               16


 3.36    The continued support under the phase I1project should help more firmly
 anchor these changes into the fabric o f government operation and community life, but
 will not be automatic.


 OUTCOME

 3.37    Droughtmanagementand mitigation.The project successfully scaled up
 the pilot early warning system to cover all 11districts. The DSGs were developed as
 the locus for district-level emergency response and demonstrated the ability to
 coordinate a range o f activities ina way that clearly marked an improvement over
 earlier efforts. Infact, there are reports that District Commissioners from the arid land
 districts, transferred to non-arid land districts have noted the absence o f an effective
 mechanism such as the DSGfor coordinating and initiatinglocal emergency or
 development actions and have attempted to set up something similar.

 3.38    Integratingthe populationof the aridlandsintothe nationalmainstream.
 While the specific livestock marketing and infrastructure efforts only appear to have
had a limited impact on improving the efficiency o f the marketing system, there has
been an increase inthe sales o f animals (offtake). While this cannot be solely
 attributed to the project, elements o f the project have contributed to achieving this
overall objective. Methods taken to reduce conflict and the PRA approach to
community activities have resulted inthe development o fmore positive relationships
between local communities and groups and the government authorities. This has
meant that the local groups see the authorities more as being there to help them rather
thanjust another problem to be overcome. It i s clear that the local groups want to be
responsible for themselves, as far as i s possible, something indicated by their
willingness to raise 30 percent o f the cost o f the activities supported, even when their
resources are obviously meager. At the same time, puttingthem incharge o f the
implementation o f the micro-proj ects has increasedtheir confidence, both intheir
ability to manage projects and also intheir relationships with other economic actors,
e.g., contractors, suppliers, and dealers. This initselfis a major step inintegrating
them into the mainstream.

3.39     Promotecommunity-driven,small-scaleinitiatives.The project has
developed a successful approach, usingPRA methods, to working with marginalized
local communities to identify their priorities and to draw up community action plans
to begin to achieve them. In addition to the micro-projects implemented at the
community level, the project has supported these efforts by organizing training for
village level workers, such as health workers, birth attendants and animal health
workers. However, as noted above, there remains some risk that the community will
not be able to adequately maintain and continue to operate the facilities developed
with the assistance o fthe project.

3.40     Based on these achievements, the project has achieved most o f its major
relevant objectives efficiently, with only minor shortcomings and merits a
satisfactov rating.

                                               17


 BANKPERFORMANCE

 3.41     Onbalance, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The major shortcoming
 inthe Bankperformance was inthe appraisalprocess. The overall designo fthe
 project, based on a process approach to the issue o f fostering development inthe arid
 landregionand increasingthe effectiveness o fbothpublic andprivate responses to
 drought, was sound. This has been demonstratedby the project's results. Onthe other
 hand, the Bank cloaked the project with a statement that obscured the objectives o f
 the operation and which was not consistent with the content and modus operandi o f
 the project. The result was that, at theMTR and at completion there were
 considerable difficulties inshowing that the outcome had achieved the objectives as
 formally stated. Inboth cases, the initial response was to take the positionthat the
 monitoring and evaluation was inappropriate, a positionnot supported by the
 assessment.

 3.42    Duringimplementation, the Bankperformance was fully satisfactory. There
 was admirable continuity inBank staffing with the same project officer inpost from
 identification to completion, much o f the time being resident inNairobi. This level o f
 continuity is not always desirable, as a second opinion and approach,canbe helpful,
 but inthis case the result was beneficial. Bank staffbuilt up a close andcollegial
 working relationship that kept the focus on approach and the need to develop and
 generally instill infield level staff the essentials o f the PRA method. Despite the
 problems over the objectives, the focus was kept on the institutional aspect o f the
 project and the temptation to push for targets, so as to be able to demonstrate progress
 intackling poverty, was avoided.


BORROWERPERFORMANCE

3.43     Borrower performance was fully satisfactory. The core o f the project's central
staff inthe Office o f the President hadbeen assembled under the EDRP.Under the
ALRMP this staffwas expanded, drawing staff from arange o f other parts o fthe
bureaucracy, and developed into a coherent team that has providedclear leadership
for the project. This central staff provided effective guidance and training for the
district-level operations.

3.44    At district level, staff clearly did a goodjob inpullingtogether, boththe
ALRMP district teams and also the METs, providing training and guidance to the
latter in the participatory approach to low-income communities. The district ALRMP
leadership also fostered satisfactory relationships with the DCs and line departments
inorder to achieve the effective operation o fthe DSGs, particularly inthe successful
development o f the drought early warning systems. They also fostered the change in
attitudes toward the beneficiary groups necessary for the effective implementation
and support o f the participatory methods.

3.45    Much o f the implementation o f the project took place at a time o f considerable
tension between GOK andthe donor community. However, GOK met its financial
commitments to the project duringthe project period. There were some initial

                                             18


 problems with the release o f funds to the district level that caused delays in
 implementation. However, the Ministry o f Finance respondedby overhauling the
 system andproject implementation was speeded up. The ministryalso collaborated
 with the Bank to allow the creation o f Contingency Funds, held at the district level,
 which permitted more rapid response to drought-related emergency situations.


 4.      EvaluationFindings

 STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES.

 4.1     This assessment has noted several times that, during the implementation of
 this project, considerable problems were caused because the Bank, during its internal
 review o f the appraisal report, didnot give adequate consideration to the report's
 statement o f objectives. It should have been clear that, although the project was
 directed at poor households, and ina region where the fragile resource base i s a major
 concern, it was likely not to be possible to clearly measure the impact o f the activities
 being undertaken by the project on reducing poverty, or on conserving the natural
 resource base since the components o f the project were designed to create an effective
 drought early warning and response system; improve the links between the pastoralist
 communities inthe arid lands and the rest o f the Kenyan economy and society; and to
undertake small, community-based micro-projects, responding to the stated priorities
o f the poor, largelypastoral communities.

4.2      The assessment has noted that the project had a significant, but indirect effect
instrengtheningthe linkagesbetweenthe localcommunities andthe rest o fKenyan
society and economy. First, by establishing an approach that assisted them to
translate their concerns and priorities into actionable plans inwhich they could be
assisted by government. Second, by developing an approach through which they
could develop skills appropriate to more commercial/professional relationships with
the rest o f society, and which gave them the confidence to buildon their initial
experience. Inso doing, the actions o f the project also reduced the need for the local
groups to rely on a political patronage type for support. It is perhaps ironic that the
principal problem faced ininitially assessing the performance o f the project was that
Bank staff, presumably unwittingly, broadened what might have been a narrow,
focused statement o f objectives into a broader one emphasizing the politically more
salient objectives o f poverty reduction and resource conservation. That is, inthis
instance Bank staff did not follow the philosophical direction o f the approach and
interventions fostered by the project.

MONITORINGEVALUATION
                AND

4.3     The appraisal report for ALRMP listed 19 key indicators. Fourteen o f these
related to project implementation, rather than impact, while five assess impact, such
as percentage decline incommon diseases or percent decrease incattle and goat
pneumonia (see Annex A). However, none were directed at the qualitative aspects o f
the project, such as the responsiveness o f district-level agencies. The project andthe
Kenya Food Security Steering Group have commissioned consultants to carry out

                                              19


 studies on the effectiveness o f project operations. These have examined the
 effectiveness o f livestock interventions and food distribution duringthe 1999-2001
 drought and a beneficiary assessment o f those assisted by the project. These studies
 included both feedback from project beneficiaries and the views o f persons in
 government or incollaborating agencies on the effectiveness and relevance o f the
 project's activities. Given the nature o f the project activities it is the assessors' view
 that this approach to assessment i s the most appropriate means o f addressing the
 evaluation o f project effectiveness.

 4.4     The M & Ework might have been extendedto have better assessedthe
 poverty focused activities. First, a more detailed assessment might have been done o f
 a sample o f community level activities to determine whether they are commercially
 viable, taking into account the cost incurredby the beneficiaries and the 70% o f cost
 granted by the project. Second an assessment could have attempted to assess whether
 the most disadvantagedwere benefiting from the activities, or ifthe benefits were
 being captured by the better o f fmembers o f the group.

LEVEL TECHNOLOGY
         OF

4.5      The participatory approach usedby the project has ensured that there is a clear
acceptance o f ownership by the implementing community. However, this can have a
downside that should be kept under review. Since a mini-project has to be
implemented by the community, or by contractors under their control, the technology
adopted must be one with which they are familiar. Inmost instances, this is likely to
mean a fairly basic level. This can have downsides. At one o f the sites visited by the
assessment mission, the local community had selected a site at which to dam a small
stream to provide water for the community and for their animals. The community had
done a goodjob o f selecting the site as the pond was said to contain water at all times,
and this was the case at the time o f the mission's visit toward the end o f the dry
season. The dam had a small spillway, but no other drain. The community had
attempted to prevent animals from the immediate catchment area, but obviously had
not been entirely successful as waste was visible close to the water. Without any
ability to flushout the water body, there is a risk o f the water becoming
contaminated. Unfortunately, because o f the design, it would now be difficult to
install a drain to allow the pondto be flushed out, ifnecessary.

4.6     For some micro-projects, e.g., construction of schoolrooms and clinics, the
project applies the basic governmental standards, e.g., for the minimum size o f room.
The project should review the full range o f micro-projects it is supporting to consider
whether minimumstandards should be developed for others as well, to ensure that the
effectiveness o f individual efforts are not undercut because easily avoidable problems
are overlooked.

4.7     Similarly, the project has assisted a number o f farmer groups to purchase
pumps to extract water from the Tana River for small-scale irrigation. The farmers
have constructedtheir own channels that are often not very effective. The project
should encourage the farmers to hire a surveyor to redesign the layouts and improve
water use.

                                              20


 DistributionOf Support

 4.8      Projects such as ALRMP will always be faced by many more deserving
 groups looking for assistance than they can accommodate, given the resources at
 hand. Given the pressures that there will be to continue to assist those groups that
 already have a relationship with the project, it is desirable that there be some
 agreement at the outset on guidance that couldbe used, ifnecessary, to limit the level
 o f support to any one group, ifothers that have received less support are capable o f
 effectively using more. Projects such as ALRMP, which assist local communities and
 groups, should have some agreed guidelines regarding how much assistance it i s
 reasonable to provide to an individual or group.



 5.       Lessons

 5.1      Lesson 1.The success o f the project indicates that, inorder to effectively
 respond to natural disasters such as drought, there are two principalrequirements: (a)
 there needs to be a structure inplace at the local level through which the relevant
 government departments andnon-governmental actors can meet speedily to address
 the situation and coordinate their actions; (b) that body needs to have some resources,
 not necessarily substantial, to fund initial measures to address the identified problems,
 so that response is not delayed by the need to obtain resources through normal
 bureaucratic channels.

 5.2      The creation o f the District Steering Groups (DSG) was the key to the success
 o f the project. Chairedby the District Commissioner, these included district
 department heads and representatives o f relevant non-governmental groups, such as
major aid agencies operating locally. The DSGs meet regularly, usually monthly, so
that lines o f communication are well established and the different parties are aware o f
each other's activities. They can also be called together quickly ifan emergency
develops, and the collegiality developed inthe groups has been an important factor in
quickly resolving issues as they arise and inensuring that efforts are well targeted.

5.3      Lesson 2. The statement o fproject objectives is important. Care should be
taken by both the Bank and the Borrower to ensure that the objective statement is
clear and does not become blurred by vaguely stated objectives. This is especially
important when, for example, though the project may be broadly targeted to assist the
poor, the nature o f its interventions is such that it will be difficult to demonstrate
whether it has met a specific poverty objective.

5.4      Inthe ALRMP, field operations were targeted toward assistingthe most
disadvantaged groups (pastoralists) in a region (the arid lands) where the incidence o f
poverty was and is particularly high.However, the objective o f the project was to
increase the resilience o f these groups inthe face o f drought and other emergencies,
through increasing the capacity o f government (nationally and locally) to respond to
emergencies, improving the linkages between these groups and the rest o f the
economy and society, and supporting community-driven, small-scale initiatives

                                            21


designed to meet their priority needs o f the communities and to strengthen their
ability to work as a group to tackle problems. Inthis case, the project period was one
o f adverse conditions, so the outcome could have beensatisfactory even if the
incidence o fpoverty had not been reduced. The issue i s would the situation o f the
beneficiaries have been worse without the project? The beneficiary assessments
show that this was the case.

5.5     Lesson 3. Inoperations like the ALRMP it is important to design, at the
outset, performance indicators to track qualitative as well as quantitative progress on
achievement o f objectives, or to agree at the outset on specific steps to monitor
performance inmeeting qualitative objectives.

5.6     The appraisal report for ALRMP listed 19 key indicators. Fourteen o f these
related to project implementation, rather than impact, while five did assess impact,
such as percentage decline incommon diseases or percent decrease incattle and goat
pneumonia. However, none were directed at the qualitative aspects o f the project,
such as the responsiveness o f district-level agencies. There may be some qualitative
aspects o f a project such as ALRMP that cannot be effectively tracked by means o f a
simple indicator, such as numbers completed. However, the need could be met by
some otfier means, such as by agreeing to undertake beneficiary assessments, on an
agreed schedule that would include feedback from beneficiaries or other stakeholders.


                                       23                                  Annex A


Annex A. Performance Indicators


Outcome I Impact Indicators:
           IndicatorlMatrix               Achievement
 1,Drought monitoring and                 During the severe 1999-2001 drought, the project
 management system resulting in           shortened the response time, promoted effective
 better targeted and earlier              government-donor coordination and created a
 interventions in arid districts,         community-based targeting system, allowing
which will result in reduction in         vulnerable groups improved access to food supplies.
 need for food aid and economic           (WFP Assessment)
 losses due to drought.
2. Community-driven marketing             Offtake estimated to have increased to 7% per year.
 initiatives result in better             Community implementation of Over 1200 micro-
 integration in national economy,         projects has also required them to interact much
increasing animal offtake in              more directly in commercial transactions and with the
particular and in incomes for arid        wider economy.
lands populations in general.

3. Community microprojects                Over 1200 micro-projects have been implemented
result in capacity building of arid       benefiting some 180,000 people and addressing
lands communities and                     needs identified by the communities. Directly
sustainable investments which             productive projects produce over $2 million in income
will increase incomes and                 per year.
decrease incidences of common
diseases and child mortality.

4. Natural Resource base of the           In the absence of a general land use planning and
arid lands conserved through the          pro-pastoralists land tenure policy encompassing
maintenance and strengthening             creation of permanent grazing reserves for use
of traditional pastoral systems of        during drought, the option adopted by the project has
land and water use.                       proved effective.


Source: Assessment.

                                         24                         Annex A



 Output Indicators:
              Indicator                      Target            Actual at Completion
 Number of monthly drought                     822                      822
 reports
 Emergency Drought                          Available           $1.Imillion'provided
 Contingency funds available
 District drought contingency                  10                        11
 plans
 Livestock actions
 drought grazing reserves                      10                        24
 holding grounds/stock routes
 -- number identified and planned              48                        62
    number implemented                         48                        53
 Percentage decrease in cattle                 5%                      15%
 and goat pneumonia
 Increase in off-take of animals              0.5%                      7%
 Community development
 actions
community health workers                      700                      750
trained and operational
staff participating in initial                2300                    2900
training
Community Microprojects                  No specific target            1200
Increase in percentage of                     5%                       11%
vaccination coverage
New water supply units                        I00                      779
operational
traditional birth attendants                  1800                    1269
trained and operational
Number of demonstration plots                9,000                    9,000
Percentage increase in yields of             3% pa                     5%
major crops
Percentage decline in common                 3% pa                     4%
diseases
Percentage decline in child                  5% pa                5% to 7% pa
mortality rate


Source: ImplementationCompletion Report.

                                                   25                                             Annex B


Annex B. Basic Data Sheet

ARID LANDSRESOURCEMANAGEMENTPROJECT (CREDIT
NO.2797-KE)


                                                 Appraisal           Actual or             Actual as % of
                                                 estimate        current estimate        appraisal estimate
 IDA Credit                                        22.0                  19.4                    88.0
Government                                         3.1                   4.9                    158.0
Cofinancing
Total project cost                                 25.1                  24.3                   246.0




                                                         Original                          Actual
_I
Appraisal         - " - - _ - - ~ ~ - 1 _ _ _ 1 1                                      June 13, 1994
Board approval                                                                        December 14, 1995
Effectiveness                                        July 12, 1996                      July 12, 1996
Mid Term Review                                   September 15, 1999                   October 4, 1999
Closing date                                      September 30, 2001                   June 30,2003




                                                         ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                        N" Staff weeks                              us$uss~ooo)
Identification/Preparation                    40.6                                     124.7
AppraisaIINegotiation                         109.8                                    270.8
Supervision                                   83.6                                     509.3
ICR                                           15.0                                     50.0




MissionData
                                                                                              Performance rating
                          (month/year)
                              Date      persons
                                        No.of        Specializations represented        Implementation Development
                                                                                             status       objectives
 Identification/           June 1994
 Preparation


 Appraisal/               July27, 1994     8      Task Manager, Operations Officer,
 Negotiation                                         Anthroopologist, Financial
                                                 Management Specialist, Procurement
                                                 Specialist, Lawyer, Credit Specialist,
                                                   Drought Management Specialist
  Supervision
 Supervision 1           April 19, 1997    4      Task Manager, Livestock Adviser,             S              S
                                                 Anthropologist, Range Management
                                                               Specialist

                                                26                                         Annex B


                                                                                       Performance rating
                        (month/year)
                            Date       persons
                                        No.of     Specializations represented     Implementation Development
                                                                                      status      objectives
 Supervision 2         August 7, 1998     4     Team Leader, Livestock Adviser,         S              S
                                               Range Management Specialist, Rural
                                                    Development Specialist
 Supervision 3        October 23, 1999    7        Task Team Leader, Social             S              S
                                                    Development Specialist,
                                                Procurement Specialist, Financial
                                                 Management Specialist, NRM
                                                  Specialist, M&E Specialist,
                                                        Livestock Adviser
 Supervision 4          May 8,2000         1            Task Team Leader                S              S
 Supervision 5       December 18,2000      1            Task Team Leader                S              S
 Supervision 6        February 12,2001    3        Livestock Adviser, Social            S              S
                                                 Development Specialist, M&E
                                                            Specialist
 Supervision 7         September 20,      4      Task Team Leader, Operations           S              S
                             2001                 Officer, Social Development
                                                Specialist, Financial Management
                                                            Specialist
ICR
                      January 15,2003     4       Agricultural Economist (2),           S              S
                                                 Livestock Specialist, Financial
                                                              Analyst
                     September 20,        2     Task Team Leader, Agricultural          S              S
                     2002                                   Economist
Performance Rating: S:Satisfactory


Other Project Data
               -
Borrower/Executing Agency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS                         - -.
                                                                                        ~~~
Operation                                         Credit no.          Amount          Board date
                                                                   IUS%million)
Arid Lands Resource Management Project - Phase     3795-KE              60.0         June 19,2003
Two


