Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2797 KE
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Arid Lands Resource Management Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated February 13, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2797 KE
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
KENYA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 4,
1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to improve the living
standards of pastoralists and other people living in the
Project Area (hereinafter called the Program); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Page  2
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
      (a)   "Microproject" means a small-scale activity to be
carried out by beneficiary communities and financed under the
Credit;
      (b)   "Midterm Review" means the review to be carried out
pursuant to Section 3.11 of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Pilot Phase" means activities, including
Microprojects to be carried out in the following four
districts:  Turkana, Baringo, Mandera and Wajir, under Part C
of the Project;
      (d)   "Project Area" means the arid districts of Turkana,
Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu
and the arid divisions of Baringo District;
      (e)   "Project Implementation Plan" means the plan referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and adopted pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.01 (e) to this Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 4, 1994 and
August 29, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each February 1 and August
1, commencing February 1, 2006 and ending August 1, 2035.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August
1, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
Page  4
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with
appropriate arid land management, land tenure and sound
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.  The said
plan shall at all times:  (i) be satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) cover all components of the Project,
subject to modifications based on implementation experience and
the Midterm Review referred to in Section 3.10 of this
Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, prepare and furnish to the Association not later
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project.
Such plan shall include, inter alia, the integration of the
Drought Management Secretariat referred to in Part A.1 of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the subunits dealing with
drought management in the District Project Support Units into
the regular civil service structure of the Borrower;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1996, establish and thereafter maintain the
Drought Contingency Fund referred to in Part A (f) of the
Project under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than
December 31, 1996, establish and thereafter maintain an
Emergency Cereal Reserve referred to under Part A.2 (g) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement under terms and conditions
Page  5
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
April 15 of every year, submit to the Association for review
and comments a training plan for the following year; and (b)
implement such training plan taking into account the views of
the Association.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1997, complete the study of laws and regulations
pertaining to the development of arid lands referred to in Part
E of Schedule 2 of this Agreement; (b) submit thereafter to the
Association for review and comments the findings of such study;
and (c) thereafter implement the recommendations of the study
within a time frame acceptable to the Association, taking into
account the views of the Association.
      Section 3.08. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the
Borrower shall:  (a) for the first four years of the Project,
implement Microprojects on a pilot basis in four selected
districts in the Project Area; and (b) ensure that communities
implementing Microprojects: (i) contribute at least 30% of the
cost of each Microproject, and (ii) follow procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:  (a) not later than
December 31, 1997, and (b) every year thereafter, carry out,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, an
evaluation of the impact of the Community Development component
of the Project, referred to in Part C of the Project, on the
lives of the people in the Project Area. This evaluation shall
cover, among other things: (i) the type of training and number
of trainees; (ii) the number of Microprojects presented,
approved, started and implemented; and (iii) the relative
success of the various types of Microprojects.
      (c)   In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out
of the evaluation referred to in (a) and (b) above, the
Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1996, carry out a
baseline survey of the socioeconomic conditions of the people
in the Project Area in a manner satisfactory to the
Association.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:  (a) not later than
December 31, 2000, carry out an evaluation of the impact of the
Project and the Program in a manner provided in Section 3.09 of
this Agreement; and (b) soon thereafter, furnish to the
Association for review and comment the findings of such review.
      Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall carry out jointly
with the Association, not earlier than September 30, 1998 and
not later than December 31, 1998, a Midterm Review of the
progress made in carrying out the Project and the Program. This
Review shall cover, among other things: (i) progress on drought
management; (ii) progress on marketing and infrastructure;
(iii) training; (iv) community development activities; (v) type
and number of Microprojects; (vi) results and recommendations
of the evaluation of the Community Development component
carried out pursuant to Section 3.09 of this Agreement; (vii)
benefits of improved market linkages; (viii) reduction in
drought-inflicted losses; (ix) increase in the off-farm income-
generation capacity; and (x) studies.
      (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, at
least 90 days prior to the Midterm Review described in
paragraph (a) above, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory
to the Association, describing the status of the items listed
in such paragraph and of Project and Program implementation
generally.
      (c)   Based on such Midterm Review, the Borrower shall
promptly prepare an action plan, acceptable to the Association,
Page  6
for the further implementation of the Project and the Program,
and shall thereafter implement such action plan.
      (d)   The action plan referred to in paragraph (c) above
shall include a recommendation to expand the Community
Development activities under Part C of the Project to all the
districts in the Project Area until completion of the Project.
      Section 3.12. In carrying out Part A.4 of the Project, the
Borrower shall:  (a) not later than March 31 of every year,
cause the District Works Office in every district in the
Project Area to prepare an annual road maintenance plan for the
following year; and (b) thereafter provide the districts with
adequate funds to implement the said road maintenance plan.
      Section 3.13. For the purpose of implementing the Project
at the district level, the Borrower and the Association shall
monitor the operation and effectiveness of the district payment
mechanism and review it as necessary.  Should the joint review
conclude that the payment mechanism is not effective, the
Borrower shall, not later than three months after being
notified by the Association, introduce and implement such
modifications of the payment mechanism or of the applicable
administrative and financial rules and procedures as may have
been agreed upon with the Association.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records,
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
Page  7
                  Association has received the audit report for
                  the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                  from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                  Special Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has entered into a contract,
satisfactory to the Association, with consultants to carry out
the study referred to in Part E.2 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the following
Project officers, with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association, have been recruited and have started work: (i) the
National Project Coordinator, (ii) the Drought Management
Coordinator, (iii) the Procurement Officer, (iv) the Finance
Officer, and (v) at least four District Project Coordinators.
      (c)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that a financial
management and accounting system for the Project, satisfactory
to the Association, has been established and is functioning;
      (d)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that the national
budget for the first year of Project implementation contains
adequate funds to meet Project expenditures for that year;
      (e)   the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation
Plan satisfactory to the Association;
      (f)   the Borrower has finalized terms of reference,
including pay scales, satisfactory to the Association, for
Project staff; and
      (g)   the Borrower has furnished to the Association:
Page  8
(i) audited accounts, satisfactory to the Association, for the
Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Credit No. 2460 KE); and
(ii) statements of sources and application of funds allocated
to Emergency Drought Recovery activities under the Rural
Services Design Project (Credit No. 1974 KE), the Second
National Extension Project (Credit No. 2199 KE) and the Animal
Health Services Project (Credit No. 1758 KE), all audited in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  FINANCE                       22921
                  Nairobi                       MINFIN-KE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                        By /s/ Benjamin E. Kipkorir
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated                % of
                           (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               2,820,000             90%
(2) Vehicles and              2,410,000             100% of foreign
    Equipment                                       expenditures
                                                    and 90% of local
                                                    expenditures
(3) Training and              1,480,000             100%
    Consultants'
    Services
(4) Goods, Works
    and Services
    for Micro-
    projects under
    Part C of the
    Project
    (a) For Pilot             1,140,000             70%
        Phase
        Districts
    (b) After Midterm           540,000             70%
        Review
(5) Incremental
    Operating
    costs:
    (a) Vehicles              1,210,000             90%
        Operations and
        Maintenance
    (b) Other Operations      3,950,000             90% for
        and Maintenance                             expenditures
                                                    incurred before
                                                    December 31, 1997,
                                                    80% for expen-
                                                    ditures made
                                                    before December
                                                    31, 1999 and 75%
                                                    thereafter
(6) Refunding of                140,000             Amounts due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                                    Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,110,000
                             __________
Page  10
        TOTAL                14,800,000
                             ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means costs
associated with vehicle maintenance, fuel, local staff costs
for Project staff recruited under contracts, office maintenance
and supplies.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for all incremental operating costs, local
training, civil works by force account, and for goods, works
and consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, for individual consultants not exceeding $50,000
equivalent and all expenditures under Category 4 under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) reduce the
widespread poverty and enhance food security in the Project
Area; and (b) conserve the natural resource base in the arid
lands through: (i) improving crop and livestock resilience to
drought; (ii) increasing economic linkages with the rest of the
economy; and (iii) improving basic health services, water
supply and other social services.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Drought Management
1.  Establishment of a Drought Management Secretariat to be
responsible for:
    (a)   developing policy on drought management;
    (b)   preparation of national and district drought manuals;
    (c)   preparation of strategic plans for droughts and
famines; and
    (d)   carrying out research on: (i) household vulnerability
on droughts and ways of coping with droughts; (ii) land tenure
systems in the Project Area; and (iii) herd movement, size and
restocking.
2.  Establishment of a District Support Unit in every district
in the Project Area to be responsible for:
    (a)   the operation of a Drought Early Warning System;
    (b)   preparation of a district drought manual and
Page  11
contingency plans;
    (c)   preparation of drought intervention plans and the
implementation of drought mitigation plans;
    (d)   coordination and implementation of post-drought
recovery measures;
    (e)   carrying out appraisals, monitoring and ex-post
evaluations of recovery measures;
    (f)   establishment and maintenance of a Drought Contingency
Fund to finance immediate drought mitigation interventions;
    (g)   establishment and maintenance of an Emergency Cereal
Reserve to be used for emergency food relief; and
    (h)   carrying out other Project-related activities.
3.  Establishment and maintenance of drought mitigation centers
in selected areas and drought grazing reserves.
4.  Improving maintenance of roads in the Project Area through
the acquisition of spare parts for road equipment and tools for
workshops.
Part B:   Marketing and Infrastructure
1.  Creating an enabling marketing environment to facilitate the
movement of livestock and livestock products through:
    (a)   rehabilitation of stock routes, water points and other
infrastructure facilities;
    (b)   development of new and rehabilitation of existing
market-related infrastructure, including animal holding
grounds, animal marketing centers and slaughter houses;
    (c)   improvement and strengthening of the Livestock
Marketing Information System through the acquisition of radio
communication equipment and a computer data system; and
    (d)   development of user-related initiatives in marketing of
animals, including training in credit systems, animal health,
hides and skins treatment, accounting and maintenance and
operation of community facilities.
Part C:   Community Development
1.  Preparation and implementation of community-based
Microprojects for:
    (a)   establishing and rehabilitating facilities for low-cost
sustainable water supply schemes, human and animal health care
delivery and integrated literacy, hygiene and nutrition
programs;
    (b)   establishing woodlots for fuelwood;
    (c)   testing proven technological packages on water
harvesting, controlled grazing, renewable energy and fuel-
efficient cooking;
    (d)   training and orienting communities in resource
conservation and maintenance, managing development initiates,
drought management and livestock routes; and
    (e)   other activities identified by the communities.
Part D:   Training
Page  12
1.  Training of planners, policy-makers, field implementers,
community leaders and other community members in Project
implementation activities.
2.  Developing appropriate curricula to conduct "under the tree"
training courses for community members.
3.  Training, including orientation courses, for middle- and
senior-level civil servants on drought management, livestock
marketing and community development programs.
4.  Acquisition of library books, manuals, teaching aids and
other educational equipment.
Part E:   Studies
1.  Carrying out a study on the degradation of the natural
resource base and developing a policy and legal framework on
natural resource conservation, including studies on: (i)
regulations and practices on grazing rights; (ii) creating
institutional and non-formal conflict-resolution mechanisms,
(iii) testing improved desert resource management technologies;
(iv) implications of sedentarization of stock routes and
emergency grazing reserves; (v) implications of dry season
grazing areas; (vi) regime of restriction of movement of cattle
from the arid lands to other parts of the country; (vii) market
information systems for livestock; and (viii) ways to involve
the private sector in the establishment of slaughter houses.
2.  Carrying out a review of laws and regulations pertaining to
the development of arid lands, including a study on the land
tenure system and development of instruments to protect and
enforce the tenurial rights of pastoralists in the Project
Area.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for:  (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii)
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
Page  13
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and radios
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,500,000.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
less for each contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$4,600,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertized locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.  Contracts for civil works for repairing roads estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be carried out by
District Works Offices using force account.
3.  Vehicles, computers, survey equipment, radio equipment and
other equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.  Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
5.  Contracts for Microprojects under Part C of the Project may
be awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers or contractors eligible
under the Guidelines or after direct negotiations with
suppliers and contractors in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
Page  14
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, shortlists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:  (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to:  (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Page  15
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 2,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to                
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  16
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request, or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
