Page  1
July 10, 2000
Mr. Martin Luke Odour-Otieno
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Treasury Building
Nairobi 
Kenya
Dear Mr. Odour-Otieno,
KENYA - Arid Lands Resource Management Project (Cr. 2797-KE)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), 
dated February 13, 1996, between the Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and 
International Development Association (the Association).  We also refer to the letter 
from the Permanent Secretary, Provincial Administration, Mr. Z.K.A. Cheruiyot, dated 
March 27, 2000, requesting amendment to the DCA and reallocation of funds.
We are pleased to inform that the Association agrees to your requests and proposes 
that:
(a)
A new category of expenditure, Rapid Response Fund, is established in 
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement for implementation of the 
Drought Contingency Fund (Part A(2)(f) of Schedule 2, Description of the 
Project).
(b)
Category 4(a) is closed, and category 4(b) of Schedule 1 is reallocated 
funds to reflect the mid term review decision to continue the 
microprojects component.  All microprojects expenditures from this date 
forward should be charged to Category 4(b).
(c)
The table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit 
Agreement, reflecting needed reallocations, is amended to read as per 
Attachment l to this letter.  
(d)
The description of the Drought Contingency Fund in Schedule 2, 
Description of the Project is expanded to read "establishment and 
maintenance of a Drought Contingency Fund to finance immediate drought 
mitigation interventions detailed in district drought contingency plans, 
such as emergency livestock offtake, food for work programmes, support to 
schools, and repairs and maintenance of water supplies."
If you agree to the above amendments, please countersign and date the duplicate 
original of this letter in the space provided below and return the countersigned 
original to us for our records.  These amendments shall come into effect on the date 
of the countersignature by you.
Yours Sincerely,
By /s/ Jaime Biderman
Acting Country Director
World Bank
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
Page  2
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
Attachment
CC:
Dr. Richard E. Leakey
Permanent Secretary, Secretary to the 
Cabinet and Head of Public Service
Office of the President
Mr. Z.K.A. Cheruiyot
Permanent Secretary
Provincial Administration
Office of the President
Harambee House
Mr. Vincent Lelei
Programme Coordinator
Arid Lands Resource Management Project
Office of the President
KICC 13th Floor
Mr. Chiboli Shakaba
World Bank Desk Officer
External Resources Department
Ministry of Finance and Planning
The Treasury
Cleared with/cc: Messrs./Mmes. Ganguly (AFTR1), Al Habsy (LEGAF), Wijesinghe (LOAAF)
cc:  Messrs./Mmes. Cornelius, Quisumbing, Lane, Nkole, Bulls (AFTR1), Gachukia, 
Kaguamba, Githagui, Nyaga, Ogallo, Olale, Warsame (AFMKE), 
Marlett, Amiri (AFC05), Biderman (AFTKQ), Venn (LOAAF), File 
2797-KE - G13 - Amendment, O2 - Revised withdrawal schedule
CCornelius
