                             Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                      Report No: 27560

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-27970 PPFI-P8650)

                                 ON A

                               CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 22 MILLION

                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                KENYA

                               FOR THE

              ARID LANDS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                           December 30, 2003




AFTS2
AFRICA REGION

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective December 30, 2003)

                                   Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings
                                      KShs. 75.9 = US$ 1
                                        US$ .013 = Kshs. 1

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 -   June 30

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AL      Arid Lands
ASAL    Arid and Semiarid Lands
CBPP    Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
CCPP    Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia
CD      Community Development
CF      Contingency Fund
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DDC     District Development Committee
DFS     District Focus Strategy
DMP     Drought Monitoring Project
DPIRP   Drought Preparedness, Intervention and Recovery Project
DSG     District Steering Group
DSU     District Support Unit
EIRR    Economic Internal Rate of Return
GOK     Government of Kenya
KFFSG   Kenya Food Security Steering Group
KFSM    Kenya Food Security Meeting
KRDS    Kenya Rural Development Strategy
MET     Mobile Extension Team
MTR     Mid Term Review
NCPD    National Cereals and Produce Depot
NSU     National Support Unit
PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SGR     Strategic Grain Reserve


                                  Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                                Country Director     Makhtar Diop
                                 Sector Manager      Karen Brooks
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Christine Cornelius

                                            KENYA
                          Arid Lands Resource Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P001331                                                  Project Name: Arid Lands Resource Management
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Christine E. Cornelius                                  TL Unit: AFTS2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: Arid Lands Resource Management Project                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-27970; PPFI-P8650
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (57%); Other social services
                            (15%); Agricultural marketing and trade (14%); General agriculture,
                            fishing and forestry sector (7%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (7%)
                  Theme: Nutrition and food security (P); Land management (P); Water
                            resource management (P); Natural disaster management (P); Other
                            rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/11/1993                                     Effective: 07/12/1996                07/12/1996
     Appraisal: 06/13/1994                                         MTR: 09/15/1999                  10/04/1999
      Approval: 12/14/1995                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Kenya/Office of the President
                      Other Partners:      WFP, OXFAM GB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   James Adams
Sector Manager:                 Karen Mcconnell Brooks                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:             Christine E. Cornelius                         Christine E. Cornelius
ICR Primary Author:             John Weatherhogg; Turi
                                Fileccia; Geert Beekuis; and Tim
                                Roberts (FAO)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project objectives at appraisal were to strengthen and support community driven initiatives to: (a)
reduce the widespread poverty and enhance food security in the arid districts of Turkana, Marsabit,
Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Samburu, and the arid divisions of Baringo District (this1/


and subsequent end notes are found in Section 10); and (b) conserve the natural resource base in the arid
lands through: (i) improving crop and livestock resilience to drought; (ii) increasing economic linkages with
the rest of the economy; and (iii) improving basic health services, water supply and other social services.

These objectives were important for the country's natural resources sector and in line with the Arid and
Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) policy framework and the Government of Kenya (GOK) District Focus Strategy
in the 1980s and 1990s and Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy. More recently Kenya's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) and the Kenya Rural Development Strategy (KRDS) both reflect the
                                     2/                                                      3/


project's objectives and emphasize the need for greater decentralization in decision making and
implementation.

Risks were identified at appraisal as: (i) possible inadequacy of implementation capacity, lack of
coordination at district and national level and ineffective implementation by the districts; (ii) weakness of
teams to facilitate the participative project approach (particularly given the very large area to be covered);
and (iii) inadequate flow of funds.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The Mid-Term Review (MTR) in November 1999 improved the focus of the project objective which was
formally amended "to build the capacity of communities in the arid districts of Kenya to better cope with
drought" This objective was the focus of implementation performance during the remainder of the project
period . This restructuring of the project was done for several reasons, including an explicit intention of the
government to address the vulnerability of the populations of the region to improve their ability to manage
risk. The region suffered frequent, severe droughts and the El Niño flood in the 90's, which caused the
drought management aspect of the project to be raised in importance by the time of the MTR.

3.3 Original Components:

The project had three investment components and an overall project support component.

(a) Drought Management was to institutionalize drought management at the national and district levels so
as to allow effective management at all phases of a drought. These included preparedness through drought
monitoring; mitigation by drought contingency planning and rapid reaction; and recovery by means of
continued drought relief activities.

(b) Marketing and Infrastructure addressed constraints to livestock market linkages between the arid
lands (AL) and the rest of the Kenyan economy.

(c) Community Development (CD) assisted line departments and other collaborating agencies to adapt
their organization and delivery systems to the specific conditions of the ALs, so as to become more
responsive to the communities' needs and demands.




                                                      - 2 -

In addition, a Project Implementation Support component provided for the establishment, staffing and
equipping of a National Project Coordination Office, a National Project Steering Committee and a District
Steering Group (DSG) in each district serviced by small District Support Units (DSUs) of project staff.
Lastly, the project included funding for a range of training activities, studies and provision of technical
assistance.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components remained the same throughout the implementation period, however the drought
management component was enhanced at MTR with the rapid response fund at the district level (for which
a disbursement category was added). The final results were as follows:

(a) Drought Management, Cost US$ 10.9 Million, rating Satisfactory
(b) Marketing and Infrastructure, Cost US$ 3.4 million, Rating Satisfactory
(c) Community Development, Cost US$ 5.9 million, Rating Satisfactory
(d) Project Implementation Support, Cost US$ 4.9 million, Rating Satisfactory


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was uniquely designed as a risk management instrument - the project design conceived the
establishment of a viable, government-run system of drought management, through early warning systems,
contingency plans, mitigation and quick response. The project design also devolved responsibility to
district and community level, encouraging civil servants and other district development actors to empower
local communities in the design and implementation of development projects. The design was not
prescriptive in its diagnosis of the problems of marketing and infrastructure, and allowed for discussion and
innovation at the district level, as well as for studies at the national level to address long standing problems
such as the management of animal health and land tenure issues.

The project's devolved and participative design resulted in the components being seen as a general outline
rather than a blueprint for implementation. Project design was highly innovative - the whole concept of the
project was seen at appraisal and during implementation as a process ­ not as a blue-print. Ideas were to
be tried out and through the District Steering Groups (DSGs), with local communities brought into decision
making. As a result, over time there has been a considerable blurring of the boundaries between the three
main components, so that some types of investment ­ e.g. water supply ­ appropriately occur in each of
the three. In addition, project implementation support was in practice divided between the three investment
components ­ even though it appears as a line item in the appraisal summary cost table. This makes the
allocation of actual cost by component and comparisons to appraisal estimates difficult. The project's
flexible design has generally had a positive effect and has encouraged initiation of new ways of operating
during implementation and managing funds flow. The only significant item which has suffered as a result of
this broad-brush approach is monitoring and evaluation, where inadequate detail was provided as to what
was required in the baseline studies and the range and type of information to be collected on a regular basis,
which has hindered the measurement of project impact.

The project was able to build on the experience of previous projects and take advantage of changes in GOK
policies. In particular, project design benefited from being able to incorporate the Drought Monitoring
System which had been developed under the Netherlands supported Drought Management Project (DMP)
and subsequently, Drought Preparedness, Intervention and Recovery Project (DPIRP). This was further
developed into the project's drought management component and Early Warning System (EWS). Further



                                                        - 3 -

lessons were also learned from the implementation experience of the IDA financed Emergency Drought
Recovery Project - EDRP (Cr. 2460-KE), while the GOK District Focus Strategy (DFS) provided policy
encouragement for a more devolved system of project implementation.

The mission therefore rates project quality at entry as satisfactory.  4/




4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project, through its approach to addressing the risk and vulnerability of the arid lands populations, has
achieved its objective of building the capacity of communities to better cope with drought. The overall
project outcome as well as its implementation performance is therefore rated as satisfactory ­ and in some
aspects highly satisfactory.

The project established a drought management system which is recognized by stakeholders at all levels as
successful. Impact evaluation done by WFP and the FAO show that emergency interventions carried out
during the project period were better targeted, cost efficient, and resulted not only in saving lives, but saved
livelihoods by reducing animal mortalities. The project put in place successful mitigation measures such as
animal destocking, invested in well planned and community maintained, sustainable water systems, all of
which reduced disruption during times of stress, which has prevented the loss of community and individual
assets. The system is one which the government and others consider reliable and worth the continued
investment of public funds. Communities, through the project's beneficiary assessment, reported that those
in the project area felt that their ability to cope with adversity had dramatically improved, through the
monitoring system as well as through improved access to water and human and animal health care.

Through the introduction of national and district management structures, the project has improved the
overall coordination of assistance to the ALs. This not only benefited the project, but also provided a good
basis for other donors to assist the AL. The project has also played a leading role in the overall national
coordination of donors, culminating in the establishment of the Kenya Food Security Meeting (KFSM).
Adequate and timely information provided by the project also enabled proper scheduling of drought
mitigation assistance. The project has also been highly successful in developing a devolved system of
implementation with full participation, involvement and ownership by district governments, institutions and
communities. At district level, the primary impact has been the establishment of functional local entities
such as the District Steering Groups (DSGs), the enhanced capacity of line-ministries' human resources
involved in project implementation (Mobile Extension Teams, METs), the start of effective decentralized
planning and implementation and improved linkage between communities and their local institutions. The
organization of the project at district level has been instrumental in the initiation of such a devolved
development practice. Indeed, this has contributed positively towards a gradual empowerment process of
the arid lands' people, enhancing their voice a the national level, as witnessed through the pastoral thematic
team which participated in the formulation of Kenya's PRSP.

As expected in the SAR, the project's environmental impact has been substantially beneficial. However,
continued care and monitoring of the effect of water points on grazing concentration and borehole water
abstraction on ground water resources will be required. Due to the continued vulnerability of ALs peoples
due to their risky environment, financial assistance provided to the communities has been largely on a grant
basis.5/ The area will need this support for the foreseeable future, however, the systems put in place by the
project should encourage more investment in development as the better management of emergencies should
reduce the population's downward spiral. Since the aim of the project is to increase capacity and not to



                                                        - 4 -

encourage dependency as well as to ensure future sustainability, these aspects need careful monitoring.
Finally, the project did make some progress in developing a framework for natural resource management,
and did achieve a better understanding of how to monitor, protect and sustainably develop the arid lands
resource base. The successful establishment of drought grazing reserves and overall analysis of discreet
development plans for wet and dry season grazing areas are good examples. However the near constant
drought and flood conditions over the project period has left some work to be done on these long term
natural resource management issues, which have been built into the design of second phase of the project.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Output indicators are presented in Annex 1, linked to project components and development objectives.
Anticipated outcomes during appraisal are compared with actual achievements, or estimates based on
project monitoring and implementation experience. The outline of the component outputs summarized
hereafter follows that of the SAR.

Drought Management (DM) included improved preparedness (drought monitoring), mitigation (drought
contingency planning and rapid response) and drought recovery. The project has strengthened an effective
drought monitoring system within an innovative drought cycle concept.      6/ Some 822 District and national
EWS bulletins have been published, with a few exceptions on a regular and monthly basis since 1996. The
drought monitoring system, inherited by the project from the EDRP and extended to all the AL districts,
                                                                       7/


has proved reliable for drought situation analysis and has provided the information basis for response
actions. Drought Management bulletins have continuously provided the prevailing drought cycle situation
and foreseen trends as well as (mostly) qualitative information on environmental conditions, rural
economy, welfare indicators, migration trends, current interventions and recommendations for action. The
drought monitoring data and analyses have formed the basis for the coordinated GOK/donors follow-up
actions decided upon during the monthly meetings of the KFSM and those ad hoc of the Kenya Food
Security Steering Group (KFSSG). Despite the wealth of information collected by the project, data and
historical series for evaluation purposes have not been properly analyzed due to current limitations of the
design of the data management system. Data system and management improvements need to be made for its
sustained utilization. 8/ Some DSGs are also critical that while the system works well in providing
information from the district to the national level, there is inadequate return information flow. These
concerns are addressed in the design of the second phase.

The Early Warning System (EWS) is of vital importance to Kenya. More than 75% of the country has a
fragile arid or semi arid environment with recurrent droughts. In its current form with a wide range of
indicators, interview formats and many sample locations, recurrent costs are substantial. If, as envisaged,
the Semi Arid (SA) districts are also included, the system will probably have more indicators covering
environment and natural resources and GOK would need to begin to bear higher costs . Future
                                                                                          9/


sustainability of the EWS will require increasing annual government contributions. The government is
currently contributing 25%, and will move to 60% during the second phase of the project.

The project has undertaken a number of drought mitigation interventions through a participatory approach,
unprecedented in the ALs. For each of the eleven districts, Strategic Drought Management and
Contingency Plans have been elaborated by the DSGs chaired by the District Commissioners, and including
the main stakeholders at that level. Communities have provided their perceptions on the main constraining
factors through a Participative Rural Appraisal (PRA) process and have accordingly set their drought
mitigation and developmental priorities. Nevertheless, not everywhere and at all times have contingency



                                                      - 5 -

plans have proved fully responsiveness to the relevant drought cycle stages. Over time, some of these plans
have become obsolete due to the rapidly changing environment and need more frequent updating. In some
cases it was found that the drought management interventions within the Annual Work Plans reflected DSG
priorities more than those expressed by the communities.

Chronic ethnic rivalries in the AL have intensified with the increased pressure on the drought stressed
resource base and the project has played an important role by facilitating resolution of conflict issues .10/


GOK has improved the NCPD (National Cereal and Produce Depots) system making it functional in the
districts through its SGR (Strategic Grain Reserve) program which includes also a special trust fund . As 11/


a result the original project proposals for district level cereal stocks were not necessary and were not
implemented.

Contingency Funds (CF) have been established starting in FY2001/02 after a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) amendment in July 2000 (creating the rapid response category), since there was no
specific procurement category in the original agreement. CFs have been utilized for facilitating conflict
resolution, creation of shelter facilities for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), supporting water tankering
to remote communities, provision of fast moving spares and emergency repairs of boreholes. Eligibility
criteria for CF interventions include recommendations from the Drought Monitoring Bulletins, priorities of
the target communities, inclusion within Drought Contingency Plans, and the approval by the District
Support Unit (DSU) and DSG. In some cases, actual expenditures show utilisation of the contingency
funds towards longer term district investments rather than as an emergency funding mechanism.      12/This
has been corrected in the design of the second phase. A total amount of US$1.03 million (KSh. 84.5
million) has been spent through CFs, or about 5% of total project expenditure.

As a further drought mitigation measure, the project has equipped 24 areas of selected pasture land (free
from tribal conflicts) with temporary water supplies to be replenished by tankering as grazing reserves. In
the absence of a general land use planning and pro-pastoralists land tenure policy encompassing creation of
permanent grazing reserves for use during drought, the option adopted by the project has proved effective.
Particularly, during the 1999-2001 drought it improved the overall carrying capacity and mitigated
rangeland degradation in the vicinity of boreholes.

During the very severe 1999-2001 drought, the project shortened the response time, promoted effective
government-donor coordination and created a community-based targeting system, allowing vulnerable
groups improved access to food supplies. This enabled US$300 million of food aid to be made available to
about 3.3 million people. The donor community's response included also a number of interventions for
some US$6.3 million addressing mainly animal de-stocking, animal health interventions, supplementary
feeding and watering points. An assessment of these emergency interventions shows a positive impact
particularly for those investments that had followed an approach similar to that of ALRMP and has
confirmed the effectiveness of the DSG role.

This component absorbed about US$ 9.1 Million (54% of the total amount of project investment), and has
addressed access to water (76%), improved irrigated crop production systems (10%), increased human
health services (9%) and cereal grain reserves (2%), as well as supporting livestock health and education
(2%).

Marketing and Infrastructure. Livestock production is the economic mainstay of the pastoral areas,
contributing some 19% of Kenya's overall meat demand, but with a much higher potential given its share
of national animal population (18-20% of cattle; 35-40% of sheep and goats and 100% of camels).        13/   The



                                                        - 6 -

main water investments financed by the project, boreholes, water pans and shallow wells, improve both
livestock and human well-being and health. Community water users associations have been formed and are
supported. Further follow-up and training will be required to ensure adequate maintenance, equitable
management and avoidance of conflicts. The number of livestock marketing infrastructures planned (62)
and actually implemented (53) by the project have surpassed the anticipated expectations (48). Stock
routes have been improved through the creation of additional or rehabilitation of existing watering points.  14/


Holding grounds have been created in proximity of primary and secondary livestock market centers,
improving the contractual power of producers; new markets and sale yards have been promoted at
divisional level, enabling a decongestion of the district markets; slaughterhouse standards were raised with
consequent improved hygiene, ante and postmortem health control, increased town council tax collection,
meat quality and overall environmental conditions.

The value of the marketing interventions has been modest (US$ 1.8 Million, only 10% of total investment
value). However, an off-take increase of more than double the SAR anticipation is reported, based on sales
and consumption trends collected on a monthly basis (through the EWS monitoring) in each district.     15/




In fact, the project contributed to these positive trends in off-take through improved monitoring of drought
conditions, and the better management of the severe droughts and other events     16/which took place during
the project period. Offtake levels in the arid lands are very much structurally related with fluctuations in
animal populations which in turn depend on the pastoral risk management strategies adopted by the herders
(developing the herds during normal years and decreasing them before and during drought years and
following different patterns for large and small stock). The project has attempted to influence this
behavior. Proposals made through consultancies to improve livestock market information systems were
considered as too costly and inappropriate to the ALs' conditions were not been implemented. It is well
recognized however that a more effective market infrastructure system is of major importance for the
pastoralists and urgently requires clear policy direction (for example on animal disease control) and further
investments in road infrastructure. The increased voice and advocacy which has been created during the
project period has led to increased recognition of these issues, and many of them will addressed during the
period of the second phase of the project, through World Bank as well as other donor and government
contribution..

Community Development has had favorable social, economic and environmental impact. Implementation
has been fully participatory, including PRAs preceded by a facilitation/training process initiated with the
communities by the METs, the design of Community Action Plans (CAPs), a community-based selection of
micro-project beneficiaries, beneficiary group and management committee formation and
technical/managerial training, and the raising of a 30% community contribution to costs. Over 1200
micro-projects have been implemented benefiting some 180,000 people and addressing several sectoral
needs identified by the communities. This component absorbed US$ 6.3 Million (about 37% of the total
investments under the project), addressing the following sectors: small ruminant herds restocking (32%),
education (28%), income generating activities (15%), agriculture (13%), water (5%) human health, shelter,
animal health and appropriate technology. In the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) it was expected that
micro-projects facilitated by the DSUs would also be implemented by NGOs and directly by the
communities. This did not occur right away because of GOK procurement regulations which were
modified only in 2001, with only a few projects subsequently implemented in this way in the one district of
Mandera.

The CD component was originally implemented in only four districts, Mandera, Wajir, Baringo and
Turkana. The expansion into the six other districts from November 1999 has given little time for



                                                       - 7 -

micro-projects in these districts to have any significant impact. Amongst the best performing
micro-projects are the IGAs with women's groups and restocking activities. At present all of these are
funded through matching grants (70% of the investment). Consideration could be given to the creation of
local revolving funds for profitable micro-projects. This would have the advantage of extending the
coverage of project beneficiaries and also reducing the degree of dependency on the project. The
participatory planning approach applied to the CD component has proven viable and effective. The
community-based selection system of the micro-project beneficiaries has made an attempt to targeting the
poorest. However, there is always an inevitable bias towards addressing the needs of the more easily
served and better organized beneficiaries. The approach would be improved if there could be more frequent
consultation with the communities to update the understanding of constraints and to refine the needs and
priorities. This reiteration would facilitate a broader and more equitable participation and distribution of
the benefits.



Results Disaggregated by Sector (across the three components)          17/




Animal Health interventions included improved capacity in terms of Community Animal Health Workers
(CAHWs), improved clinical treatment of livestock, and support for epidemic control has had a modest, but
positive impact. The project has financed training of 1,011 CAHWs and a further 745 have graduated
through the collaboration of partner agencies. The vastness of the AL, the poor infrastructure, the high
delivery costs and the transhumant nature of the pastoralists has hampered growth of private animal health
services. The idea of community-based animal health workers in conjunction with the pastoral and livestock
producers' association providing services under the supervision of the Veterinary Department (to whom
monitoring data and notifiable diseases are so reported), is a justified, cost-effective way forward.
Standardized training methods, curricula and guidelines have been elaborated and adopted through several
stakeholder workshops     18/,, however a continuing conflict with the vested interests of the veterinary
department has held back progress in the introduction of a sustainable private veterinary service.
However, good results in 2002 is shown by an 11% vaccination coverage increase and a 15% decrease in
CBPP and CCPP       19/will hopefully serve to convince the department that the participation of producers and
traders in the animal health regime will be beneficial to all.

Support to Crop Production. Crop production indicators recorded by the METs at all the 9,000
"demonstration plots", through the supply of inputs, have shown yield increases on average higher at 5%
p.a. compared to the 3% p.a. anticipated in the SAR. The trends for cropped area and yields of the major
crops in arid districts provided by the Early Warning and Food Information System of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MoARD) show far more significant changes. Average maize and
bean yields have reportedly increased by 30% p.a. while sorghum yields and cropped area have decreased
                                                     20/


in average respectively by 6 and 3% annually. Cropped area of maize and beans is recorded to have
increased continuously by as much as 50-60% per annum           21/The trend of increasing agricultural
activities, particularly irrigated crops, was confirmed by farmers and other stakeholders. While AL
livelihood will continue to be based on livestock and pastoralism, diversification continues wherever
feasible into agropastoralism and agricultural development. High and medium potential agricultural land is
limited to about 200,000 ha     22/which can only be developed over time and with careful design of communal
irrigation and extension support.    23/




Water Supply investments represent 43% of total project expenditures including 779 boreholes
rehabilitated (15%); shallow wells dug or improved (58%), water pans constructed or rehabilitated by



                                                        - 8 -

desilting / enlargement / catchment improvement (10%); springs protected (2%); and masonry /
ferro-cement / underground tanks constructed (15%). Information on how many new water supply units
have been actually realized by the project is not available. However, rehabilitation of water sources
includes many cases of complete restoration of non-operational units. Project improved access to water has
reached an estimated 40% or 800,000 of the AL population and an equivalent or higher percentage of
livestock population. At each site the project has provided for management and technical training to the
elected members (4-6) of the Water Users Management Committees, which is supported by the new Water
Act, and whose strengthening will be continued under the second phase.

Human Health and Education included training of Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs), numbers of
which were about 29% below SAR estimates and Community Health Workers (CHWs) 7% more than the
SAR target. Based on district departmental officers estimates there has been a decrease in major common
diseases, but the decline in child mortality of 4% p.a. is below the 5% p.a. SAR target. This might be
explained by the two severe droughts and the El Niño floods. Investments in human health sector account
for about 6% of total project costs. The project has constructed 17 new dispensaries and rehabilitated
another 17. The walking distance has halved for the benefiting communities (over 13 percent of the total
population) from 30 km to 10-15 km. Latrines have been built (64) improving sanitation. Drugs and
equipment have been distributed during malaria or diarrhea outbreaks and mobile clinical services provided
to pastoral communities in the remote grazing areas. Project interventions in slaughter houses, water
supply and animal health have also improved overall sanitation, hygiene and environmental conditions. All
these facilities have been beneficial and are perceived as such by the communities.
Construction/rehabilitation of village primary schools as well as the purchase of textbooks and equipment
(230 schools assisted) has been much appreciated and has a significant social impact. Schools are unable
to fully maintain buildings and purchase up-to-date text books and other necessities without GOK
assistance. The latter will be particularly crucial in view of the new Government's free-education policy
and the consequent increase in enrolments.

Studies. The study entitled "Policy and legal framework on pastoral land tenure and resource management
in the Arid Lands of Kenya"    24/was unable to provide effective recommendations and is therefore
inconclusive. A second consultancy on the same subject was more participatory and allowed for broader
consultation with district administrations and pastoral communities involving also the Njonjo Commission
which had been charged by the former Government to study the issues affecting proper land use. However,
the Commission also did not conclude with legislative recommendations due to political considerations
beyond the scope of the project. A study on the Quarantine line imposed on the northern rangelands due to
the prevalence of Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (CBPP) was conducted         25/and made useful
proposals for moving the line to the country borders, which is being studied by the Veterinary Department.
No effective study on marketing information system has been conducted (see above)

A Beneficiary Assessment    26/was externally contracted by the project and conducted in three districts
(Baringo, Turkana and Wajir). The study found that it was too early to see an impact on the incomes of
intervention communities as compared to those that did not benefit from any project advantage.   27/ However
the perceived impact of the project by the AL communities is universally positive mainly, in terms of
improved access to water and human health conditions but also as a means that has increased their capacity
to cope with adversities. Better management of household risk and the subsequent lowering of their overall
vulnerability from external forces was clearly evident. At the national level, stakeholders reported an
unprecedented visibility of the pastoralists' issues, initiating a true empowerment process for pastoralists
on the national stage.




                                                       - 9 -

Training. The project's core strategy was a completely participatory approach to AL communities in
identifying needs, planning actions, implementing, operating and maintaining the project financed assets.
For this a major training program was undertaken, including training of implementers and community
leaders/facilitators; community members on planning-implementing and operating initiatives; and
specialized training of project and district level departmental staff and local administration staff on
thematic areas related to the project. The program included courses, workshops, exchange visits and study
tours related to all three component activities. In this respect, the project increased capacity at community,
district and national levels.

Project Implementation Support has been highly satisfactory as competent staff carried out their tasks in
a professional, effective and efficient manner and administrative systems for procurement and flow of funds
were substantially improved during project implementation. Despite this positive picture, there were some
difficulties. Adoption of GOK procurement rules and regulations enabling more direct involvement of
communities in procurement took a long time and is still incomplete. Government rules required a bank
guarantee from any partner agency for funds transfer, making implementation by a local NGO difficult.
Following the MTR the Ministry of Finance finally approved in early 2001 the funding of collaborating
agencies without bank guarantee    28/The monitoring and evaluation sub-component has never been
thoroughly implemented (also due to design limitations, see 3.5), despite being frequently mentioned as
necessary by WB MTR and supervision missions. Information collected for the baseline survey (three years
after project start-up) and for the beneficiary assessment are in both cases mostly qualitative.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The economic analysis of the project is set out in Annex 3. The analysis was done using the same
methodology used at appraisal, however there are shortcomings of this analytical framework. First, the
project has important social objectives, including community capacity building , education, improved health
and even reduced human mortality, all of which are problematic to value particularly, in terms of direct
project influence. Second, the analysis results depend heavily on the assumptions made regarding likely
timing of drought events and therefore benefits due to decreased risk and vulnerability are not fully
quantified. Attempting the recalculation using as far as possible identical assumptions as in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) ­ which assumed that the project would affect the total population in the ten
districts - the economic internal rate of return (EIRR) is estimated between 20 to 23%, depending on
livestock price assumptions. This is higher than the 17% forecast at appraisal, due to the slower build-up
of costs and higher mortality savings.

If it is assumed that the project only covers 40% of the total AL population (as opposed to 100%) the
EIRR would be around 10-12%, assuming no benefits during the first four years of the project. Given all
the uncertainties already referred to, in the mission's view this could be taken to represent the most
reasonable base case analysis for the project. It is conservatively assumed that all benefits related to
reduced mortality in the 1999-2001 drought occurred in the fifth year of the project (2000/01), and not in
the 1999/00 year. If the costs associated with training and consultancies are netted out of the costs stream
the EIRR would increase to 12-14%.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

No financial analysis was made at appraisal and has not been attempted at ICR.




                                                      - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional impact of the project at national, district and community level has been substantial. At the
national level the project management and knowledge base ­ in particular through the EWS - have been a
major catalyst in bringing together GOK and a range of donors and in the successful operation of the
KFSM. At the district level the formation of the DSGs has proved to be an effective mechanism for
involvement of beneficiaries in decision making as well as coordinating district level agencies. DSGs have
been so successful that in some districts they have largely become a more participatory manifestation of the
District Development Committee (DDC). The drought contingency fund and the community development
component empowered the DSGs whereas the DDCs had no development funds at their disposal. Also
DSGs have had a more motivated civil society participation, and a more streamlined management structure.
In the early years, this led to friction, especially from the line ministry civil servants who could not continue
to operate in their sectoral silos. In most cases de facto the two committees have been combined. The
participatory methodology of the project did lead to increased capacity of the government departments at
the district level, and a new way of doing business, through the formation of the Mobile Extension Teams
(METs) for the implementation of the CD component. This factor, and the one above has led to decreased
autonomy and weakened power of the line ministries in favor of multisectoral planning and implementation.
In this transition phase, however, DSUs complain that METs are not fully available and accountable to the
team, and their frequent turnover/transfer is a waste of training investments. Despite this, the relocation of
these technical officers might also be considered beneficial as it expands the capacity created in other
districts.

At the community level the project has been successful in increasing capacity and empowering groups as a
result of the implementation of community investments, which includes a large number of training
activities. Community Development Committees (CDCs) identify, implement and manage CD investments.
The participation of women in the CDCs, and the general strengthening of women's groups, mainly for
small-scale trading, has been successful and appears to be growing independent from the project's
assistance. From the small trading begun under the project, some of the groups appear to be already
developing towards savings, loans and mutual insurance associations.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Virtually the whole of the implementation period has been marked by natural calamities, notably the
1996/97 drought, the 1997/98 El Niño floods and the 1999-2001 drought. As the essence of the project is
to establish systems to deal with these calamities, the system was tested to the maximum, and was
successful. However, these radical climatic events do seem to be occurring with greater frequency than in
the past, and this is a fact that impacts on the future development path of the region. The project was also
adversely affected by the unsettled situation in neighboring countries and across-border livestock raiding.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment to the project has been strong throughout implementation. This has been
reflected in provision of the necessary policy basis for the project ­ in particular for initiating devolution to
the districts ­ as well as providing a clear indication of the project's importance through the attachment of
the project coordination unit to the Office of the President. An important contributory factor to the
project's success was that for the whole period it was (together with its collaborating agencies) the only


                                                        - 11 -

adequately financed government support program in the ALs. Negative factors include the lack of
government policy guidance on livestock marketing and animal health, land tenure issues and security. The
latter have constrained project implementation and created difficulties for livestock traders. Project
implementation was sometimes slowed by delays in release of budget at the start of the financial year,
which could sometimes mean that support to a seasonal activity could only be provided in the following
year. Government agreement to modify financial controls so as to allow more effective flow of funds to
communities has helped the project in its last few years of implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

By recruiting staff on contract terms, the Project Coordination Unit nationally and in each district was able
to attract and retain good quality locally based staff with strong identification and ownership of community
issues and problems. A project covering almost two-thirds of the country presented the implementing
agency with a considerable challenge in logistical management and supervision, which has been
successfully met.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$25.1 million (KSh 1,323 million) of which SDR 14.8
million or US$22 million (88 percent) was to be financed by an IDA credit. At credit closing on June 30,
2003 total costs are estimated at US$25.4 million. Due to appreciation of the US$ against the SDR the
total credit amount is equivalent to US$19.6 million, has been completely disbursed. Costs by expenditure
categories at ICR are broadly in line with appraisal expectations, the main differences being an
under-expenditure on civil works and an overrun on incremental operating costs. No details of project
costs by component were made available to the mission. This and the absence of a clear delineation of
costs for project implementation support makes it very difficult to compare component costs at SAR with
those at ICR. As set out in Annex 2, based on a number of assumptions, the best conclusion that the ICR
mission can make is that there has been an under-expenditure on the Marketing and Infrastructure
component and a larger than expected expenditure on Project Implementation Support. However, given
that project implementation expenditures were substantially funding the establishment and running of the
drought management system, this is expected.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project as designed established a drought management system which relies on government, donor and
community contribution and synergy. As this system is well understood and established, institutional
sustainability is likely. However, financial sustainability of the arid lands population is not assured as
these areas by their nature are vulnerable, food insecure and prone to drought. Sustainability at the end of
the project therefore rests very heavily on public sector financial assistance under the second project phase.
At the end of the second phase, budget subventions should be agreed and programmed for the running costs
of the drought management system. Simply put, the government and other stakeholders have recognized
the benefits of the drought management system as a good investment in managing the risks of the ALs
populations, and are committed to its sustainability.

Donor support is likely to be needed and is expected in the medium term for drought contingency and
response. The integrity of the drought management system has made this funding more attractive to
external donors, as the system makes delivery of the benefits more reliable, timely and targeted. Where
feasible the second phase should try to maximize the self sufficiency of communities and introduce higher


                                                     - 12 -

contributions and cost recovery, rather than a heavy grant arrangement in order to reduce GOK burden to
acceptable proportions and widen the number of beneficiaries the project may be able to reach. For most
activities, however, it is not realistic to expect communities to be able to repay the costs involved. Even to
finance operation and maintenance costs would be beyond the communities abilities for a range of
components ­ including dispensaries and primary schools, and government and donors will continue to be
involved in these poorest regions of Kenya.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The second phase is designed to institutionalize the funding and operations of the drought management and
community development components of the ALRMP. The project modalities and mechanisms are intended
to be fully integrated with the institutional structures at district and national levels. As the formal
devolution of authority to districts takes place, through the expected revision of Kenya's constitution,
ALRMP structures will be merged with local government structures as they evolve. At the national level,
drought management is expected to remain in the Office of the President, and will be fully institutionalized
by year three of the second phase. An appropriate covenant has been introduced into the legal agreements
of the second phase.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Project preparation was based on a careful review of earlier related projects and incorporated lessons
learned from these. The design was for a project participative, demand driven and with a considerable
degree of flexibility. The main faults in the project design were in not providing a sufficiently clear and
detailed design for monitoring and evaluation. Apart from this issue project design is rated as satisfactory.
WB lending performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

Project supervision was well handled by IDA through regular missions consisting of appropriately
constituted teams with the necessary specializations. IDA's role was generally sensitive and supportive,
including the agreement to extend the credit closing date by a year and nine months, which has enabled the
project implementation to be brought to a successful conclusion. The Mid Term Review in 1999 was
effective and made recommendations mainly calling for an expanded involvement of communities in
decision making, emphasizing the need for implementing the M&E system, advocating the establishment of
contingency funds for immediate drought mitigation measures and, providing indications for improving
livestock trade and for sustainable natural resource management. The prolonged drought during
1999-2001 impeded the comprehensive achievement of the MTR envisaged results. Despite this, tighter
control by IDA of follow-up actions to the MTR could have enforced a broader adoption of the MTR
recommendations.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall performance of the Bank, based on the above review is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                      - 13 -

GOK was fully involved in project preparation and was generally effective in providing the necessary
policy and legal basis for the project's interventions. Their performance was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Despite the difficult financial situation of the GOK during project implementation, counterpart funding was
consistently available. Delays were caused by the late release of funds in the early months of each
financial year, which was damaging for operations that were season specific. District funding limits
impeded implementation during the early years, but this system was overhauled and project implementation
pace increased after these positive changes were made by the Ministry of Finance. Their performance was
satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The Project Coordination Unit at national and district level was able to recruit good quality staff. The
coordination function has performed very well. Despite some initial problems due to deficiencies in the
financial and procurement systems at district level, implementation performance has been very good. Most
importantly the project has been able to become a very useful focal point of collaboration for other donors
and has enabled a well coordinated approach to be made to drought management and relief in the ALs of
northern and eastern Kenya. Implementing agency performance is therefore rated as highly satisfactory.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Based on the above review the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Based on its review of the implementation experience the list of lessons learned as a result of the project are
listed below.

l Risks can be managed and the livelihoods of vulnerable, populations living in drought prone areas can
     be improved at an acceptable cost, through an effective drought management system. The system's key
     features are a decentralized planning, decision making, financing and implementation system at district
     level, supported by a responsive and well coordinated national body.

l The strengthening of district level multi-sectoral institutions can significantly improve the effectiveness
     of project interventions on the ground. On its own this option facilitates the implementation of devolved
     procedures and prepares the way for open accountability and the empowerment of benefiting
     communities, allowing larger issues such as conflict resolution to be addressed   29/




l Capacity building is an important investment and should include all key project actors and be carried
     out on a continuous basis. This would also provide a means for a sustained consultation process with
     the communities and would build-up capacity in a more equitable manner of a broader spectrum of
     participants thus increasing participation, ownership and sustainability.

l Broader access to social services in the ALs can only be achieved by strengthening communities and
     supporting actors to provide appropriate and cost-effective facilities. Public support should continue to
     grant basic social services (health, education, water distribution and infrastructure development) while
     income generating investments should carry a gradually increasing beneficiary contribution in order to



                                                     - 14 -

    increase the share of project resources and overall sustainability.

l Targeting women pays. Project support of women's income generating activity groups should continue
    and be further expanded whereas it has proved to be a profitable diversification investment (with
    benefits well beyond those immediately quantifiable) These investments are capable of triggering real
    income increases of the direct beneficiaries and a cascading livelihood improvement of the related
    community.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Project Design
On the overall the project design was satisfactory save livestock marketing. The design of the
livestock-marketing component concentrated on the supply side and the demand side was given less
attention. Although the stock routes were rehabilitated, market related infrastructures improved and user
related initiatives in livestock marketing developed; this did not necessarily lead to the envisaged result of
linking the Arid Lands to the rest of the Kenyan economy. It was also difficult to give credit support to
livestock traders since the component was to be implemented through use of civil works item. The project
at the district level had no livestock marketing staff and at the national level it had no Coordinator of its
own. This means this component was given less emphasis than the others from the beginning and this
significantly affected the result of the component. Under the drought component only 3 emergency cereal
reserves were constructed. Most districts felt the grain stores were not necessary as the storage was well
taken care of by the National Cereal & Produce Board (NCPB) stores. The whole area of Monitoring,
Evaluation and Reporting needs to be looked into. This was an area of concern in all the missions. The
project could benefit from a Monitoring and Evaluation consultant.

Project Organization
The National organization and management of the project changed considerably during the course of
implementation. The project was moved to the Provincial Administration and Internal Security docket. At
the national level the project was to establish a Drought Management Secretariat (DMS) under the
department of Relief and Rehabilitation in the Office of the President. The national Support Unit instead
performed the role of this secretariat and carried out Government policy and operational responsibilities for
drought management. The Arid lands headquarters is the Drought Management Center (DMC). ALRMP
Prepares and submits drought assessment reports to the Kenya Food Security Committee (KFSM) and after
obtaining its approval, advise the government to declare drought in the affected area. After formal
declaration of drought by the government, various related ministries of the government, the DSG with the
support of donors undertake appropriate drought mitigation and recovery activities, which are in the
contingency plans. The drought management coordinator was never recruited at all but several Drought
Management Officers were posted from various departments. The community development coordinator was
recruited in end of 1997. The District Support Staff varied from district to district. For example Mandera
and Garissa have 2 clerks while the other districts have one each. Turkana and Wajir have District Project
Coordinators while Drought Management Officers managed the other districts. The number of districts to
be covered in Phase II is 22. This therefore calls for beefing up of the national office for proper
implementation supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the project.




                                                     - 15 -

GOK Performance
The conclusion of the GOK ICR is that the project has generally achieved its objective of building the
capacity of communities to better cope with drought. This is satisfactory to the Government of Kenya and
the arid lands community. The AL community now feels less isolated and have an alternative voice to
articulate their needs.

Bank Performance
GoK is satisfied with the performance of the Bank. The relationship between the World Bank and the
ALRMP is excellent. This is due to the continuity of the staff from the Bank who have the correct attitude
to help the people of the arid lands. In particular the Task manager has established a good rapport with the
arid lands community. The project was well supervised by the World Bank team and National Support
Unit. The Mission teams especially the Mid-Term Review team that had the late Dr. Pratt, Jeremy swift
and Jeffery Lewis gave very valuable advise on Natural Resource and Drought Management. Aide
Memoires were very useful in re-directing and giving a new thinking to the project. The visit by the World
Bank Kenya Country representative was also very encouraging. However unlike EDRP the Project
Steering Committee (PSC) became less active. EDRP was sector based and every head was pursuing
activities under their sector. ALRMP became community based and decision making shifted to the districts.
This arrangement became less attractive to some of the line ministries and gradually reduced their
participation.

Sustainability
Contrary to the Bank ICR perception, a certain degree of sustainability exists in areas where PRA was
carried out Micro-projects implemented and supported by relevant trainings. In the areas of support to
women groups, restocking, shelter, springs protection, shallow wells sustainability is certain. Although
dispensaries, schools, boreholes, water pans require large capital to construct, it's far more cheaper to
maintain them. Water Pans like that of Tarbaj and Wargadud are well maintained. The boreholes of Elwak
and Liboi have more than Kshs.500, 000 in their respective accounts. However, we do agree in certain
cases and more so where the skills do not exist within the community or in communities where the
leadership is poor sustainability is uncertain. More attention needs to be paid to the whole area of revenue
collection by the boreholes management. Provision of solar energy is a fairly new concept and needs time
before communities appreciate the potential and learnt maintenance skills. The health facility committees
are also new and will require sometime before they acquire health personnel and countersign for their drugs
consignments. Several committees have reached this stage and the future looks promising. We concur with
the idea of discouraging grants and will try as much as possible to establish revolving funds. We shall also
encourage line ministries to take full responsibility for some of the operations. In some districts the District
Water Officer manages the Water Bowsers. The Ministry of Education and Health will also benefit from
the attention given to their departments by the new government. Where sustainability is uncertain it's not
conclusive to blame it on the anticipation of the second phase as was indicated in the Banks ICR. Pastoral
development programs require a longer period of time in order to achieve a satisfactory degree of
sustainability. Sustainability is linked to capacity building and training of the communities. In order to
improve on this area we strongly recommend a training officer who will work closely with the Community
Development Officer in the districts.




                                                      - 16 -

Financial Management
The project has sound financial management. Introduction of separate account in the local commercial
banks and use of cheques that accompany the AIEs has greatly improved the flow of funds. The project has
had no qualified audit so far despite being subjected to multiple audits every year. The project will delegate
procurements to "communities who have demonstrated management and accounting capacity" .We shall
pursue this further with the districts and treasury to regularize the community partnership and mainstream
it in the GOK procurement process. During the preparation of the current project the GOK contribution
was under stated thereby making actual expenditure to be higher than planned in appraisal. The increase
was largely due to VAT (18%), which had to be met by the GOK and fluctuations of the exchange rates. It
is therefore important to take this into consideration in the second phase.

Lessons Learnt
1.       Location of ALRMP in the Office of President has given the project a leverage to perform better
due to the elevated position of the office that gives it the ability to mobilize government, NGOs and
Communities.
2.       The EWS has systematically and technically allowed the districts to declare drought emergencies a
function that was initially the preserve of uninformed officials in Nairobi and politicians. The trust the
project built allowed a quick response to drought interventions by the donor.
3.       Contingency planning made an appropriate response possible and the coordination of the DSG,
KFSM has made response to drought smooth
4.       The decentralized implementation of the project using committed and qualified staff was the central
pillar for the success of the project. The introduction of PRA, use of Mobile extension teams and the
delivery of promises made in the work plan have reversed the lack of trust of the GOK by the AL
communities.
5.       Flexibility of the project to respond to other disasters such as Conflict, disease outbreaks etc has
reduced the human and livestock toll previously experienced in Arid Land (AL) districts.
6.       In order to attack poverty we need to establish micro-finance systems in AL districts based on
revolving funds. We have no experience in this area and hence we need to partner with micro-finance
institutions and examine a number of workable models and apply.
7.       Few districts contracted few partners. Authority to contract Partners was obtained in 2000. More
partners need to be engaged and officers in-charge of stations have to make more efforts to delegate
procurement to the community come the next phase.
8.       Sufficient emphasis needs to be support of district/natural resource centers with relevant library
books.
9.       The requests for more boreholes need to be subjected to an Environmental Impact Assessment
before approval.
10.      It is important to commission a technical study of how it will cost to tarmacing the critical and
priority roads of Garissa-Mandera and Isiolo-Moyale
11.      Crucial studies on the degradation of the natural resource base needs to be carried out. The studies
are to include: (a) Operationalising the grazing reserves, (b) Acceptable radius between one borehole and
another and (c) Ways to involve the private sector in the establishment of slaughter houses at Isiolo,
Garissa and Marigat.
12.      Improve staffing and human resource development at both Project level and at participating line
department level.
13.      It is very urgent to mainstream issues related to HIV/AIDS, natural resource management and
gender.
14.      It will be more cost effective if all districts do their annual planning workshops at the district level
and the staff from headquarters attend the DSGs planning workshops to give technical backstopping to add
value to the planned activities. This will help to mainstream NRM, HIV, and Aids issues and ensure the


                                                        - 17 -

vulnerable are covered.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

NOTES on the ICR TEXT

1/            At appraisal ALRMP included only the cited 9 districts. Two new districts have since been
added - Moyale (previously part of Marsabit) and Ijara (previously part of Garissa), to bring the total to 11
districts.

2/            Government Action Plan dated September 2002

3/            Presently in draft dated March 2002. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) document was
drafted in 1999, but never agreed with GOK nor published.

4/            The project was not subject to a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review.

5/            With the exception of the community development component micro-projects which had a
matching 30% contribution from the beneficiaries.

6/            The drought cycle foresees the following stages: Normal, Alert/Alarm, Emergency, Recovery.

7/            The EWS in northern Kenya started in 1988 in Turkana. Following extended droughts, the
system expanded to other Arid Land districts under the DMP and DPIRP which ran in parallel with EDRP
funded by the World Bank.

8/            In order to have maximum advantage of the massive information wealth collected by the
project since 1996 in the districts and widely available as raw data and as first-level analyses elaboration, a
professional data analysis exercise should be carried out and a workable data management system set up
(for sustained use, a data manager should be posted). This would also provide useful baseline information
for future monitoring purposes.

9/            For long-term sustainability, a more streamlined EWS should be tested during the last 12 to
18 months of an externally-funded implementation phase. This should include only essential monitoring
parameters and the minimum number of sample areas, particularly where environmental and socioeconomic
homogeneity allows sample intensity reduction.

10/           The effort made by the project under conflict resolution activities is certainly higher and the
real cost may have been absorbed under the Contingency Funds and the overall coordination expenditures.

11/           As a further result, the UN-World Food Programme has considered as successfully completed
the emergency operations (EMOP) in 2002 and has commenced a new disaster preparedness program. The
program, which will be funded through a Food for Work operation and based on priorities set by the DSGs,




                                                    - 18 -

would address mainly water harvesting and road improvement interventions.

12/           In Baringo district, the DSG sought the funding for two new boreholes that had not been
included within the AWP for fiscal year 2002-2003. The contingency funds made available through the
ALRMP have enabled drilling operations while funds required for casing and equipping of the boreholes
were supposed to be matched by the Water Department. Unfortunately, to date the complementing funds
have not been secured and the intervention has not been completed.

13/           In the past, the two major players in pastoral areas livestock marketing were the parastatal
Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) and the Livestock Marketing Division (LMD) of MOALDM which
promoted the meat industry and acted as a safety-valve means to de-stock pastoral rangelands particularly,
during droughts. These institutions stopped operations in the late 1980s as a consequence of the adoption of
structural adjustment policies.

14/            Since these have been based on district priorities it is not clear whether there has been the
necessary coordination to ensure that stockroutes which cross two or more districts have been improved
along their entire length.

15/           Collated data or district disaggregated data was not available at NPSU level. Due to existing
problems with the database it appears that an understanding of the effective animal off-take situation would
only be possible by analyzing the historical series of the monthly data analysis sheets of each district.
However, the data collected at one district (Wajir) by the ICR team did not confirm the trend envisaged by
the average figure provided at national level.

16/           Devastating El Niño floods occurred in 1996.

17/           The interventions described in this section are relevant to community development and as such
are itemized in the SAR but actually may have been in part or in toto realized in the context of other
components and activities of the project.

18/           Including the participation of Kenya Veterinary Board and Kenya Veterinary Association.

19/           Reported by the National Project Support Unit (NPSU) and based on the information provided
by the Veterinary Department at district levels. All percentage changes are referred as compared to average
annual data officially reported.

20/           Data are not differentiated for rainfed and irrigated crops, the latter though being indeed more
important in the ALs. Maize yield increased from 0.36t/ha in 1996 to 0.87t/ha in 2001, beans from 0.21
t/ha to 0.55 t/ha over the same period.

21/           Comparison of 1996 and 2001 cropped area and production data for maize, sorghum and bean
crops in Moyale, Marsabit, Isiolo, Tana River, Garissa, Ijara and Wajir. The Central Bureau of Statistics
and the MoARD do not systematically collect information on cropped area and crop production. All
available data is based on estimates produced by the district departmental staff and frontline extension
workers.

22/           Provincial and district distribution of agricultural land of Kenya in three categories is provided
in Economic Statistical Abstracts, 2001. Ministry of Finance and Planning (sourced from Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Lands, Settlement and Physical Planning). However, this potential is referred


                                                      - 19 -

to only in terms of rainfed area (as agricultural land with annual rainfall above 600 mm) and not in terms
of irrigable land.

23/           Given the limited potential for agricultural development in terms of crop production in the
ALs, diversification opportunities need to be sought over a wider spectrum of possibilities. The sustainable
exploitation of wild products such as gums, resins and honey should be further investigated.

24/           M/s Research and Training Consultants, Nairobi 1998.

25/           M/s Tech-link, Nairobi 2000.

26/           Advisory Development Consultants Limited, Nairobi, 2002

27/           Compound sizes, number of huts per compound, type of dwellings and roofs, population per
compound, number of compound members attending school and having wage labour, distance from
schools, frequency of common human and animal diseases.

28/           However, the new regulation did not have a corresponding follow-up in terms of a substantial
flow of funds to these organizations because of : i) the different and anticipated timing of the preparation of
the Annual Work Plan (AWP) for FY 2001/2002; ii) the time required for the selection of qualified NGOs;
and iii) the budget limitations during the final stages of the project. The project has established a `Manual
on implementation of community ­ based micro-projects', which foresees the use of partner agencies or
community based organizations. The manual was approved by the Ministry of Finance on 18 February
2002.

29/           ALRMP has helped resolution of resource use-centred conflicts among tribes and clans in
different AL districts. This facilitating role mainly through the provision of logistical support, should be
encouraged while maintaining at all times project's total neutrality vis-à-vis the particular issues of conflict.




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Drought monitoring and managment                                                 During the severe 1999-2001 drought, the
system resulting in better targeted and earlier                                     project shortened the response time,
interventions in arid districts, which will result                                  promoted effective government-donor
in reduction in need for food aid and                                               coordination and created a community-based
economic losses due to drought.                                                     targeting system, allowing vulnerable groups
                                                                                    improved access to food supplies. (WFP
                                                                                    Assessment)
2. Community-driven marketing initiatives                                           Over 1200 micro-projects have been
result in better integration in national                                            implemented benefiting some 180,000 people
economy, increasing animal offtake in                                               and addressing several sectoral needs
particular and in incomes for arid lands                                            identified by the communities.
populations in general.

3. Community microprojects result in capacity                                       Over 1000 micro-projects have been
building of arid lands communities and                                              implemented benefiting some 180,000 people
sustainable investments which will increase                                         and addressing several sectoral needs
incomes and decrease incidences of                                                  identified by the communities.
common diseases and child mortality.

4. Natural Resource base of the arid lands                                          In the absence of a general land use planning
conserved through the maintenance and                                               and pro-pastoralists land tenure policy
strengthening of traditional pastoral systems                                       encompassing creation of permanent grazing
of land and water use.                                                              reserves for use during drought, the option
                                                                                    adopted by the project has proved effective.


Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of monthly drought reports                 822                               822
Drought Contingency funds available               available                         84.5 million shillings available
district cereal reserves                          0                                 0 (see text)
district drought contingency plans                10                                11
drought grazing reserves                          10                                24
holding grounds/stock routes
 - number identified and planned                  48                                62
 - number implemented                             48                                53
community animal health workers trained and 1000                                    1756
operational
new water supply units operational                100                               779
traditional birth attendants trained and          1800                              1269
operational
community health workers trained and              700                               750
operational
staff participating in initial training           2300                              2900
Community Microprojects                                                             1200
Increase in percentage of vaccination             5%                                11%
coverage
Percentage decrease in cattle and goat            5%                                15%
pneumonia
Increase in off-take of animals                   0.5%                              7%
Number of demonstration plots                     9,000                             9,000
Percentage increase in yields of major crops 3% pa                                  5%
Percentage decline in common diseases             3% pa                             4%
Percentage decline in child mortality rate        5% pa                             5% to 7% pa




                                                                 - 21 -

1End of project




                   - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million    US$ million
Drought Management                                             10.90           9.20          0.84
Marketing and Infrastructure                                    3.40           1.80          0.52
Community Development Management                                5.90           6.20          1.05
Project Implementation Support                                  4.90           7.10          1.44

Total Baseline Cost                                            25.10         24.30
                        Total Project Costs                    25.10         24.30
                  Total Financing Required                     25.10         24.30


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                  2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                          0.00              5.10           0.50         0.00        5.60
                                  (0.00)           (4.60)         (0.40)        (0.00)     (5.00)
2. Goods                          2.50              1.20           0.20         0.00        3.90
                                  (2.50)           (1.20)         (0.20)        (0.00)     (3.90)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00           2.40         0.00        2.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.40)        (0.00)     (2.40)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00           3.70         0.00        3.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)         (2.60)        (0.00)     (2.60)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00           9.50         0.00        9.50
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)         (8.10)        (0.00)     (8.10)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00           0.00         0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                          2.50              6.30          16.30         0.00       25.10
                                  (2.50)           (5.80)         (13.70)       (0.00)    (22.00)
Category 4. Community Development; Category 5. Incremental Operating Costs
Note: Columns and rows may not cross add due to rounding errors.




                                                - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00              3.50             0.00              3.50
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.20)            (0.00)           (3.20)
   2. Goods                                1.10               0.30              1.80             0.00              3.20
                                          (1.00)             (0.30)            (1.60)            (0.00)           (2.90)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              2.20             0.00              2.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.20)            (0.00)           (2.20)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              3.20             0.00              3.20
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.20)            (0.00)           (2.20)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             11.00             0.00             11.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.80)            (0.00)           (7.80)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.10)            (0.00)           (1.10)
       Total                               1.10               0.30             22.80             0.00             24.20
                                          (1.00)             (0.30)           (18.10)            (0.00)           (19.40)
   Category 4. Community Development, Category 5. Incremental Operating Costs, Category 6. Rapid
   Response Fund and PPF.
   Note Estimates of total expected expenditure at 6/30/2003. Columns and rows may not cross add due to
   rounding errors.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Drought Management             9.90         1.00                     7.70         1.40                  77.8     140.0
Marketing and                  3.10         0.30                     1.70         0.10                  54.8      33.3
Infrastructure
Community Development          4.80         1.10                     5.30         1.00                  110.4     90.9
Project Implementation         4.20         0.70                     4.70         2.40                  111.9    342.9

   Note: 1. Appraisal Estimate: All GOK contributions exclude taxes. GOK contributions for Community
   Development Component at appraisal includes beneficiary contribution of US$ 1.1 million.
   2. Actual/Latest Estimate: GOK contribution includes estimated US$ 0.6 million tax element. GOK
   contributions for Community Development Component include the estimated beneficiary contribution of
   US$ 1.0 million.




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Basis for the Economic Analysis

There are a number of difficulties making a satisfactory economic re-analysis of the project. These include
the following:

         1. The project achieved a range of social benefits including community empowerment, capacity
         building, increased access to schools and improved health ­ all of which are difficult to quantify.

         2. The level of production incomes and hence project benefits is determined by the severity of
         drought events and overall economic result depends heavily on the timing of such benefits in
         relation to the cost stream.

         3. The baseline study provided general information on infrastructure, resources and some social
         indicators, but lacked detailed information on production levels or incomes. Subsequent beneficiary
         assessment studies looked mainly at qualitative measures and impact on community development ­
         such as group formation, but provided no family income information.

         4. The SAR did not attempt to measure the benefits from reducing the risk and vulnerability of the
         arid lands populations - which by the end of the project were substantial.

Method and Results.

If the actual costs of the project, the actual livestock prices, and the actual sequence of droughts and the
related livestock mortality rates are used for the re-calculation of the EIRR, while maintaining the other
assumptions made in the SAR (such as the 25% reduction in livestock mortality and the 10-20% increase in
livestock off-take) the EIRR would vary between 20% and 23% (depending on the livestock price
assumptions). This rate is above the SAR estimate of 17%, because of project costs materialising later than
expected and higher savings from reduced mortality due to the 1999-2001 drought compared to the
expectations. These positive conditions compensate the negative effects resulting from lower than expected
livestock prices.

The SAR had considered a 100% population coverage rate for the purpose of the economic analysis.
According to the better estimates, the actual coverage is likely to have been around 40% of the total
population, based on the number of beneficiaries (800,000 people) addressed by the major investment made
by the project, i.e. the water interventions. Should this rate be used as well as an updated estimation of the
livestock population, the EIRR would reach 10-12% depending on the price assumptions. This is
considered to be the base case. If the coverage rate is increased to approximately 55%, the SAR EIRR
estimate would be met. Community development benefits have been calculated in the same manner as in the
SAR and are comparable.




                                                       - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              6/1994


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/27/1994                8    TASK MANAGER (1),
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1), ANTHROPOLOGIST
                                             (1), FM SPECIALIST (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1), LAWYER
                                             (1), CREDIT SPECIALIST
                                             (1), DROUGHT MGMT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

              04/19/1997                4    TASK MANAGER;                         S               S
                                             LIVESTOCK ADVISER;
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST; RANGE
                                             MGMT. SPECIALIST
              08/07/1998                4    TEAM LEADER; LIVESTOCK                S               S
                                             ADVISER ; RANGE MGMT.
                                             SPECIALIST; RURAL DEV.
                                             SPECIALIST
              10/23/1999                7    TASK TEAM LEADER , Social             S               S
                                             Dev. Specialist, Procurement
                                             Specialist , Financial Mgmt.
                                             Specialist , NRM Specialist ,
                                             M&E Specialist, Livestock
                                             Adviser
              05/08/2000                1    Task Team Leader                      S               S
              12/18/2000                1    TASK TEAM LEADER                      S               S
              02/12/2001                3    Livestock Adviser , Social Dev.       S               S
                                             Specialist , M&E Specialist
              09/20/2001                4    Task Team Leader, Operations          S               S
                                             Officer, Social Dev. Specialist,
                                             Financial Mgmt Specialist

 ICR
              01/15/2003                4     Ag Economist (2), Livestock          S               S
                                              Specialist (1), Financial
                                              Analyst (1)
              09/20/2002                2     TTL (1); AGRIC. ECONOMIST            S               S
                                              (1)




                                              - 26 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                40.6                         124.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    109.8                         270.8
  Supervision                               83.6                         509.3
  ICR                                       15.0                           50.0
  Total                                    249.0                         954.8
ICR Cost includes FAO/CP resources.




                                                - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Social, other: Capacity Building




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   EIA on ALRMP, AITEC Consultants, May 1994
2.   Appraisal Mission BTO, August 1994
3.   Staff Appraisal Report, WB, November 1995
4.   Project Implementation Plan, June 1996
5.   Development Credit Agreement (DCA), February 1996
6.   ICR Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Cr. 2460-KE), WB-FAO, March 1998
7.   Mid-Term Review (Aide-Memoire + Annex 1: Drought Management; Annex 2: Natural Resource
     Management; Annex 3: Marketing and Infrastructure; Annex 4: Monitoring and Evaluation; Annex 5:
     Community Development Component) WB, November 1999
8.   Audit documents 1997/98/99/01/02
9.   Beneficiary Assessment Study, Main Report cum Annexes (Baringo -Turkana ­Wajir), 2002
10.  National Policy on Disaster Management, GOK, June 2002
11.  Poverty in Kenya (popular version), MoF, 2000
12.  Population Census Atlas, GOK, 1989
13.  Pastoral Thematic Group Report for PRSP, 2002
14.  District PRSPs (Baringo, Isiolo, Mandera, Marsabit, Moyale, Tana River, Turkana)
15.  Study on Land Tenure and Resource Management in Kenya, RTC, February 1999
16.  Land Use and Environmental Management in Kenya, Kenya Land Alliance (Collins Odote Oloo), August
     2001
17.  Consultancy Report on the Land Commission, Northern Legal Resource Centre, December 2001
18.  Range Management Handbook of Kenya, MOARD and GTZ, 1994
19.  A Range Management Perspective, WB Supervision Mission (DJ Pratt), February 1996
20.  Livestock Marketing and Health Component Mission Report (de Hann), April 1997
21.  Livestock Marketing and Health Component Mission Report (de Hann), October 1997
22.  Progress in Development Planning and in ensuring Sustainable NRM, DJ Pratt, June 1998
23.  Marketing of Livestock and Livestock Products Fact Finding Mission to Sudan Report, ALRMP
24.  An Audit of the Livestock Marketing Status in Kenya, Ethiopia and Sudan, CAHPEU-PACE, April 2002
25.  Livestock Marketing Fact Finding Mission to Egypt Report, ALRMP 2002
26.  Livestock Marketing, A Strategy for Pastoral Development
27.  Final Consultancy Report on the Livestock Health Quarantine Measure Study, African Technology
     Development Link, 2001
28.  Report on Livestock Marketing Workshop, ALRMP May 1999
29.  National Livestock Development Project, FAO-ADB, November 1999
30.  Standard Guidelines for Training CAHW, ALRMP May 2000
31.  Departmental Management Team review on IEPS, November 1993
32.  Animal Production Annual Report (abstract) MALDM, 1995
33.  Livestock Production Annual Reports (MOARD) 1996,97,98, 99, 01
34.  Draft Progress Report July 1996-June 2002, ALRMP, November 2002
35.  Stakeholder Workshop, ALRMP, September 2002
36.  National and District Retreat in Lake Bagoria, ALRMP, July 2002
37.  Stakeholder Review and Analysis of Issues ­ Drought Monitoring and Management Partnership, Michael
     Halderman (Dutch consultant), January 2000
38.  Mid-Term Review of EMOP Structures in Kenya, KFSM, June 2001
39.  Impact Assessment Report of the Emergency Interventions to Support Livestock during the 1999-2001
     Drought in Kenya, KFSSG-FAO, July 2001
40.  District Development Plan 1995-2001 (10 districts), OP and Ministry of Planning
41.  Manual on Implementation of Community Based Micro-projects, ALRMP 1996
42.  Facilitating Community Development, Intermedia 1996
43.  Drought Monitoring in the Arid lands, Field Monitor's Handbook, ALRMP 1996
44.  Institutional Structure for Drought Management in Kenya, August 2000, Jeremy Swift
45.  Impact Assessment of Drought Emergency Response (draft), September 2001, Sarah Jones



                                                  - 30 -

46.      Sample Questionnaires ­ Drought Management/EWS, ALRMP
47.      National Peace and Development Workshop at Naivasha Proceedings, ALRMP 1999

District Documents
48.      Evaluation Reports (all 10 districts), ALRMP, January 2003
49.      Overview of Baringo District 96-99 ­ (baseline),ALRMP, October 1999
50.      Baseline Survey, ALRMP Garissa, 1999
51.      Turkana, Baringo and Samburu Baseline Overview, ALRMP, 1999
52.      Retrospective Baseline Survey Tana River District, ALRMP, June 1999,
53.      Baseline Survey Wajir District, June1999, ALRMP
54.      Baseline Survey Mandera District, June 1999, ALRMP
55.      Turkana District Revised Drought Contingency Plans, 99-00, DSG Turkana
56.      Drought Monitoring (EWS) Bulletin - Garissa District, January-December 2001, ALRMP-Garissa
57.      Drought Monitoring Summary Reports (all districts) Jan, March, December 2002 , ALRMP
58.      Impact Assessment Report, ALRMP Wajir, October 1999
59.      Impact Assessment, ALRMP Wajir, September 2001
60.      Wajir District Monitoring and Evaluation Report, ALRMP Wajir, August and December 2002
61.      Drought Rapid Assessment Report, ALRMP Wajir, 2000
62.      Annual Progress Report 2001-2002, ALRMP Garissa
63.      Summary of Impacts, ALRMP Garissa, 2002
64.      Community Development Projects, ALRMP Garissa, 2002
65.      Discrete Development Areas, ALRMP Garissa/Samburu, October 1999
66.      Project Progress Report, ALRMP Mandera, 2002-03
67.      Cumulative Progress Report from Inception to 2002, ALRMP Mandera
68.      Mandera District Strategic Drought Management Plan 1999-2002, ALRMP Mandera 1998
69.      Strategic Drought Management Planning Workshop for Mandera District, ALRMP Mandera 1998
70.      Annual Progress Report, ALRMP Isiolo, 2001-02
71.      An Outline Progress Report on the Implementation of ALRMP 19,96-1999, ALRMP 2000
72.      Progress Report ALRMP 2001-2002
73.      Community Development Progress Report, ALRMP Samburu, July-September 2001
74.      Progress Report, ALRMP Samburu, 1996-2002
75.      Training of Field Staff & Pastoralists on Camel Health, ALRMP Garissa
76.      Community Development Projects Impact Assessment Report from Inception, ALRMP Mandera,
         September 2001
77.      Mandera District Long Rains Assessment Report, 2002
78.      List of Micro-Projects Implemented, ALRMP Marsabit 2001
79.      Community Development Activities, ALRMP Moyale, September 2001

Review/Supervision Reports (Project Status Reports)
80.      Aide-Mémoire Supervision Mission, April 1997
81.      CDD Component Evaluation Mission Report, August 1998
82.      Aide-Mémoire Project Review, September 1998
83.      Review Mission Report (de Hann), WB February 2001
84.      Review Mission Aide-Mémoire, WB, September 2001
85.      PSA (Project Status Report) 18/4/96; 2/7/96; 25/6/97; 13/3/98; 23/6/98; 25/1/99; 30/11/99; 14/6/2000;
         13/12/2000; 13/6/2001;11/08/2001; 8/5/2002; 28/11/2002
86.      Aide Mémoire ALRMP Second Phase Identification Mission, WB-FAO, October 2002
87.      Aide-memoire ALRMP Second Phase Preparation Mission, WB-FAO December 2000




                                                      - 31 -

Additional Annex 8.




                       - 32 -

- 33 -

