Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21559
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-20950)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 37.0 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FORA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
(PROJECT ID: P002784)
December 28, 2000
TRANSPORT
AFRICA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 08/25/2000)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shilling
Tsh 1.0 = US$ 0.0012507817
US$ 1.0 = Tsh 799.50
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA         Automated System for Customs Data
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DANIDA           Danish International Development Agency
DCA             Development Credit Agreement
DSM             Dar Es Salaam
EIB             European Investment Bank
FINIDA           Finnish Intemational Development Agency
Govt.           Govemment
HF              High Frequency
ICB             Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             Intemational Development Agency
IMO              International Maritime Office
KOJ             Kurasini Oil Jetty
MARPOL          Marine Pollution (Intemat. Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships)
MIS             Management Information System
MTR             Mid-term Review
N.B.F.          Non Bank Financed
NCB              National Competitive Bidding
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PSRC            Parastatal Sector Reformn Commission
RTG              Rubber Tyred Gantry
QAG             Quality Assurance Group
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SBM             Single Buoy Mooring
SIDA            Svvedish Intemational Development Agency
SSG             Ship- to-Shore Gantry
TA              Technical Assistance
TDW             Tonnage Dead Weight
TEU             Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit (container)
THA             Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRA             Tanzania Revenue Authority
TRC             Tanzania Railways Corporation
TZR             Tanzania Zambia Railways
US$             United States Dollar
VDS             Vessel Delay Surcharge
VHF             Very High Frequency
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo, AFRVP
Country Manager/Director:   James W. Adams, AFC04
Sector Manager/Director:   Yash Pal Kedia, AFITI
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Simon Thomas, AFTT1



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEIION REPORT
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT (CREDIT 2095-TA)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8 'lessons Leamed
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
A mex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perforinance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Original & Revised Project Components
Annex 9. Component - Objective Relationship
Anmex 10. Project Component Revisions
Annex 11. Financing Arrangements
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002784                                        Project Name: PORTS MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Simon Thomas                                  TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 14, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PORTS MODERNIZATION                             L/CITF NVumber: IDA-20950
Country/Department: TANZANIA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
,Sector/subsector: TP - Ports & Waterways; XX - Unidentified
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/4ctual
PCD:  03/31/1989                               Effective: 05/07/90             12/28/90
Appraisal:  07/07/1989                                 MTR:
Approval:  02/27/1990                                Closing: 06/30/97            06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVT/TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
Other Partners: NORAD, DANIDA, SIDA, EIB, NETHERLANDS, F1NNlDA.
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
V;ice President:      Callisto Madavo                            V. K. Jaycox
Country MIanager:     James W. Adams                             H. Messenger
Sector Manager:       Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                Isaac K. Sam
Team Leader at ICR:   Simon Thomas                               M. Konishi
ICR PrimaryAuthor:   Marios A Meletiou
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory,HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UJN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory,H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
This project was, de facto, a continuation of the Port Rehabilitation Project (PRP) Cr. 1536-TA which
became effective in mid-1985 and closed on December 31, 1992. The port of Dar es Salaam has 11 dry
cargo deepwater berths; PRP converted berths 9 - 11 into a container terminal with a limited container
stacking area, provided some handling equipment, constructed bulk grain storage facilities and started the
rehabilitation of the general cargo port. The level of port traffic fell substantially in the early 1980's, from
its peak in 1977, but this decline was then reversed and annual traffic growth averaged about 7 percent to
1988. More particularly, container traffic showed very rapid growth and this growth was expected to
continue. Total dry cargo was forecast to increase 60 percent by 1997 to 3.35 million tonnes, while loaded
container traffic was forecast to increase by over 200 percent to more than 150,000 TEU.The Mid-Term
Review of PRP (1988) concluded that, despite the iinprovements in performance and the additional port
capacity provided by the project, the port of Dar es Salaam (DSM) would experience severe capacity
constraints, by the mid- 1 990s, unless further improvements were made.
The majority of the port traffic was in transit to/from the landlocked countries of East and Central Africa.
In 1988, Tanzanian traffic accounted for 41 percent of total port traffic and Zambia 40 percent; the
remainder of the traffic was split between Zaire, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda and Malawi. Despite the level
of transit traffic, it had become recognized that DSM had failed to exploit fully its potential as a transit
port for the region and that additional traffic could be attracted by improved facilities and levels of service.
The main objectives of the Port Modemization Project (PMIP), as stated in the SAR, were, therefore:"to
expand the physical, managerial and operational capabilities of THA (Tanzania Harbours Authority)
to meet the traffic volume expected in the 1990's and to provide a more reliable and cost effective link
with the neighboring landlocked countries".
The Project objectives were clear and appeared rea'istic. The objectives reflected the Tanzanian
Government's "Programme for Transport Sector Recovery", which called for institutional changes and
rehabilitation of the transport sector in order to re-establish transport infrastructure and operations to serve
the economy. The Program for Recovery was fully endorsed by the Transport Sector Donors' Conference
which was held in December 1987. The Donors agreed to provide major support in the road sector (the
Integrated Roads Project), the railway sector (Railway Restructuring Project) and the port sector (Port
Modemization Project). The port project would substantially benefit the economy through lower port and
shipping costs, more efficient port services and increased foreign exchange earnings.
One of the six major objectives of the World Bank's 1990 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was to"
reduce sectoral and physical constraints". The CAS has been updated several times, since 1990, but has
continued to maintain the emphasis on the development and rehabilitation of the transport sector, often
citing specifically the port sub-sector. The Project objectives were fully consistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy.
Overall, the project was highly responsive to borrower circumstances and development priorities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
In 1994, The Government of Tanzania (GOT) established the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA ), and the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended, in 1995, to include the sentence: "In addition, the
customs and transit control activities of the Tanzania Revenue Authority will be strengthened and
streamlined." This also reflected the "Programme for Transport Sector Recovery", which stated: "To
promote regional integration, customs procedures and transit arrangements should be simplified to improve
the ease with which transit cargo can pass through Tanzania". As a result of the amendment, support for
- 2 -



the customs and transit control was substantially increased.
In 1996, the GOT made a fundamental change in its strategy toward the major parastatals and commenced
its policy of privatization. The DCA was further amended (1997) to include the concessioning of the
container terminal. The Presidential Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) was made the
implementing agency for this Project component. The concessioning of the container terminal was also
made a condition of the Structural Adjustment Credit.
3.3 Original Components:
The table below presents the original project categories (inclusive of physical & price contingencies), as
presented in the SAR.
ORIGINAL PROJECT COMPONENT CATEGORIES
(Costs in US$ million)
MAIN COMPONENT CATEGORY                 COST ESTIMATE             IDA FINANCED
A. CIVIL WORKS                                     65.50                     17.50
B. EQUIPMENT                                       27.51                     8.60
C. DESIGN / SUPERVISION                             5.36                     2.30
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       23.97                     8.60
TOTAL                                              122.34                    37.00
3.4 Revised Conmponents:
Following the 1995 amendment to the DCA, the four original component categories of the project were
restructured to reflect the new activities and to delineate the "Port" and "Customs" components:
1.     Civil Works (Port)
2.     Equipment (Port)
3.     Consulting services/TA (Port)
4.     Consulting services/TA (Customs and PSRC)
5.     Equipment (Customs)
6.     Civil Works (Customs)
The first and fourth tables in Annex 2 detail costs and financing, on the basis of the revised main
component categories. During the project, 17 revisions were made to the original list of project activities.
Some major activities, such as the paving of the lighter wharf and rehabilitation of the Belgian wharf, were
deleted from the project, while the rehabilitation of customs and t-ansit buildings and the dredging and
straightening of the harbor entrance channel were added. Despite the changes, the final total project cost
was very close to the original cost estimate.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated "satisfactory":
The design of the project was supported by substantial preparatory work and incorporated the experience
of the previous port projects, particularly the PRP which was then under implementation. The design of the
project incorporated or, at least, attempted to incorporate:
(a) The careful assessment of investment needs (grain silos, constructed under a previous port project,
- 3 -



have rarely been used). The project components were subjected to rigorous analysis and many were then to
be further reviewed on the basis of the results of the comprehensive "Port Development Study" which
formed part of the project.
(b) The more effective use of technical assistance. It was thought that preparatorv work had identified and
addressed the factors underlying the relatively limited achievement of institutional objectives in previous
projects. The project tried to address the failings of previous TA through monitoring and guidance by THA
and by the appointment of counterpart staff.
(c) The focus on the problem of staff motivation. An incentive scheme for port workers had just been
introduced by TIA and TA was included specifically to develop further the scheme.
(d) The establishment of satisfactory implementation arrangements. The project was large and complex:
* Seven co-financiers involved (later increased to eight)
*  25 project components under four main categories
* Two implementing agencies (THA and the Customs Department), and a third (Presidential
Parastatal Sector Reform Commission) was added
THA, the primary implementing agency, had gained considerable implementation experience from the
previous projects and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was to be provided with TA and training. The
project design successfully integrated the efforts of the project co-financiersnd satisfactorily addressed
implementation including project management and coordination, monitoring and reporting, procurement
and accounting and auditing.
(e) The establishment of monitorable performance indicators. With the exception of the level of service to
inland transport, adequate performance indicators wvere establiskod.
(f) Adherence to the Bank's safeguard policies. The only safeguard policy relevant to this Project was "OP
4.01, Environmental Assessment". The project was assessed as "B category" because the originally
identified civil works did not pose any serious environmental concems. PRP environmental procedures
were to be applied in this project. The TOR for the Port Development Study included a detailed
environmental impact study, consistent with the World Bank Technical Paper "Environment Considerations
for Port and Harbor Development" (1989 edition), with special emphasis on any proposed dredging or
reclamation works. The Port Development Study also included an assessment of the facilities and
operating practices necessary to join the Intemational Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships
(MARPOL). Provision was made in the Project for fire fighting equipment and pollution control facilities.
(g) The realistic assessment of the Project risks. The Project risks were identified as: traffic growth; costs
and delays in implementation; and the actual achievement of operational improvements. When
privatization was included in the Project, management resistance was recognized as a potential risk.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome,'achievement of objective:
The Project was extended for a total of 3 years and was thus implemented over a 10 year period. The long
implementation period reflects the adjustments made to the scope and focus of the Project in order to
support the major changes in the Government's strategy toward economic liberalization and the parastatal
sector that took place during the 1990's. The Project achieved most of its original and revised objectives:
(a) The capacity of the port was expanded to meet the traffic demands of the 1990's and beyond.The total
dry cargo traffic handled at the port remains at around 2 million tonnes, but the present level of container
- 4 -



traffic (slightly more than 100,000 TEU) could not be handled without the investments made under the
Project. The dredging and straightening of the entrance channel now allows 24 hour port access,
considerably improving the operational effectiveness and competitive position of the port.
(b) The upgrading the Kurasini Oil Jetty (KOJ) to accommodate larger refined product tankers and increase
unloading productivity allowed the full liberalization of the Tanzanian petroleum sector in 2000 and the
withdrawal of subsidies from the Tiper refinery . The Project complemented the activities undertaken
under the Petroleum Rehabilitation Project Cr.2202-TA, and the macro-economic policy dialogue.
(c) The privatization of the container terminal of Dar es Salaanr introduced as an objective in 1997, was
achieved with the signing of a lease agreement in May, 2000. The private operator took over running the
container terminal in September 2000. This is the initial stage of fundamental change to the port sector in
Tanzania
(d) The improvement in port service performancexxas not fully achieved but considerable operational
improvements were made to the level of service to £Jhips. Berthing delays were eliminated, and container
handling rates have risen well above the Conference Lines' penalty floor of 200 moves/day.
However, in some areas the Project was rather less successful. In terms of the level of service to cargo, the
project did not yield the improvements anticipated. There was, for example, no sustained reduction in
container dwell time. The expansion in the management capacity of THAwas not substantial . There was
some computerization in THA but not the system-wide implementation expected; for example, a
computer-based MIS was not introduced. Technical assistance and training did not result in any marked or
sustained improvements in management or institutional effectiveness within THA (with the exception of the
PCU). The incentive scheme proved unsuccessful and was termiiniated in the early 1990's.
The Customs component provided equipment, communications and the rehabilitation of offices and
facilitated the introduction of ASYCUDA (computerized customs data entry system) which substantially
reduced customs' clearance processing times. But, 4uring the project period, the Government introduced
additional revenue control measures which offset the benefits in service times brought about by
streamlining existing procedures. Much of the customs component was, however, implemented at the very
end of the Project, and will support the new Tax Administration Project which is aimed specifically at
improving tho efficiency and effectiveness of the TRA, including Customs.
The very limited achievement of the Project's original institutional objectives must be viewed in the context
of the fundamental change in the institutional framework of the sector, with THA becoming a landlord
authority, which was supported by the Project. This change in overall strategy made the original
institutional objectives largely irrelevant.
Overall, the project outcome is considered satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall output of the project is consideredsatisfactory.
Civil Works: The overall output of this category wassatisfactory. Two of original components were not
implemented and one was financed under PRP. Civil works represented about 74% (US$93 million) of the
total project cost
Paving the container terminal, completion of Kurasini & Ubungo depots, and rehabilitation of the
Copper road were combined in a single contract, completed in 1994, about two years behind the SAR
schedule. The output of these two components (90,000n2 of concrete block and asphalt paving, 0.7 km of
road works, rail track works, offices, workshops, fencing, and canopies) increased container storage
capacity from 3,000 to 6255 TEU. and completed the improvement of the road connection between the port
- 5 -



and the inland terminals of Kurasini, ZAMCARGO and Malawi Cargo Center, which had been started
under PRP. However, the use of the inland facilities declined with the reduction in transit traffic and the
Ubungo depot was leased to the private sector. A subsequent contract repairedsome 15,000 m2 of damage
to the original container terminal pavement, which was damaged during the pavement extension
construction works.
Rehabilitation of the central workshop and rehabilitation of berths 1-8 were implemented as one
contract. About 160,000 ni2 were re-paved and services, sheds, offices, substations, switchboards and
power distribution networks rehabilitated. The crane power supply system was replaced and a new rail
layout introduced. The contract was completed satisfactorily in 1991, well within schedule.
Kurasini oil jetty strengthening increased the berthing capacity of the KOJ from 18,000 to 40,000 tonne
tankers. The improvements included two new berthing dolphins and two new mooring dolphins. The
componeiit was completed in 1994, about two years behind the SAR schedule. Kurasini oil jetty
rehabilitation & improvement increased pumping capacity to 750 tons/hour. constructed a new pipeline
from KOJ to the TIPER refinery and the Tazama tank farm, linked the coastal oil jetty into the system and
raised fire-fighting standards.
Entrance channel dredging and straightening was added on the recommendation of the Port Development
Study. The dredging was completed in 1998 but the installation of navigational aides was seriously
delayed and 24 hour navigation only became possible in 2000. There are now no access restrictions on
vessels up to 40,000 DWT and 225 m long.
Rehabilitation of customs buildings included customi s offices at DIA, the first two floors of Mapato House
and 15 border or transit stations. The quality of the rehabilitation work is consideredsatisfactory.
Goods and Equipment: Overall, the output of this category is consideredsatisfactory. The category
comprised 5 components, which represented about 17% (US$22 million) of the total project cost:
General cargo equipment: included the procurement of a number of vehicles, front loaders and fork lifts
THA office equipment: included a number of personal computers, printers, etc.
Central workshop equipment: generally satisfactory but one supplier failed to meet the after-sales service
obligations and the matter is still being handled by the Legal Departnent of THA.
Container terminal handling equipment: included one ship-to-shore gantry, two rubber-tired gantries, five
42 ton front loaders, five 12 ton forklifts, 15 port tractor/trailer units and 5 highway tractor/trailer units.
The equipment was delivered in 1996/1997. Corrective actions were needed for the trailers and the 12 ton
forklifts.
Equipment for Customs: comprised the supply and installation of computers, generators and radio
communication equipment. Most of the equipment was installed during the last few months of the project,
following the physical rehabilitation of the 15 border or transit stations.
Consulting Services: The overall output of this category wassatisfactory. The category represented
about 6% (US$7 million) of the total project cost:
Design/supervision of civil works: with the exception of the initial design for the rehabilitation and
improvement of KOJ, the quality of the design and construction supervision work wasgood.
Port Development Study: Completed in 1994, the Study resulted in several important changes to the Project
design and scope of activities.
-6 -



Commercialization Study: The conclusions of the Study were overtaken by the Government's decision to
privatize parastatal transport operations and its recommendations were never adopted. However, the
concept of separable business units within the port has been adopted as the basis of the privatization
approach.
Single Buoy Mooring (SBM) Study: Bidding documents were drafted for the replacement or relining of the
submarine pipeline from the SBM but they werenever finalized. Subsequently, IDA financed a short study
to evaluate the comparative costs of importing crude and refined oil through the SBM and KOJ. The report
is presently being evaluated.
Lighter Quay Study: The Study, completed in 1996, reviewed the existing and potential uses of the quay
but no action has yet been taken on its recommendations.
Technical Assistance to Customs: The only substantial assistance for Customs was the design and
supervision of the civil works which was generallysatisfactory.
Institutional Development: The category represented about 3% (US$4 million) of the total project cost:
Project Coordination Unit: The output of this component was satisfactory. Three TA experts were
attached to the PCU for the first four years and local professional staff were trained. After 1994, the PCU
was locally staffed and implemented this complex project effectively.
Technical Assistance to THA Management: This was implement-d by the attachment of TA experts, the
participation of THA management in seminars/courses, and study tours. 24 TA experts were attached to
various activities, including: statistics; central workshop; container terminal operations; manpower
development; incentive scheme; Bandari college; commercialization; and, general port operation issues.
The TA cost US$3.70 million but had little sustainmA impact. No TA experts were attached after 1995,
and the overall output of this component is consideredunsatisfactory.
Transaction 's Adviser for the concessioning of the container terminal: The assistance to PSRC was
highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of retturn:
Based on very conservative assumptions (detailed in Annex 3), the ex-post economic rate of return (ERR)
is estimated at 13.3% with a Net Present Value (10%) of US$20.8 million. Although the results are lower
than those estimated in the SAR (ERR of 20% with a NPV of US$42.7 million), they are considered
satisfactory, in view of the very substantial decline in the level of transit traffic, which was largely outside
the control of the THA (see para. 5.1). The ex-post economic analysis does not include any of the very
large future economic benefits which are expected from either the privatization of the container terminal
operations or the rest of the port activities.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The ex-post financial rate of return of the project to THA is estimated, on conservative assumptions, at
7.5% (SAR 14%). This can be considered as marginally satisfactory, given the substantially lower port
traffic levels. THA remains a profitable institution which generates a substantial operating surplus,
sufficient to meet its investment, tax and debt service obligations.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the targeted TA had a relatively negligible effect on institutional development within THA, the
project facilitated major structural reform in the institutional framework of the sector through the
privatization of port activities. This reform will change THA from a full service provider to a "landlord"
-7-



authority which will have a profound impact on the future development of the port sector and the quality of
port services.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implemenlting agencv:
The major exogenous factors that affected the implementation and outcome of the project were the
following:
Regional political developments: Transit traffic was critical for the forecast growth in port traffic.
Though the assumptions appeared reasonable at the time of appraisal, the geo-political situation in
Southern and Central Africa then undenvent massiA e structural change. The end of apartheid opened up the
South African ports to Zambian transit traffic; peace in Mozambique opened up additional routes for
Malawi transit traffic. and major civil strife in Zaire, Burundi. and Rwanda (ZBR) reduced their external
commercial trade flows, though generating some relief food aid. Dry cargo traffic in 1997 was only 55%
of the SAR forecast and in 1999 traffic was only marginally higher than in 1988. The reduction in traffic
was almost entirely the result of fall in transit traffic. which is niow less than half the level of the early
1990's. This fall in transit traffic significantly reduced the short-term economic and financial impact of the
project.
Behavior oJ cargo consignees: Many Tanzanian coisignees are prepared to store containers at the port for
long periods, either hoping for tax exemption or while trying to raise the funds for clearance, thus nullifying
the project's efforts to reduce container dwell times.
Performance of the Tanzania Railways Corporation (T'RQ): Transit containers to the ZBR countries and
Uganda are often subject to long dwell times in the port because of TRC's inability to transport the traffic
inland v ithin reasonable time.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major government controlled factors that affected the project were the following:
Policy toward the parastatal sector and the port suh-sector: Government policy toward the major
parastatals underwent substantial change during the project: from commercialization, within the public
sector, to the privatization of operations. The project was amended to support this change in policy.
Liberalization of the economy: During the 1990's, the Governmenit progressively liberalized the economy.
The project was extended for three years to accommodate the improvement of KOJ which was critically
necessary for the liberalization of the petroleum sector.
Re-organization of Government: The TRA was established, in 1994, to increase the efficiency of the tax
collection system. The design of the project was modified to provide increased support to the Customs
Departnment of TRA.
Duty Collection Procedures: To reduce the loss of customs' revenue, the Govemment introduced new
regulations on bonded warehouses and new auditing procedures for cargo clearance. These changes
increased container dwell time and negated the previous improvement in cargo clearance time (80% of
consignments cleared within two days).
5.3 Factors generallv subject to inmplementing agency  control:
Human resource management: The poor discipline, low morale and inadequate workshop staffing
contributed to the low equipment availability and port productivity. The incentive scheme was designed to
address the issue of motivation but initial productivltv increases were not sustained, the scheme generated
8 -



dissatisfaction and, in 1994, it was terninated.
Management/staff communication: The poor communication within the THA management team and
between management and port staff appears to have had a negative impact on the achievement of the
operational targets.
Operational planning & control: Inefficient planning and control procedures for daily container handling
operations and inappropriate operational pattern for RTG operations had a negative impact on operational
performance.
Project coordination: The performance of the PCU facilitatedthe satisfactory implementation of the
project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The actual project cost of US$126.43 million is extremely close to the SAR estimate, US$122.30 million.
Howevei. there were very substantial changes withini the project and large variations in the costs of
individual components, which are outlined below:
Civil Works: The total cost of this category was 142% of the SAR estimate as a result of the change in the
scope of the works. Additional works were included (e.g. dredging, customs buildings) and the scope of
some works increased (Rehabilitation of berths 1-8). Some works were deleted (i.e. rehabilitation of
Belgian & Lighter wharves), some works were funled under PRP, and KOJ was rehabilitated rather than
reconstructed.
Equipment: The total cost of this category was 79% of the SAR estimate. Cost savings were made as it
was found that some equipment did not require replacement.
Consultants Services: The total cost of this category was 126% of the SAR estimate, reflecting the
addition of new studies and increased design/supervision costs for the civil works.
Institutional Development: The total cost was 22% of the SAR estimate. A very large component of
Institutional TA to THA was planned but it was discontinued in 1995, when it became clear that it was
having very limited impact. The assistance for the privatization of the container terminal was relatively
inexpensive (US$0.54 million).
The aggregate project financing arrangements remained relatively close to the SAR estimates:
SAR           SAR           Actual        Actual
US$ million      I%          US$ million       %
IDA                   37.0           30            37.1           29
GOT                   28.8           23            22.7           18
Co-financiers         56.5           47            67.2           53
There were some major changes in the financing arrangements at the component level, for example, the
container terminal equipment was financed by the EIB (a new co-financier) rather than by FINNIDA and
THA.
9 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale or sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated aslikely. The project has provided the infrastructure and
operating equipment which, if efficiently managed, operated and maintained, will enable the port to meet
traffic demand at high service levels, for many years ahead, and become a reliable and cost effective link to
the neighboring landlocked countries. The constraints imposed on operational performance by the
parastatal framework of THA are being progressively removed through the privatization of port operations.
Operations at the container terminal have already been privatized and the process for privatizing the other
operational activities has been initiated. The container terminal has been leased to the private sector for a
10 year period, as no major investments during this period are envisaged. This period will demonstrate the
potential improvements in the operational and financial performance of the terminal, prior to a longer-term
concession from 2010, when major investments wi]l be required. Given the general lack of success in
sustaining operational improvements within the parastatal institutional environment, privatization of
operational activities has become accepted in Tanzania as the way forward.
The sustainability of the TRA component is also considered likely as the rehabilitated infrastructure will
now be supported by the new Tax Administration Credit that will include appropriate TA for the
streamlining of procedures, reform of the institutional and legal frameworks, etc.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition arrangements for the project's future operation revolve around the privatization program for
the remaining business units of TIHA. A transaction adviser is being selected and it is planned to have all
port operations privatized by 2004. Given the leve! of capacity available in the general cargo berths, there
are unlikely to be major operational problems or capacity constraints in the period to privatization. Similar
to the container terminal lease, all concessions will include contractual performance standards. Any future
port related project should focus on developing THA as an efficient "landlord" authority. The optimum
timing for an impact evaluation would be in 2002 or 2003.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's performance at lending (identification, preparation and appraisal) wasatisfactory,
within the prevailing paradigm of support for major transport parastatals.
The project was consistent with the Government's priorities and the Bank's CAS. The project was
identified and prepared as an extension of PRP and this led to continuity. The Bank was fullv involved in
project preparation and provided considerable assistance to the Borrower. The project was consistent with
the Bank's safeguard policies, and the project design, despite some shortcomings, was satisfactory. The
Bank's input during this stage amounted to 10.3 staff weeks consisting of a transport economist, two
economists/financial analysts and a port engineer; most were involved in PRP and continuity was
maintained. However, the design of the institutional development component might have been enhanced by
a specialized port management expert.
The Bank's performance during project appraisal is also evaluated as satisfactory. 23.5 staff weeks were
used for appraisal and negotiations. Staff continuity was maintained. The SAR presented the level of
government commitment to the project and included appropriate TA to strengthen THA's project
management capacity. Project risks and key variables were recognized and incorporated in the economic
analysis. Perceived lessons learned from previous projects in the countrv/sector were considered at
appraisal and incorporated into the project design, but their impact was not always effective. Coordination
- 10-



with other donors was maintained and the satisfactory integration of funding sources achieved.
Performance indicators were, in general, adequate.
For most project components, that were not revised, the SAR implementation plan proved reasonable. The
scale of cost variations, however, suggests that the costs for some project components could not or were not
accurately assessed.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. The Bank undertook 26 supervision missions
during the ten year implementation period. The first ten supervision missions, June 1990 - March 1993,
covered both PRP and this project. On average, there were between 2 to 3 supervision missions per year
but thert were no missions between February 1996 and April 1997, when there was no on-going
construction activities. There was no Mid-Term Review for this project.
Project supervision totaled 154.5 staff weeks, i.e., about 15 staff weeks per year. It is evident from the
comprehensive aide memoires that supervision was thorough and compliance with the DCA's covenants
monitored. The Bank's activities during supervision included assistance with the identification of potential
problems, submission of suggestions and provision of guidance to the implementing agencies for proactive
or corrective actions or improvements to the projecd.The Bank's dialogue with the Borrower was a
contributory factor to the change in government policy which resulted in the re-focusing of the
project towards privatization.
The Bank responded promptly to requests for amenJments or extensions to the project and also assisted
with the preparation of implementation programs for new components. There was rigorous follow-up on
agreed actions and the Bank was firm with respect to compliance with the DCA. The Bank monitored the
impact of components and took appropriate action, when necessary. For example, when the Bank's
assessed that there was little benefit from management TA, the program was discontinued and emphasis
given to changing the institutional framework for the sector.
The Bank maintained a close and generally harmonious dialogue with the Borrower, the implementing
agencies and the other co-financiers and regularly attended THA's annual donor conferences.
During the ten years of project implementation, thetee were three different task managers and a number of
changes in the composition of the supervision team. The continuity of supervision was maintained as all
missions included, at least, one member from the previous mission. The supervision skill mix was too
limited; on eight oLit of the nine missions, September 1993 - July 1997, the team was limited to a Port
Engineer, although many issues were outside engineering, e.g., commercialization, port operations and
customs procedures.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the basis of the ratings given to the Bank's lending and supervision performance, the overall Bank
performance is rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparanioi':
Given the close dialogue and collaboration between the Bank and the Borrower (including the implementing
agencies), the assessment made of the Bank's performance, is equally valid for the borrower. The
Borrower's performance at preparation is, therefore. also ratedsatisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
- 11 -



The Government's performance during implementation wassatisfactory. The Government demonstrated a
strong commitment to the project's objectives and took the initiative to introduce amendments to the DCA
that substantially enhanced the project. When it became evident that its existing policies would not yield
the desired results, the Government acted decisively and revised its policy toward the public sector's
operational activities and initiated the privatization process. Despite pressure, the Government maintained
its commitment to the leasing of the container terminal.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Most of the project was implemented by THA, through the PCU. During the initial stages of the project,
the PCU's performance was inadequate but, following the attachment of TA and strengthening with local
professionals (who received appropriate training), the PCU, and THA as the implementing agency,
performed satisfactorily. The comprehensive quarterly reports provided a sound basis for project
monitoring. Audit reports were submitted on time, and the DCA covenants were, in general, met.
Whenever necessary, THA took the initiative to coordinate the components of the other implementing
agencies. THA's performance in the financial management of the entire project was satisfactory. THA
was also effective in undertaking studies that provided useful information for project decision-making.
Counterpart funding was never an issue. However, THA was unable to resolve a number of issues,
particularly with respect to human resource management (e.g. staff discipline, morale, motivation) and
industrial relations, which had a negative impact oni project outcomes.
The TRA was able to implement all its components although one contract (Mapato House) resulted in
time-consuming disbursement problems caused by an unnecessarily complex contract and the unfamiliarity
of the Engineer with World Bank procedures.
PSRC managed the privatization of the container terminal satisfactorily.
Since all project components were implemented and satisfactorily completed, the performance of the
implementing agencies is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of the foregoing, the overall borrower performance was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
On the basis of the foregoing, the project provides the following key lessons:
a)     Raising port service levels to international standards is generally not achievable within the
public sector framework. An appropriate institutional framework, involving private sector
participation in operational activities, is essential for the sustainable improvement of the port system.
If there is no domestic competition in the sector, regional competition and/or well-designed concession
agreements with an appropriate regulatory authority will protect the public interest.
b)     The implementation of a divestiture program should be undertaken by an institution not related
to the enterprise and the privatization policy should be central to the macro-economic policy
framework. This ensures a more objective approach to the divestiture and provides the process with
appropriate political backing.
c)     A flexible attitude to project design in the light of changing circumstances or project
performance prevents the waste of resources on components with negligible impact and facilitates the
re-allocation of resources to more critical investments. This project is a good example of where a
flexible approach to design substantively benefited the final outcome of a project through, for example,
- 12-



the upgrading of the KOJ.
d)    While simple projects may be preferable, sometimes, as in this case, a complex project is
essential. With a large number of contracts (44 contracts financed by IDA plus contracts financed by
other donors), a large number of co-financiers, and a long project duration, an adequately staffed and
well trained coordination unit and an efficient record and documentation system is essential for efficient
project management. While coordination of this project was more than adequate, the system for project
documentation was somewhat less than ideal. This should be given appropriate consideration during
project design.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
PORT COMPONENT
Introduction
The Port Modernization Project II was formed owing to the Borrowers Willingness to undertake major
reforms in the transport sector to address the shortcomings of the sector. This was after the response of
various donors who were called upon when the Borrower presented a document called "Programme for
Transport Sector Recovery". The Borrower seeing the magnitude of investment set aside over 20% of the
total development budget expenditure to the transport sector beginning 1989. The Port of Dar es Salaam
being the largest eamer of foreign exchange in the country and contributes almost 61% of the total
throughput and as such its modemization was of paiamount importance to users. Cr. 2095-TA was
second to a major programme, which started in 1984 under Port Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1536-TA)
Integrated Performance
The project's aim was to modernize the infrastructure of the port, expand container handling capacity, and
improve equipment maintenance and Management Skills. All of these were very successful.
In general the project objectives were all met. Quoting the January 10th, 1990 staff appraisal report, the
aim of the project was to increase the efficiency and cost effectiveness of the port operations to all its users
by expanding the physical, managerial and operati( n1al capabilities of the Borrower to meet the traffic from
Tanzania and its neighboring landlocked countries.
On the whole the project has met its aim, the Container Terminal has been expanded and can handle double
the amount of cargo that was handled before the project. Staff including highly qualified Managers,
equipment availability has increased through good maintenance arrangements and spare parts procurement
the revenue collection has been enhanced, the commercially oriented Management has given way to
concessioning of units in the ports starting with the Container Terminal and Grain Terminal. Most of all
departmenits have got computers, and have improved their management control and decisions. Though the
link to the neighboring countries has been improved, the failure of traffic growth as expected has been
affected by prolonged wars and conflicts in the ZBR region which has caused almost stagnation of the
area's economic development.
Going through the Staff Appraisal Report one will finds that quite a number of components could not be
carried out as planned, these were the Lighterage Wharf Paving and utilities and Belgian Wharf
Rehabilitation. However, late in the life of the credit, sometime in May 1997, it becomes necessary to
revise the scope of the project, by including an extra component for the Customs through the Tanzania
Revenue Authority. This was meant for rehabilitation and strengthening of Border Stations and their
computerization including refurbishment of the Customs Head Office. This led to the first credit extension
of two years to June 1999. However, one further extension was inevitable to allow for completion of the
- 13-



components in light of the new country oil liberalization programme which directed an upgrade of the
Kurasini Oil Jetty in order to be able to handle all refined white petroleum products, including Crude Oil,
also the inclusion of an extra component to cover for the concessioning of the Container Terminal through
the Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC). This further extension was to end on June 30th, 2000.
It should be noted here that during the first quarter of the life of the project, the Borrower had in place some
of bilateral donors who had their own timetables foi completion of their components. The last one was
FINNIDA who completed in 1994. Though a little time later, NORAD came back for a further assistance
to an extra Coastal Tanker Berth which was completed in 1998.
Achievement of Objectives and Results
Most of the physical objectives of the project were achieved except for a few components, which were not
executed because of further studies to determine their viability.
*      Civil Works: Improvements to the Container Terminal, Kurasini Inland Depot, Ubungo Inland
Depot, the construction of Copper Depot, Road and Upgrading of the Kurasini Oil Jetty were all completed
and successful.
*     Equipment: New equipment procured for dhe general cargo funded by the IDA was procured and
put to use.
*      Engineering Services and Studies: Various Consultants were engaged in design and supervision of
most of the components in the project plus a few studies carried out during the life of the project. The
major one being the Port Development Study for 1994-2004. Project Co-ordination was no longer done by
an expatriate unit formed during a previous project but a few individuals from the Engineering Department
managed and coordinated the implementation of project under the guidance of the Director of Engineering
who had the responsibility for project management, operation and co-ordination of various activities in the
complex project.
*     Institutional Development: During the course of implementation of this project there wasn't much
that was improved by a few experts engaged during the initial years of the project before they left. There
was same amount of technical assistance provided at the Contairer Terminal, Operations and Workshops
by other bilateral donors including support and development of middle and upper management skills.
However the results were very little to determine their input. Though currently one can see an improved
statistical and DATA Collection and significant usage of computers improving the Management
information systems.
Lessons Learned
(i)  For an integrated project of this size and complexity it was necessary to keep to the structure of the
credit given rather than derailing management methods of the project by including other components
literally outside the institutions co-ordinating capability. The Bank should have channeled the
components to mother Ministries dealing with TRA and PSRC who could have been more
instrumental in the decision making and process follow up by the Bank.
(ii) In future project of this size the capabilities of that Project Coordination Unit (PCU), should not be
reduced or thinned down as was the case in this project, rather it should have been strengthened and
left specifically to deal with project matters, and not to be engaged in other projects to give them
more time for co-ordination matters from the funded projects, to the Bank. At the time being the
number of staff in the PCU considerably was reduced while the tasks expended far beyond their
capabilities.
- 14-



Bank Performance
Considering the almost 10 year life span of this project, the performance of the Bank has always been very
good. Supervision Missions were carried out regularly and professionally. A common understanding
always existed between the Borrower and the Bank and the problems that were encountered had a joint
approach to being solved. This also led to a good understanding of revising the scope of the project as new
factors emerged. Most revisions undertaken reduced the potential costs and time overruns in the
subsequent inclusion of new components, which allowed maximum benefits within the project. The much
awaited concessioning of the Container Terminal was completed before the end of this project.
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
Throughout the projects implementation to its completion, a resultant combination of assistance received
from Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers made the objectives of the project be achieved on time and
within estimated costs, even after various revisions by addition of extra components.
CUSTOMS COMPONENT
The World Bank Funded Customs Component of the Port Modemization Project had the following
categories:
Civil Works carried out under the project
3   Rehabilitation and improvement of the Customs part of Mapato House
o  Rehabilitation and improvement of fifteen Customs Transit and Border Stations
*   Rehabilitation and improvement of the Temporary Longroom accommodation at TRA HQ
* Rehabilitation of the Customs offices at the Dar es Salaam Intemational Airport (DIA)
The following goods and equipment were supplied under the project
*   Communication equipments for Transit and Border Stations
v   Motor Vehicles and Motor Cycles for the Transit and Border Stations
* Assorted office furnitures for Mapato House
*   Generators for Customs HQ, Customs Offices at DIA and for the Transit and Border Stations
Consultancy and Training
_   Consultancy Services for the civil works
*   Consultancy Services for the Supply and Installation of radio communication equipment
*   Consultancy Services on Customs operations
*   Training was provided to TRA staff on the World Bank Procurement Procedures, Ascyuda, etc.
Bank Performance
The Bank need to improve the time needed for issues requiring prior review and no objection. The Bank's
supervision teams were very cooperative and provided constructive guidance and support. The Task Team
Leader was very objective.
Relationship among TRA, W/B Co-Financiers and Other Partners
Financing of this component was 90% IDA and 10% TRA in teims of counterpart contribution
Banks Contribution Through the Project Life
The Bank's contribution through the Project Life has been very effective as almost all the equipment and
paitly training was financed by the Bank. The project was successfully completed
Project Contribution
- 15-



The refurbished buildings provide a conducive working environment. Training and equipment provided
under the project has increased the working efficiency and subsequently Government revenue.
Rehabilitation of Transit/Border Stations and installation of communication equipment has tremendously
increased the Transit traffic control capacity. This has reduced the loophole for Tax evasion.
Conclusion
The Project has successfully achieved the following preset objectives:-
* infrastructure improvement
*   improvement of transit traffic control
*   improve documentation and customs operation through ASYCUDA
PRIVATIZATION COMPONENT
The credit funded the transaction consultants, CPCS Transcom of Canada, to assist the Presidential
Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC) in privatizing the Container Terminal at the Port of Dar es
Salaam under Tanzanian Harbours Authority (THA).
In identifving the transaction consultants for this project, PSRC followed World Bank procurement
guidelines for the selection of consultants. During the privatization process PSRC agreed with the World
Bank on. the privatization process to be followed and adhered to that process to ensure transparency and
equitable treatment of interested parties. PSRC consulted with the Bank at key milestones throughout the
privatization process.
The use uf transaction consultants was advantageous for a number of reasons, as follows:
1. Their involvement added credibility to the transaction in the eyes of the private sector
2. Their knowledge of the sector and the private operators within it was beneficial to the process and
contributed to its successful outcome
3. Their preparation of various documents saved considerable time
From the PSRC perspective, the World Bank was responsive and cooperative. The task manager provided
timely feedback, aid made valuable contributions to the process while at the same time accommodating the
interests and concerns of the Government of Tanzaiiia.
PSRC believes that the Government disbursed the payments to the transactions consultants in an
appropriate manner. The Government set the privatization strategy for the Container Terminal and ensured
its implementation.
The objective of the project was achieved. The private operator for the Container terminal was identified
after having followed a competitive process. In conclusion, PSRC considers the project to have been
successful
(h) Cofinanciers:
A requests for comments was sent to the co-financing institutions, but no comments were received
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
|                                                             -   .   s ?vs   * :3 : -.: - .;.   21 t:t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. .          
Container Handling Productivity
SSG moves/hour                           20                                       13.0
Import Container Dwell Time
(days)                                   18                                       26
Container Equipment Availability
(%)                                      80                                       84
Container ship service time (days)       1.57                                     1.10
Output Indicators:
+, - ..... - .-Y #g . ............................. ... t .... - -R . l~~~x .. .... .. 1""'.
Tanzania traffic (million tonnes)        1.20 (1995)                              1.19 (1995)    1.59 (1999)
Transit traffic (million tonnes)         1.74 (1995)                              0.89 (1995)    0.57 (1999)
Total dry cargo (million tonnes)         3.35 (1997)                              1.83 (1997)    2.17 (1999)
Container traffic ('000 TEU)             152 (1997)                               103 (1997)    108 (1999)
End of project
The Project was prepared in 1988 and no log frame analysis/matrix was prepared.
Identified Project Risks (SAR):
Project Risk                                                  Outcome
Traffic growth lower than expected               Tanzania generated port traffic was almost exactly on the SAR
forecast. but transit traffic declined very substantially during
implementation as the result of (a) the opening of alternative routes
in Southern Africa; and (b) the civil strife in Central Africa.
Project costs higher and/or implementation   in general, project costs were lower than estimated and the project
delayed                                          implemented a number of components which had not been initially
envisaged. While there were some project delays, they were not
substantial.
Operational improvements fail to materialize The capacity of the container termninal was expanded substantially
by the Project, and this allowed the increased container throughput
without major congestion. Operational productivity in the port
generally increased much less than expected and cargo service
levels showed relatively little improvement.
- 17 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Civil Works (Port)                                     50.50            90.68           180
Equipment (Port)                                       21.70            20.75            96
Consultant's Services and TA (Port)                    21.46            10.78            50
Consultane's S.srvices and TA (Customs and PSRC'        2.00             0.78            39
Equipment (Customs)                                      0.41            1.11           261
Civil Works (Customs)                                   0.00             2.75
Total Baseline Cost                                    96.07           126.85
Physical Contingencies                                 7.33
Price Contingencies                                    18.90
Total Project Costs             122.30           126.85
Total Financing Required              122.30           126.85
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
=---  .... .>  . .....u..         Meft- od
1. Works                      23.80          0.00          0.00          41.70        65.50
(17.50)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (17.50)
2. Goods                       7.40          0.00          1.20          18.90        27.50
______________________      (7.40)         (0.00)        (1.20)        (0.00)        (8.60)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          10.90         18.40        29.30
(Engineering Services,        (0.00)        (0.00)        (10.90)        (0.00)       (10.90)
Studies and TA
Total                       31.20         0.00          12.10         79.00        122.30
_______________________    (24.90)         (0.00)       (12.10)        (0.00)       (37.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Exp~~~~~~~~~*lItu~~~~~~~~~~~~~e  ...... ..P cae etM tod     ~..            T tlG s
1. Works                      23.04          2.91          0.00          67.64        93.59
______________________      (19.60)        (2.75)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (22.35)
2. Goods                       4.77          0.26          0.06          16.77        21.86
_______________________     (4.77)         (0.26)        (0.06)        (0.00)        (5.09)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00          9.66           1.90         11.56
(Engineering Services,        (0.00)        (0.00)         (9.66)        (0.00)       (9.66)
Studies and TA
Total                       27.81          3.17          9.72         86.31        127.01
(24.37)        (3.01)       (9.72)        (0.00)        (37.10)
18 -



L Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office. training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Civil Works (Port)       17.55      17.59     30.36     19.60      22.36     48.52    111.7  127.1  159.8
Equipment (Port)          8.22      8.69      10.18      3.98      0.00      16.77    48.4   0.0   164.7
Consultants' Services / TA  8.46    2.48      15.97      8.88      0.00       1.90    105.0   0.0    11.9
(Port)
Consultants' Services / TA  2.43    0.00      0.00       0.78      0.00       0.00    32.1   0.0    0.0
(Customs)
Equipment (Customs)       0.41      0.00      0.0')      1.11      0.00       0.00    270.7   0.0    0.0
Civil Works (Customs)     0.00      0.00      0.00       2.75      0.16       0.00     0.0    0.0    0.0
-19 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Introduction
The project was designed to increase the capacity and service performance of the port to cater for increasing
traffic. In particular, a rapid growth in container traffic was expected from both economic growth in the port's
hinterland, and a substantial increase in the containerization of existing general cargo. Without the project, the
effective capacity of the port would have been insufficient to accommodate the expected flow of containers
which would have resulted in either: (a) container traffic diverting to other ports; or (b) cargo continuing to be
shipped as break-bulk cargo. The major constraint to container handling capacity was not the berth or crane
capacity, but rather the capacity of the stacking yards to accommodate the number of stored containers.
During the implementation of the project, two major additional components were added which had rather
different impacts upon the port and the level of overall economic benefits:
(a)    The dredging and straightening of the entrance channel which has enabled the THA to provide 24 hour
access to the port, thus eliminating ship delays from the lack of access during night hours and during
low tides. In addition, it provides the opportunity for shipping lines to utilize larger vessels, thus
reducing overall shipping costs.
(b)    The improvement of the Kurasini Oil Jetty (KOJ) which substantially increases Tanzania's capacity to
import refined petroleum products. This inci-ease in capacity has enabled Tanzania to liberalize the
petroleum sector, withdraw subsidies from the inefficient TIPER Refinery and rely on the import of
refined petroleum products, at significantly 'ower cost.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated that the overall economic rate of return (ERR) from the Project
would be approximately 20%, and identified traffic growth as the primary risk to economic benefits.
Ex-Post Economic Evaluation
The ex-post economic evaluation has broadly follow, I the same methodology used in the SAR, though it has
been modified to take into account the changed configuration of investments and thus economic benefits. The
evaluation has adopted a very conservative approach to the estimation of benefits and the overall economic rate
of return has been significantly and possibly substantially underestimated, for example,
*  the 1999 traffic level is assumed to remain constant throughout the remaining life of the project;
*  no benefits have been assumed from the leasing of the container terminal to the private sector although the
private operator is contracted to increase, very substantially, handling productivity and service standards;
* no economic benefits have been assumed from the inland movement of transit containers, although both
road and rail (TRC and TAZARA) derive substantial revenues from this traffic;
*  no benefits have been assumed from the port's ability to accommodate larger ships with lower unit costs
which would eventually be translated into some reduction in sea freight tariffs.
The privatization of the operations of the container terminal (supported by the Project) should have a major
positive impact upon the level of port performance and thus economic benefits. The successful concessioning of
the terminal is now to be followed by the privatization of THA's other operational activities. However, no
benefits have been attributed to the project as, conceptually, it would have been possible to concession the port
without the investments made under this project.
- 20-



Port Traffic
The forecast and actual levels of port traffic are shown in Table I
Table 1: Expected and Actual Dry Cargo Traffic - Dar es Salaam Port
('000 tons or TEU)
1988     1990    1991      1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997      1998     1999
SAR
Total Traffic   2056     2145    2270      2433      2599     2761      2945     3141      3351      n.a.      n.a.
Conventional    1382      1300    1281     1262      1188     1208      1232     1252      1267      n.a.      n.a.
Container        674       845     989     1171      1411     1553      1713     1889      2084      n.a.      n.a.
Containers     48152    62075   72441    85733   103282   113589   125182   137958   152038          n.a       n.a.
ACTUAI
Total Traffic   2056      1884    1894     2346      2453     2062      2084     1664      1836     2197      2166
Conventional    1382      1142    1054     1498      1364     1105       921      551       710      987      1120
Container        674      742      840      848      1089      957      1163     1113      1126     1210      1046
Containers     48152    64594   76699    86188    97755    90450    98559    98906   103461   109528   108158
Total dry cargo traffic in 1997 was only 55% of the SAR forecast level: a 63% increase in total traffic had been
forecast, but there was an 11% fall in traffic. Containierized traffic increased but, in tonnage terms, only to
about half the expected level although the total numl er of TEU inr. :ased rather faster.
The major differences between the forecast and actua (levels of port traffic can be almost entirely explained by
the impact of the geopolitical developments in Eastem and Southern Africa and their resultant impact on the
level and distribution of transit traffic, Table 2.
- 21 -



Table 2: Traffic Distribution - Dar es Salaam Port
('000 tonnes or TEU)
1991    1992   1993    1994   1995   1996    1997    1998    1999
Tanzania
Total Traffic:  SAR     982    1037   1088    1143    1202
Actual    819    967    1169    1047   1193    956   1241    1265    1591
TEU           SAR     37928  40857  44086   48330   53030
Actual  33482  40534  43588   41577  47403  47825   53214  55613   55888
Transit
TotalTraffic:   SAR    1288    1396   1511    1618   1743
Actual   1075    1379   1284   11324    892    708        595    554    575
TEU           SAR    34513  44876   59196   65259  72152
Actual  27877   26437  30278   27576  28641   26071   22660   18882  22753
In 1995, the last year for detailed SAR forecasts, Tanzanian traffic was close to the SAR forecast levels: 99% of
the forecast level for total dry cargo traffic and 89% for container traffic. Total transit traffic, on the other hand,
was 5 % of the forecast level and container traffic was even lower, at 40% of the SAR forecast
Economic Analysis
Most of the same basic parameters were used in the ex-post economic evaluation of the project, as were
employed in the SAR. However, a number of changes were introduced to reflect the changes in the design of the
project, delays in implementation, and the reaction of the shipping lines to port congestion:
K Reduced ship delays from the deepening and straightening of   entrance channels which now allows 24
hour access;
*   Cost savings from the importation of refined petroleum products rather than crude oil to the small,
inefficient and high cost TIPER refinery;
*  Actual surcharge imposed by the shipping lines on Dar es Salaam freight traffic, rather than the more
hypothetical estimate based on simulated ship delays and distribution of the additional costs to Dar es
Salaam traffic:
*  No benefits to cargo handled on the conventional cargo berths: on a before - after basis, there was no
sustained improvement in productivity; and
*  No benefits to reduced container dwell time: on a before - after basis, there was no sustained reduction in
average container dwell time. Given the additional processing requirements introduced by Tanzania
Customs, the dwell times could have been even longer "without" the project and the reduction in the
customs clearance processing time.
22 -



It has been assumed in the analysis that the major container handling equipment has a life of 15 years with no
salvage value, the civil works of the berths have a 20 year life with no residual value, and the dredging has a 50
year life with nonnal maintenance dredging.
In the analysis, it was assumed that, in the "without" project scenario, transit rather than domestic containers
would divert to other ports. In view of the increased number of ports open to transit traffic (particularly Nacala,
Beira and Durban), this assumption appears realistic. The container capacity in the "without" scenario is
broadly sufficient for the level of Tanzanian traffic. To calculate the capacity of the stacking yards, the actual
container dwell times have been used.
Costs and benefits have been based on their impact on the Tanzanian national economy; rather different results
would be obtained if either regional or global economic benefits had been calculated. The national costs and
benefits are considered to be the most appropriate for the analysis. Very much higher benefits would have been
obtained, in future years, if the container handling productivity rates, included in the recent lease with the
private container terminal operator, were adopted. However, the private operator has yet to demonstrate that
these target levels can be attained and sustained. Therefore, the level of benefits in 1999 has been assumed to
remain constant until the end of the project period in 2011.
Economic Returns
The S AR estimated that the project investment woula generate an economic rate of return (ERR) of 20% and a
net present value (NPV) of US$42.7 million at a 100/u discount rate. The estimated actual ERR is rather lower
than the forecast return, 13.3%, with a NPV (10%) of US$20.76 million.
- 23 -



Economic Analysis: Port Modernization Project
-------------- -- - --   COSTS             -         --------BENEFITS------------------------   Net
------------- Investment -------- O&M   Total    Container Traffic  KOJ   Channel   Total  Economic
Civil Works Equipment  TA   Costs  Costs  Diverted  Surcharge   Jetty   Dredging  Benefits  Benefits
1990      26.43       0.00  0.00   0.00   26.43                                            0.00    -26.43
1991      13.54       0.00  0.12   0.53    14.19                                           0.00    -14.19
1992       1.69       0.39  1.04   0.80    3.92                                            0.00     -3.92
1993       1.92       0.07  5.19   0.86    8.04                                            0.00     -8.04
1994       7.58       0.27  2.29   0.91    11.05     2.08       5.48                       7.56      -3.49
1995       0.79       0.10  1.05   1.08    3.02      S.87      6.08                       14.96     11.93
1996       0.00      19.11  0.02   1.11   20.24      6.03      7.47                       13.50     -6.74
1997       5.85       0.15  0.60   2.63    9.23      5.28      8.22                       13.50      4.26
1998       9.98       0.06  0.50   2.76   13.30      6.25      8.65                       14.90      1.59
1999       7.92       0.14  0.12   2.97   11.15      7.84      7.15               1.26    16.25      5.11
2000       5.56       0.08  0.11   3.14    8.89      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     16.88
2001                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2002                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2003                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2004                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2005                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2006                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2007                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2008                               3.25    3.25      7.84      7.15    8.&5       2.52    25.76     22.51
2009                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2010                               3.25    3.25      7.84       7.15    8.25      2.52    25.76     22.51
2011     -16.71                    3.25  -13.46      7.84      7.15    8.25       2.52    25.76     39.22
IRR       13.3 %
1. Economic costs are net of taxes and local costs are adjusted by a SCF of 0.8           NPV       20.76
2. Rehabilitation of berths and pavement extension are assumed to have a life of 20 years, dredging a life of 50 years
3. Annuial maintenance of civil works is 2% of capital cost; maintenance and operations of equipment is 5% of capital cost
4. Containe traffic in excess of capacity are assumed to be in transit. Economic loss to Tanzania US$250/TEU containers
5. It is assuned that the initial surcharge ofUSS90/TEU would be increased to US$150/TEU with the continuing congestion
6. Annual crude oil imports averaged 0.55 million tonnes. Savings from the import of refmed products US$15/tonne
7. Waiting time savings based on existing ship characteristics.
While the rates of return are rather lower than the forecasts, they are still satisfactory especially when the major
changes in regional traffic flows are taken into account. Moreover, as detailed previously, a conservative
approach has been adopted toward the estimation of the benefits. More particularly, the project has provided the
port infrastructure necessary to allow private operators to provide international levels of port services to
Tanzania and its hinterland. This will remove one of the most significant single constraints to economic growth
and development.
- 24 -



Ex-Post Financial Analysis
The analysis of the financial returns from the project to the THA adopts the same broad framework as the
economic analysis and the results are similarly conservatively estimated. There are, however, some differences
in the assumptions used for the analysis:
*  the avoidable financial operating costs for the container terninal have been estimated from the financial
model developed for the concessioning of the terminal. 1998 has been adopted as the base year for the
analysis and an incremental cost of US$66/TEU has been calculated. This has been applied to all
containers whether loaded, empty, FCL or LCL.
*  Only direct revenue benefits to THA have been used in the analysis. Improved service levels to shippers
and shipping lines and the THA's potential to increase port charges have been generally excluded from the
analysis. The exception is the deepening and st-aightening of the entrance channel for which it has been
assinned that THA will be able to adjust the port dues to reflect the major improvement in accessibility and
reduced ship delays.
* Container storage charges are a major source of revenue to the THA. However, it is assumed in the"
v thout" project situation that most of the diverted containers would be transit containers to third countries.
In the "with" project situation, these transit containers are subject to long delays in the port and could be
subject to significant storage penalties (US$20/day after 15 days free time). However, the THA has made
major concessions to transit traffic, and it has been assumed that no storage charges are, in fact, raised. The
exclusioni of all storage charges on the additional container traffic is probably a significant underestimation
of the total financial benefits.
*  It is assumed that without the investment, petroleum flows to Zambia would be seriously affected,
particularly in view of the very poor condition of the Single Buoy Mooring and the sub-marine pipeline to
the Tazama depot Without the investment, a loss of revenue equivalent of US$0.85/tonne would be
inci;rred on a total flow of approximately 500,000 tonnes.
Finan<l'al Results
The SAR estimated the project's financial rate of return at 14%. The ex-post evaluation estimates the financial
return at 7.5%, substantially lower than the SAR estimate, but very consistent with the comparative reduction in
the econcomic rate of return, from 20% to 13%. The reduction in the financial return cannot be considered very
surprising, given the substantially reduced traffic floxx to that forecast in the SAR.
- 25 -



Financial Analysis: Tanzania Port Modernization Project
(US$ million)
----------- ---------Investment-- -     O&M   Total -----------Additonal Revenue------ Net Cash
Civil Works Equipment   TA   Total Costs  Costs  TEU   POL Channel  Total    Flow
1990      27.80      0.00  0.00   27.80        27.80                               -27.80
1991      13.90      0.00  0.12   14.02        14.02                               -14.02
1992       1.69      0.39  1.04    3.12         3.12                                -3.12
1993       1.92      0.07  5.19    7.18         7.18                                -7.18
1994       7.58      0.27  2.29   10.14   1.24  11.38  4.11                 4.11    -7.27
1995       0.79      0.10  1.05    1.94  3.32   5.26  15.64                15.64    10.38
1996       0.00     19.11  0.02   19.13  2.66  21.79  i1.12                11.12   -10.67
1997       5.85      0.15  0.60    6.60  2.58   9.18  10.05                10.05     0.88
1998      11.05      0.06  0.50   11.61  2.68  14.29   8.68                 8.68    -5.61
1999       8.52      0.14  0.12    8.78  3.50  12.28  ;4.34                14.34     2.05
2000       5.28      0.08  0.11    5.47  3.50   8.97  14.34  0.43          14.76     5.79
2001                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2002                                     3.50   3.50  i4.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2003                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2004                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2005                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2006                                     3.50   3.50  i 4.34  0.43    152  17.28    13.78
2007                                     3.50   3.50  A4.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2008                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2009                                     3.50   3.50  14.34  0.43    2.52  17.28    13.78
2010                                     3.50   3.50  .4.34  0.43    2.52   17.28    13.78
2011      18.01                  -18.01   3.50 -14.51  14.34  0.43    2.52   17.28    31.79
IRR       7.5 %
1. Project costs for THA only                                         NPV(10%)   -13.81
2. O&M c,S(F taken from the variable operating and overhead cost analysis Transcom Study
- 26 -



However, despite the lower than forecast financial return on the project, THA remains in a reasonably sound
financial position.
Table 3: THA Income Statement
(Tsh billion)
FY90    FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98    FY99
Operating revenue   11.14    12.44   14.08    28.09    37.89    42.07    49.11    44.06    53.21    55.37
Operating            5.73    11.51   17.02    21.68    29.91    41.68    41.99    38.68    46.03    47.56
ependiture 
Surplus from         5.41     0.94   (2.94)    6.41    7.98     0.39     7.11     5.38     7.18     7.81
operations                                           _
Non-operating        0.64     3.36    1.96     2.03     1.81    3.10     4.08     2.21     1.59     2.51
revenue
Gain on exchange    (1.99)   (2.35)  (2.19)   (4.40)   (5.21)   (3.80)                     (0.15)   (2.63)
rate
Disposal of fixed                             (0.15)                              (0.07)    *        *
assets
Surplus beforetax    4.06     1.95   (3.17)    3.88    4.57    (0.31)   11.20     7.52     8.67     7.69
and exceptional
items                                                 __       ._.__
Exceptional item                                                         (6.84)   (1.19)   (1.14)    0
Provision for tax    2.03     0.97    0.0      1.36    4.43     2.37     1.53     2.28     1.20     2.70
Surplus aiter tax    3.30     0.97   (3.17)    2.52    0.14    (2.68)    2.83     4.06     6.33     4.99
Financial performance has stabilized, after a period of wide fluctuations in the early 1990's and significant
retrenchment financing in FY96 and FY97. Since FY95, the surplus from operations has stabilized at the
equivalent of approximately US$11 million. This has been sufficient to service THA's long term loans and
maintain a stable cash flow position. THA should not need to make further major investments in the
short-medium term in basic infrastructure and investment in equipment should now increasingly become the
responsibility of private sector operators.
While profitable, the THA is substantially less profitable than was projected in the SAR. The operating margin
(operating surplus/operating revenue) has fallen from 50% in FY89 and FY90, to around 13% since 1995 (the
SAR forecast an operating margin of about 38%). The US$ value of THA's revenue has been constrained by the
stagnation in traffic, while costs have increased significantly. Depreciation and financing costs have risen
substantially as a consequence of the investments/loans made through the project but, in addition, staff costs
have increased significantly, from about 33% of operating costs in FY91 to 39% in FY99, reflecting increased
salary levels as the total labor force has declined. An operating surplus of US$40 million was projected for
FY97, and a operating surplus of US$ 11 million was generated.
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. fPersons and Specialty                 Perfrmance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economist,  FMS, etc.)      Implementation      Development
Mo:tloYear    Count        Specialty                        Progress           Objecive
Identification/Preparation
Feb. 5-Feb. 24,1989*           3   Transport Economist, Financial
Analyst, Port Engineer.
April 26-May 9, 1989*          2   Economist, Financial Analyst, .
Appraisal/Negotiation
Jun.13-Jun. 30, 1989*          3   Transport Economist,
Financial Analyst, Port
Engineer.
Supervision
Jun. 4-Jun. 11, 1990*           1   Port Engineer.                       HS                 HS
Oct. 15-Oct. 20, 1990*         2  Financial Analyst, Port                HS                 HS
Engineer.
Nov. 10-Nov.17,1990*            I  Financial Analyst.                     S                  S
Jan. 28-Feb. 9, 1991*           1  Financial Analyst.                     S                 S
Apr. 22-Apr. 25, 1991*         2  FinanciA Analyst, Port                  S                 S
Engineer.
Oct. 5-Oct. 20, 1991*          3  Financial Analyst, Port                S                  S
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist.
Feb. 3-Feb. 16, 1992*          3  Financial Analyst, Port                 S                 S
Engineer, Operations Assistant.
Jul. 2-Jul. 18, 1992*          4  2 Financial Analysts, Port              S                 S
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist.
Nov. 8-Nov. 21, 1992*          3   2 Financial Analysts, Port             S                 S
Engineer.
Mar. 8-Mar.31, 1993*           3  Financial Analyst, Operations           S                 S
Oficer, Port Engineer.
Jul. 5-Jul. 9, 1993            2  Financial Analyst, Port                 S                 S
Engineer.
Sept.20-Sept. 24, 1993         1  Port Engineer.                         S                  S
Jan. 26-Feb. 8, 1994            1  Port Engineer.                         S                  S
Jun.2-Jun.8, 1994               1  Port Engineer.                         S                 S
Oct. 17-Oct. 26 & Oct.         I  Port Engineer.                          S                 S
30-Nov. 2, 1994
Jan. 25-Feb. 4, 1995            1  Port Engineer.                         S                  S
May 31-Jun. 6, 1995             1  Port Engineer.                         S                  S
Feb.l-Feb.8, 1996               1  Port Engineer                          S                  S
Apr. 7-Apr. 11 & Apr.          2  Transport Economist, Port               S                  S
21-Apr. 23, 1997                   Engineer
Jul. 5-Jul. 10, 1997            1  Port Engineer                          S                  S
Feb. 3-Feb. 13, 1998            2  Transport Economist, Port              S                  S
Engineer
- 28 -



May 27-Jun. 8, 1998            2  Transport Economist, Port              S                  S
Engineer
Sept. 17-Sept. 25, 1998        2  Transport Economist, Port              S                  S
Engineer (Consultant).
Feb.16-Feb. 19, 1999           1  TransportEconomist.                    S                  S
Oct. 6-Oct.12, 1999            1  Transport Economist.                   S                  S
ICR
May 8-May 18, 2000             2   Transport Economist, Port             S                  S
Consultant.
* Due to the overlap between the "Port Rehabilitation Project" (Cr. 1536-TA) and the "Port Modernization
Project" (Cr. 2095-TA), these missions have addressed both above projects.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
:____________________       _ ^  _  No. Staff weeks              -Us$  (,000)
Identificat,on/Preparation                10.3                         26.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     21.3                         55.5
Supervision                              155.S                        562.8
ICR                                        3.0                         38.0
Total           _                        190.1                        682.5
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest. N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
a Macro policies                              ) H  OSUnOM   ON *N V4 {
O Sector Policies                           C H  * SU (9 M  0 N  0 NA
O Physical                                  OH   *        SU 0 M  O N  CVNA
O Financial                                  O H  CSU * M   O N  O NA
3 Institutional Development                    H  * SU O M  0 N          4 NA
O Environmental                             C H  0 SU O M  0 Ar ON  h4
Social
0 Poverty Reduction                  0 H  0 SU O M  G N  0 .NA
i Gender                             O.l H  O SU OM  0 N  * NA
Li Other (Please specify)            O H  O SU C M  O N  *N AA
a Private sector development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  O N  C VA
O Public sector management                  0 H  0 SU OM  * N  0 NA
Other (Please specify)                     C H  0 SU 0 M  O N  0 KA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HU=Highly Unsatisfactori)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                           O HS * s  C u O Hu
0 Supervision                                       OHS OS  CU  OHU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS   O U  C HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
0 Preparahon                                        O HS * S   CU  O HU
0 Government implementation performance             0 HS * S  C  U  C HU
OImplementation agencyperformance                   0 HS 0 S  C  U  C HU
0 Overall                                           OHS OS   C U  O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT, Tanzania Port Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1536-TA), January
17, 1995
2. STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT, TANZANIA PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II, JANUARY
10, 1990
3. Aide Memoire (Project Final Supervision Mission), May 2000
4. IRR calculations.
- 32 -



