Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cf;C' 95 F- 
Report No. 8149-TA
STVFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
JANUARY 10, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
This doeoment has a redcted dibion and may be used by reipients only In the performance of
their offlidil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN'S
(as of November 30, 1989)
Currency Unit - Tanzanian Shilling
TSh ,.0 - US$0.00S
US$1.0 - TSh 190
US$1.0 - 0.7792
SDR 1.0 - 1.28336
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            -       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       -       0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (tonnes)  -       1.02 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC                      -     Air Tanzania Corporation
DANIDA                   .     Danish International Development Agency
DCA                      -     Development Credit Agreement
EEC                      -     European Economic Conurunity
ERP                      -     Economic Recovery Program
ERR                      -     Economic Rate of Return
FINNIDA                        Finnish International Development Agency
GDP                      -     Gross Domestic Product
GOT                      -     Government of Tanzania
ICD                     -      Inland Container Depot
1MO                     -      International. Maritime Organization
KOJ                      =     Kurasini Oil Jetty
MCW                      -     Ministry of Communications and Works
MOF                      .     Ministry of Finance
NORAD                    -     Norwegian Agency For Development Cooperation
NTC                      -     National Transport Corporation
ODA                      -     Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
OGL                            Open General License Facility
PCU                      -     Project Coordination Unit
RETCO                    -     Regional Transport Corporation
ROIRO                    -     Roll-on/Roll-off Vessel
RSA                      -     Republic of South Africa
RTG                      -     Rubber Tired Gantry Crane
SADCC                   -      Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SATCC                   -      Southern  Africa  Transport  and  Communications
Commission
SIDA                    -      Swedish International Development Authority
SSG                     -      Ship-to-Shore Gantry Crane
TAC                     -      Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANPRO                  -      Tanzania Trade Facilitation Council
TAIT                     -     Technical Assistance and Training
TANZAM                   -     Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA                  3      Tanzania-Zambia Railways Authority
TEU                     ,      Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit (Container Size)
THA                     -      Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC                     =      Tanzania Railways Corporation
UNCTAD                   -     United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
ZBR                     -      Zaire, Burundi and Rwanda
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFCIL USE ONLY
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PORT MODERlIIZATION PRtOJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
CREDIT AND PROJECT         ................................i - ii.
I.    TRANSPORT SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY ........... ................
A.   Introduction ..............................................
B.   Current State of the Transport Sector .       ....................  2
C.   Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector ............       4
D.   Strategy for Transport Sector Recovery ..        ..................    5
E.   Resource Mobilization and Cost Recovery in the
Transport Sector ...........................................    10
F.   Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector ...........  ..   11
G.   Rationale for Bank Involvement ......      ......................   12
II. THE PORT SUB-SECTOR          ......... ...13
A.    Introduction ...     ...........................................   13
B. t:urrent Status and Issues    ..14
C.    Strategy for Operational Improvements    .       .20
D.    Strategy for Improved Financial Management   .      .24
1I .  THE PROJECT .....................................................   25
A.  Objectives ....................25
B.   Project Scope        .............................................    26
C.   Detailed Project Description ......     ........................   27
D.   Status of Project Preparation ......     .......................   29
E.   Cost Estimates           .....................................   30
F. Financing .... ...                                                 32
G.   Implementation and Project Monitoring ..................  ...   32
H.   Procurement    ...............................................   33
I.    Disbursements       .............................................    34
J.    Accounting and Auditing ........    ...........................   35
K.   Environmental Impact         ......................................    35
IV. ECONOMIC ANA,LYSIS                 . . .36
A.   Future Traffic ...........      .................................    36
B.    Project Economic Benefits ........................   38
C.    Project Economic Costs ........................                 41
D.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis .....      .............   4:
E.   Project Risks ............      .................................   44
This report has been prepared by Messrs. M. Konishi (Sr. Economist/Task Manager),
K. Kohriki (Port Engineer), J. Baz (Economist/Financial Analyst) and G. Wilson
(Economist/Financial Analyst) on the basis of their findings during an appraisal
mission in June 1989. Ms. Laura Selvold produced the graphics and Ms. Hanni
Najar assisted in procescLaS 'his report.
This document has a restrictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
V.    FINANC'AL EVALUATION .***......................... ..........    45
A.    Financial Management                       ..        ....r ...   45
B.    Operating Performance *.....................................   46
C.    Financial Condition ..... ...... .. ... ... ...... . . .. .. . .. ..  .  50
D.    Corporate Financial Strategy   *,,.........,                     51
E.    Financial Forecast .........................I.......   52
F.    Financial Rate of Return ........................                54
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................    55
ANNEXES
1-1   Transport Related Bank Group Projects in Tanzania
2-1   General Cargo Traffics 1983 - 1988
2-2   Container Cargo Traffics 1983 - 1988
2-3   Distribution of Handling Methods: 1980 - 1988
2-4   Commodity Breakdown of Traffic Through Dar es Salaam: 1976 - 1988
2-5   Container Penetration Rates 1983 and 1988
2-6   Technical Working Paper 1s Operational Analysis
3-1A Schedule of Technical Assistance and Training Program
3-1B Breakdown of Donor Contribution to the T.A./T Program
3-2   IDA Funded Technical Assistance Program and Outline Terms of
Reference
3-3   Draft Tems of Reference for Port Development Study
3-4   Project Financing Plan
3-5   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
4-1   Dry Bulk Cargo Traffic Forecast: 1988 - 1995
4-2   Container Cargo Traffic Forecast in TEUs: 1988 - 1995
4-3   Container Cargo Traffic Forecast in Tonness 1988 - 1995
4-4   Rationale for Traffic Projection
4-5   Summary Dry Cargo Traffic Forecast for Dar es Salaam Port With and Without
the Project
4-6   Ships' Service Time and Ships' Waiting Time at Dar es Salaam Port With the
Project
4-7   Ships, Service Time and Ships' Waiting Time at Dar es Salaam Port Without
the Project
4-8   Savings in Ships' Service Time and Waiting Time at Dar es Salaam Port Due
to the Project
4-9   Technical Working Paper 2s Container Dwell Time and Customs
Assistance
4-10 Savings from Container Dwell Time Reduction at Dar es Salaam Port
4-11 Savings Relating to Reassigned and Diverted Traffic
4-12 Economic Costs of the Project
5-1 Summarized Income Statements: 1983-1988
5-2   Tanzanian Shilling/US Dollar Exchange Rates: 1982-1989
5-3A Cost Breakdown by Activity, Dar es Salaam Port 1988
5-3B Tariff Structure, Dar es Salaam Ports July 1989
5-4   Summarized Balance Sheets: 1983-1988
5-5   Status of THA's Loans: June 30, 1989
5-6   Technical Working Paper 3s Corporate Financial Strategy



CHARTS
1.    Projz'ct Implementation Schedule
2.    Organization Chart of Tanzania Harbours Authority
3.    Organization Chart of Dar es Salaam Port
MAPS
1.    Project Location (IBRD 21936)
2.    Existing and Proposed Developments (IBRD 21937)
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    Joint Donor Port Hid-Term Review (May 1988 - Executive Summary, Main Report
and six annexes);
2.    February 1989 THA Donors' Conference Document;
3.    Interim Reports SATCC Project No. 3.7.? Study of the Capacity of the Port
of Dar es Salaam (Janrary 1989);
4.    The Effects of South Africa Border Closure on the Demand for Transit
Transport from the Southern African Land-Locked Countries with Particular
Reference to the Port of Dar es Salaam (UNCTAD, December 1988);
5.    Detailed Engineering of the Container Terminal Expansion;
6.   Dar es Salaam Port Development: Final Report on Technical Assistance for
Port Operations (Phase I) - March 1987 by SWEDPORT for THA and SIDA;
7.    Container Terminals Project Continuation 1990-1993 - June 1989 by Roads
and Water Administration of Finland for THA and FINNIDA;
8.    Project Document for Finnish Contribution to Dar es Salaam Port Development
- January 1989 by Roads and Water Administration of Finland for TEA and
FINNIDA;
9.    Supporting Analysis for Economic Evaluation.
DOCUMENTS AND STUDIES RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
1.    Tanzanias Public Expenditure Review (Gray Cover Rpt. No. 7559-TA), May 22,
1989;
2.    Tanzania: Financial Performance of the Public Transport Sector (Green Cover
Rpt. No. 7610-TA), January 31, 1988;
3.    Tanzania: Programme for Transport Sector Recovery: Report Prepared by the
Government of Tanzania for the Transport Sector Donors' Conference.
Arusha, Tanzania, December 1987.



- i -
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers                United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:             Tanzania Harbours Authority and the Customs Department
of the Ministry of Finance
Credit Amounts           SDR 28.9 million  (US$37.0 millicn equivalent)
Credit Termss            Standard, with 40 years maturity
Proiect                  The main objective of the project is to expand the
Description:             physical, managerial and operational capabilities of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) to meet the traffic
volume expected in the 1990s.  The project will also
provide a more reliable and cost effective transport link
for neighboring landlocked countries, thus facilitating
their overseas trade activities. The project includes:
.i) civil works to expand the port container terminal
by 200X, complete the Ubungo and Kurasini inland
container depots, pave the lighterage wharf for container
storage, construct a port access road, complete the
second phase of general cargo terminal rehabilitation
and   repair   concrete   piles   and   fenders;   (ii)
rehabilitation of the port's central workshop and
provision of technical assistance for training of
mechanics; (iii) procurement of container and general
cargo handling equipment; (iv) management assistance and
training for middle and upper management; (v) technical
assistance to Customs to introduce a simplified
documentation process, computerize customs processing
and train customs officers; (vi) addition of a technical
assistance and training coordinator to the Project
Coordination Unit; (vii) a development stuiy to review
the options for future port capacity expansion, including
a stuvy of the possible privatization of certain port
activities;   and  (viii)  consulting  services   for
supervision of civil works and detailed engineering.
Proiect Benefits         The project will benefit the entire economy of Tanzania
and Risks:               and its landlocked neighbors, through lower prices on
a wide variety of imported products and through increased
exports brought about by more competitive export prices.
Additionally, the introduction of a Corporate Financial
Strategy will enhance THA's position as the second
largest foreign exchange earner in the country, and also
make it the first Tanzanian parastatal in recent years
to provide a significant contribution to the general
revenue of the country and introduce a performance based
bonus scheme to provide greater incentives to its
workers. Possible risks include: (i) lower than expected



- ii -
traffic growth; and (ii) higher than targeted dwell time
for containers. The first risk is minimal. Conservative
assumptions have been used for traffic forecasts, and
growth of just over one-half of the projected rate would
still justify the investment.   If the targets for
container dwell time are not met, the port will, again,
experience severe congestion by mid-1990s. Howevver, THA
has already begun coordination of involved parties to
actively pursue policies which aim to reduce dwell time.
These activities will be supported by the project, in
particular by providing technical expertise and training
for customs to speed up documcnt processing and improve
its operating practices.
Economic Rate of Return:   202
Financial Rate of Return: 141
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 8149-TA
Maps                       IBRD Nos. 21936 and 21937



Estimated Costs                       Local              Foreign             Total
SSMillion
Port Container Terminal & Depots    4.3                   12.7               17.0
Copper Road                           0.6                  0.9                1.5
Berths 9, 10, 11                      2.1                  3.2                4.2
Lighterage Wharf Rehabilitation       t.9                  2.6                3.5
Belgian Wharf Rehabilitation          0.4                  1.1                1.5
Port Central Workshop                 0.3                  0.4                0.7
Kurasini Oil Jetty                    1.4                  7.6                9.0
Be_ths 1-8 Rehabilitation             3.5                  9.5               13.0
General Cargo Equipment               0.0                  4.0                4.0
Container Handling Equipment          0.0                 15.2               15.2
Office Equipment                      0.0                  1.0                1.0
Central Workshop Equipment            0.0                  2.0                2.0
Design and Supervision                0.6                  2.7                3.3
Port Development Study                0.2                  0.8                1.0
Workshop Study                        0.0                  0.2                0.2
Technical Assistance                  3.8                 15.2               19.0
Total Base Cost               17.0                  79.1               96.1
Physical Contingencies                1.5                  5.8                7.3
Price Contingencies                   3.3                 15.6               18.9
TOTAL COST              21.8                100.5              122.3
Financing Plan;
!DA                                   0.5                 36 5               37.0
FINNIDA                                -                  17.9               17.9
DANIDA                                 -                   4.2                4.2
NORAD                                  -                  11.5               11.5
Netherlands                            -                   5.4                5.4
SIDA                                   -                  17.5               17.5
THA                                  21.3                  7.5               28.8
TOTAL                21.8                100.5              122.3
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA Fs:      91    92      93      94      95     96      97
Annual           1.2   6.4   10.7    7.6    5.2    4.7    1.2
Cumulative       1.2   7.6   18.3   25.9   31.1   35.8   37.0



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT It
1. TRfNSPORT SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
A. Introduction
1.01.        In 1967, Tanzania's leadership introduced sweeping economic and
social cha;.ges and embarked on an era of socialism. The new priorities of the
country, as enunciated in the Arusha Declaration, were directed towards self-
reliance, development of a system of basic education, and broad-based rural
development. The public sector was viewed as the vanguard of development, with
public expenditure as the principal means of transforming the economy. This led,
in the late 1960s and early 1970s, to a rapid growth in the public sector
throughs (a) the nationalizatior. of large scale industries and the financial
system, the formation of Ujamaa (communal) villages, and the replacement of
farmers' cooper tives with state-run crop marketing authorities; (b) dramatic
increases in the provision of social services; and (c) expansion of centrally
managed activities.
1.02.       By the end of the 19708, the economy was faltering: industrial output
had begun to decline, agriculture was stagnating, while the fiscal situation
deteriorated sharply with deficits averaging about 16Z of Gross Domestic Product
(GDP). In agriculture, parastatal marketing monopolies dampened incentives for
farm  output  growtn,  and  involuntary  resettlement  disrupted  ptuductive
relationships in rural areas. In industry. inappropriate project designs and
a heavily protective environment resulted in an import dependent sector with,
in many instances, an inefficient production structure. By this time, it was
clear that the Government was no longer capable of financing the extensive
services which it had committed to delivering, and the poor performance of many
Government agencies constituted a bottleneck to economic recovery.
1.03.       The 1984/85 Budget represented a turning point, and provided the
first indication of a new pragmatism in the Government's economic management.
The Tanzanian Shilling (TSh) was devalued by one-third, parastatal subsidies were
cut, an import liberalization program was initiated through the implementation
of an "own-funds imports program', and restrictions on the movement of grain were
eased.   Positive responses to these measures encouraged the Government to
consider a more comprehensive and systematic policy reform program to deal with
the economic crisis, and to mobilize external support to bridge the expected
financing gap. In 1986 the Government launched the Economic Recovery Program
(ERP). The measures initiated at the time included: (a) significant exchange
rate adjustments, moving towards an equilibrium rate; (b) adjustments in interest
rates, aimed at achieving real positive rates; (c) increases in producer prices
in real terms for export crops; and (d) significant reduction in the number of
price-controlled  items.    These actions were  followed up  . th  (a)  trade
liberalization measures including export retention schemes and the Open General
License Facility (OGL); (b) gradual dismantling of administrative controls over
prices and distribution; and (c) progressive devaluation of the currency. The
economic response to these reforms was positive, with GDP growing at between 4



and 52 p.&., sufficient to enable per capita income and consumption to rise for
the first time in several years. Agricultural production, helI '1'v good weather
and stronger price signals, has increased substantially over the p_st two years.
Similarly, manufactured and other non-traditional exports, have increased by
nearly 601 over the same period.
1.04.       Unfortunately, although not unexpectedly, the recovery and the strong
jur4p in the level of economic activities have exposed how much the basic services
and infrastructure have deteriorated over the past decade and a half of economic
decline. The banking system, with the majority of its funds tied up in non-
performing loans to the Government and parastatals, is essentially bankrupt and
is incapable of providing fresh capital for new investments. Farmers responding
to strong price signals have seen their efforts frustrated by inadequate
processing facilities and marketing rigidities. Movement of goods and people
throughout the country is at a virtual standstill due to severe deterioration
in the country's transport network.   These and other factors have made it
difficult for the country to capitalize fully on the liberalization policy
adopted by the Government under the ERP. It is remarkable that, despite these
difficulties, the economy has still responded strongly to the liberalization and
adjustment efforts of the Government. How long such recovery can be sustained
depends heavily upon fundamental changes in the role of Government and how
quickly some of the physical and institutional issues can be addressed and
rectified. The challenge for policymakers in the next stage of the recovery
process is to address effectively the problems of the public sector, to lift the
burden of poorly performing state enterprises off the rconomy, to continue the
shift from direct controls on economic activity to indirect levers working
through macroeconomic policy and the price system, to remove Government from
businesses that can be effectively and commercially delivered by the private
sector, ad to Improve the effectiveness of Government programs in areas such
as physical and social infrastructure where the state is the main provider-
B.  Current State of the Transno-t Sector
1.05.       A well functioning transport system is crucial to the sustained
economic recovery of Tanzania. The main linkages between transport and economic
recovery are evident in four key areass (a) the size of the country, its
structure of production and its population distribution; (b) the cost to the
economy of an unreliable, deteriorated network; (c) the fiscal implications of
inefficient transport operations; and (d) the sector's importance as a major
foreign exchange earner.
1.06.       First, the pattern of settlement and economic activity in the country
gives transportation an extreordinarily strategic role in economic development.
Tanzania has a large territory (slightly smaller than France and Spain combined)
with a widely dispersed population, mainly around its geographic periphery.
Agriculture, accounting for 541 of GDP, is dominated by smallholders scattered
in small rural communities, while the major markets and the processing and
collection centers for crops, as well as the distribution points for agricultural
inputs and fuel, are concentrated in urban centers located at considerable
distances from each other and from the major coastal seaport of Dar es Salsam.
Exports are dominated by primary agricultural commodities of high bulk but low
I



- 3 -
value. Growth in agricultural output, which will constitute the primary basis
for growth in th. economy for the foreseeable future, is predicated on the
transport system being able to integrate efficiently the rural co&uunities with
the urban centers and facilitate reliable and cost-effective transport of export
crops from the major collection points to the port of Dar es Salaam. These two
roles have not been effectively performed by the transport system and, as
discussed in the next paragraph, the cost to the economy has been enormous.
1.07.       Second, Tan,ania's road infrastructure, which is crucial to the
linkage of rural communit.'es to the urban areas, has deteriorated markedly over
the last decade and a half and its coverage of rural areas is limited even by
regional standards.  The state of the roads, 70?  of which are impassable or
unmaintainable, imposes significant penalties on agricultural activity through
its effect on vehicle operating costs, delayed evacuation and damage to crops.
Losses imposed on the economy through higher vehicle costs alone are estimated
at up to US$150 million p.a., equivalent to about one-third of the country's
export earnings.  Tanzania's domestic railway system, which is strategically
located to serve most of the major urban centers, has been unable to meet the
demand for low-cost, long-distance transport of export crops and of critical
inputs such as oil and fertilizer in recent years, due to its poor operational
performance.   As a consequence, significant stockpiles of cotton - one of
Tanzania's major export crops - for which road transport is inappropriate on
competitive grounds, have built up over the last few years and a significant
proportion of the other export traffic, as well as bulk inputs, have been
diverted to roads. The total cost to the economy of stockholding and diversion
of traffic that an effectively performing railway would have been able to handle
is of the order of US$40 million p.a. For the ports, the long dwell time of
containers, caused by the inefficiency of operations as well as cumbersome
customs procedtires to clear the cargo, costs the economy about US$10 million
p.a. in working tapital costs and demurrage charges (assuming excess dwell time
is 20 days per imported container).   Based on these calculations,  it is
conceivable that the economy is losing nearly US$200 million p.a. in direct
economic costs due to the deteriorated transport infrastructure and its
inefficient operation. If the indirect costs such as loss of crop, theft, loss
of export market, spoilage, etc, due to the current transport problems are taken
into consideration, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to see how
Tanzanian goods could be competitive in the world market, or how the cost of
living could be held down. Without significant rehabilitation and actions to
restructure the modes of operation and maintenance of the roads and railways,
these costs and physical impediments will constitute a major barrier to sustained
economic recovery.
1.08.       Third, Tanzania's transport system i! characterized by a significant
degree of public sector participation.  The transport parastatals' financial
performance has deteriorated substantially in the last decade with most of them
making losses or generating low returns on their assets as a result of
inefficient utilization of capacity, high fixed costs and sub-economic prices.
In 1987, the combined losses of the transport parastatals amounted to US$55
million. Government budgetary support of the transport parastatals' cash flow
shortfall is small, as most of it is financed by short-term borrowings from the
state-owned financial system or deferred payments to suppliers. Although not
directly affecting the level rof the Government's current account deficit, this



mode of firaucing has significant and adverse implications on current levels of
domestic credit creation and the future level of Government budgetary support
to restructure unsustainable levels of short-term indebtedness to the banking
system and suppliers. Addressing the underlying causes of the parastatals' poor
financial performance will contribute to the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic
climate, which is a key basis for the incentive structures set in place by the
ERP. In order to address and reverse the deterioration of the road network, the
Government will need to increase significantly the budgetary allocation to road
maintenance and rehabilitation. This will require a substantial but attainable
turnaround in the performance of the parastatal transport sector to ensure that
the task is accomplished without increasing the overall claims of the sector on
Government revenues.
1.09.       Finally, the transport sector has an important role to play in the
generation of additional sources of foreign exchange for the country. Tanzania
offers the intrinsically lowest cost route to a seaport for Zambia, Rwanda, and
Burundi, largely because of the possibility of using the railways network for
most of the distance; and is an important alternative route for the transport
of Uganda's, Malawi's and eastern Zaire's foreign trade traffic, allowing them
to diversify their use of transport corridors. However, this potential has never
been fully tapped, largely because the cost advantages have been significantly
outweighed by the inefficiencies of the roads and railways leading to extensive
detention of traffic in transit. Improvements in the service reliability of the
railways and the operating capacity of the port of Dar es Salaam and a generally
more commercial orientation of financial management would allow Tanzania to
increase its net foreign currency earnings from the transport sector. Currently,
the port subsector is the second largest foreign exchange earner in the country
after coffee, earning more than US$36 million p.a. Potentially, the transport
sector could earn a total of between US$55 and 75 million p.a. (equivalent to
about 12-18Z of total export earnings) in foreign exchange if the system were
operated more effectively.
C. Government Obiectives and Policy In the Sector
1.10.       Given the critical state of the transport sector, the Government
callid a Transport Sector Donors' Conference in December 1987 in Arusha. At
the Conference, a draft National Transport Policy document was presented along
with a Conference document entitled "Programme for Transport Sector Recovery'
which outlined the basic policy, institutional changes and rehabilitation
requirements of the sector in order to reestablish the transport infrastructure
and services to cater to the requirements of the economy. As enunciated at the
Conference, the basic objective of the Government in the transport sector is to
generate immediate improvements in the supply of transport services in the first
instance, followed by a more sustained growth in the capacity and the volume of
services commensurate with the expansion taking place under ERP. As outlined
in the Conference document, sustained improvement in the delivery of transport
services will require major effort and change in the way transport has been
managed in the past. The basic reforms needed in the sector are outlined belowt
(i)   deteriorated  infrastructure  requires  a major  shift  in public
expenditure towards the transport sector, particularly for the road



-5 -
network.   Over the past decade and a half, there has been a
precipitous drop in the funds allocated for recurrent and development
funding for the sector. Tanzania spent, on average, only 7S of its
total public expenditures on transport, where 15 to 252 is normal
for countries with far better maintained transport networks;
(ii) a more flgxible and dynamic response to road infrastructure
development requires a major institutional change to move away from
the existing highly centralized administrative system to a more
decentralized system with greater delegation of authority;
(iii) to improve the financial and operational efficiency of transport
parastatals, commercially oriented pricing and management must be
adopted by all entities, including cost-based tariff setting (taking
into consideration proper depreciation of assets), bonuslincentive
schemes to reward good performance, and rigorous cost control
systems.   The enunciated policy of the Government is for all
parastatals to generate at least an operating surplus;
(iv) similar to the financial objectives for parastatals, cost recovery
for the road sector must be improved, i.e. the revenues generated
from the road sector should cover at least the recurrent and periodic
road maintenance cost;
(v)   to improve provision of road transport services, all administered
tariffs for trucking and passenger transport sector should be
removed;
(vi) to develop the local capacity in the transport sector more
vigorously, private sector development should be promoted in the
areas of civil works. engineering consultancy, mechanical services,
truck and passenger transportation, and air charters; and
(vii) to promote regional integration, customs procedures and trans.t
arrangements should be simplified to improve the ease with which
transit cargo can pass through Tanzania.
D. Strategv for Transport Sector Recovery
1.11.       To the Government's credit, and owing to its willingness to undertake
major reforms in the transport sector, the donor community responded positively
to the recovery program presented at the Trinsport Secto; Donors' Conference.
In partnership with the Bank, the Government has formulated three major programs
to address the shortcomings of the transport sector: (a) a proposed Integrated
Roads Project (FY90); (b) a proposed Port Modernization Project II (FY90); and
(c) a proposed Railway Restructuring Project (FY91).   With the majority of
required financing secured, the investments in the transport sector, supported
by Bank Group operations, will total about US$1,230 million over the next eight
to ten years.  The largest allocation is for the roads sector with US$935
million, followed by railways with US$200 million and US$96 million for the port
sector.    The  magnitude  of  investment  foreseen  is  consistent  with  the



recoumuendation of the Public Expenditure Review (May 1989 Report No. 7558-TA),
which suggests a major shift of public funds to the transport sector, increasing
to over 20S of the total development budget expenditure. The following sections
outline the general strategy of development for each of the subsectors as
formulated in the proposed projects.
1.12.       Roads.    The deterioration of the roads network has been caused
primarily bys (a) inadequate funding for road maintenance and diversion of scarce
funds to non-priority investments; (b) an inefficient institutional structure
which has three ministries and over 100 entities involved in road administration;
(c) a highly centralized and bureaucratic procurement and administrative decision
making process which stifles effective execution of programs; and (d) inadequate
technical capacity to carry out maintenance and manage contracts. Efforts to
install trunk road maintenance capacity under the Fourth and Fifth Highway
Projects (Cr. 507-TA and 876-TA) failed to develop any improvements in road
conditions, and road rehabilitation under the on-going Sixth Highway Project
has been extremely slow in starting, mainly because of the institutional weakness
of the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW) and the protracted procurement
process caused by outdated government regulations.
1.13.       The Government has recognized that a major restructuring of roads
administration is necessary if the road network is to be in good condition to
serve its economic purposes. The primary objective of the Government in the
subsector is to restore the country's essential roads and to develop
institutional capacity in MCW for their maintenance. The physical targets are
to restore the trunk road network to 701 in good condition by the mid-1990s and
the regional roads network to a similar condition by the year 2000.   The
institutional objective will be to transform MCW from a basically ablue collar'
construction oriented ministry to a ,white collar" administration/management
oriented ministry, with executive authority being delegated to MCW's 20 Regional
Engineer's Offices (REOs) for implementing road programs and maintenance.
1.14.       The proposed Integrated Roads Project (FY90) is the vehicle through
which the above noted objectives will be pursued. The following key actions
would be implemented under the proposed project: (a) road administration would
be reorganized to bring all roads essential to supporting the agricultural sector
under MCW; (b) funding for maintenance of trunk and regional roads would be
increased substantially, commensurate with full requirements; and (c) MCW
operations would be decentralized by providing greater executive authority to
its regional offices.   Concurrently, greater participation of the domestic
construction industry in road rehabilitation and maintenance would be encouraged
through expanding the training of local contractors initiated under the Sixth
Highway Project, and by limiting the growth of the Government's own force account
activities. The donor community is responding by pledging large funding levels
for road rehabilitation and by supporting the decentralization of road management
through direct assistance to the newly-created REOs. Already, the Government
has appointed a new Minister and Principal Secretary to inject leadership into
MCW, and has significantly increased MCW's road maintenance budget for FY1990.
The reorganization of road administration is being implemented, and a draft
National Construction Industry Policy, which will, inter alia, promote private
sector participation in road maintenance, is expected to be passed by the
Government shortly (condition of Credit effectiveness for the proposed Integrated



Roads Project).
115.       Road TransDort.   The trucking sector plays a major role in the
(omestic transport industry, carrying nearly 702 of the estimated 2.5 billion
tonne-km of freight movement within Tanzania.   The existing fleet size is
estimated to be about 14,000 trucks (over three-tonne capacity), of which 78S
is owned by the private sector, 4Z by the 12 Regional Tranaport Corporations
(RETCOs) and 182 by other public sector organizations (marketing boards,
cooperatives, etc.).  The main feature until 1984 was a chronic shortage of
replacement vehicles, spare parts, fuel and tires. Consequently, the vehicles
were aged with a very low availability rate. Fleet replacement was only about
42 p.a., inadequate under Tanzanian conditions, when over 152 would be optimal
because of the poor road conditions. Freight movement by road appears to have
declined by at least 2? p.a. since the mid-1970s, but as the overall level of
economic activity had stagnated, this did not result in persist6nt or widespread
capacity shortage. Between 1985 and 1988, the situation changed dramatically
with the revitalization of economic activity under the ERP.   Since the
introduction of the "own-funds imports program' and donor assistance for the
import support program, the sector is in the process of being revitalized to
cater to tne rapidly expanding demand.   The sector, however, continues to
experience major problems in meeting the rapidly growing agricultural production
and the economic  activities  in the rural areas.   Administratively,  the
Government, realizing the distortional impact of tight administrative controls,
has eliminated essentially all barriers to market entry and administratively-
set tariffs. The trucking business is now on an upswing, but will continue to
require external assistance for procurement of spare parts and replacement
trucks. The magnitude of the annual foreign exchange requirement is of the order
of US$80 million.
1.16.       Railways.   In the railways subsector, the Tanzania Zambia Railways
Authority (TAZARA) operates a service that is principally dedicated to Zambian
transit traffic, although it is increasingly catering to local traffic in the
southern part of Tanzania.  The performance of TAZARA in terms of freight
traneported has been good in spite of serious constraints on the availability
of its locomotive fleet. However, cost recovery is poor and TAZARA has been
unable to meet its debt-service obligations from its cash generation thereby
necessitating a recent restructuring of its capital structure.  TAZARA has
formulated a well-designed investment program to address the constraints on
efficient operations which has attracted considerable donor support.   The
effective haul capacity of the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC) -- which
serves the central and northern parts of the country as well as transit traffic
from Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire and Uganda -- has declined progressively from about
1.0 million tonnes of freight in the first year of its establishment in 1978 to
0.9 million tonnes in 1989, despite considerable additions to its asset base in
the intervening years. This decline has proved particularly serious in the last
three years with the pronounced upsurge in domestic agricultural production and
increased diversion of transit traffic from other littoral countries to Tanzania.
The decline in traffic moved has reflected (a) the poor availability of TRC's
assets as a result of limited access to spare parts, deficient maintenance
systems and skilled staff shortages; and (b) the poor utilization of assets when
made available caused largely by ineffective management of operations and the
unreliable condition of operational and infrastructural assets.  The chronic



- a -
underutilization of assets by TRC coupled with regulatory restrictions on its
ability to adjust its tariffs in line with costs or to control the large labor
component of its costs, has led to a worsening financial performance and a
massive erosion of its financial position. As a commercial enterprise, TRC is
currently a financially bankrupt entity. An Emergency Recovery Program for TRC
(EP) was launched in 1987 with financing from the Bank and donors to stem and
reverse the deterioration in TRC's performance.  The program, which is being
implemented, has so far succeeded in stabilizing TRC's performance. The Railways
Restructuring Project (FY91) currently under preparation, will address the
restructuring of TRC's organization and operating practices and systems, the
changes in the system of Government regulation of TRC and the investment
requirements that are necessary to enable it to cater fully and profitably to
the underlying demand for freight transport by rail.
1.17        Ports.   The port of Dar es Salaam is a major regional port serving
the neighboring landlocked countries of Zambia, Malawi, Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda,
and Zaire. The port throughput is the second largest on the eastern coast of
Africa after the port of Mombasa, and is the second largest earner of foreign
exchange in Tanzania after coffee. International traffic constitutes nearly 60Z
of the total traffic throughput, and the efficiency and cost effectiveness of
port operations is of paramount importance to its users. In order to modernize
the port of Dar es Salaam, a major program was started in 1984 under the Tanzania
Port Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1536-0-TA). The project aimed to (ia) expand
the container handling capacity of the port to meet the rapidly increasing
containerized traffic; (b) rehabilitate the general cargo berths; (c) improve
equipment maintenance; and (d) improve the management and skills level of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA). Since 1984, the traffic volume, which had
fallen continuously since the mid-1970s, began to recover at a rate of nearly
72 p.a. During the same period, THA's operating efficiency also showed gradual
improvements. However, it has become evident in the past two years that serious
bottlenecks have begun to develop.   First,  physically  (and perhaps most
seriously), the capacity of the newly constructed container terminal is
inadequate, with the demand already exceeding technical storage capacity by over
402. The second phase of terminal expansion must be started immediately if a
major disruption in traffic movement is to be avoided. Second, institutionally,
inefficient customs procedures, inter alia, have contributed to the excessive
congestion in the container terminal through an unacceptably high dwell time of
containers in the port.   Third, managerially, a shortage of trained middle
management and skilled workers continues to make management and operation of the
port difficult.   Better use of technical assistance and a more systematized
management information system is required to improve management of operations.
Fourth, operationally, equipment maintenance continues to be a major problem,
especially with regard to the availability of dry cargo handling equipment.
Fifth, financial management could be further improved to expand the profitability
of port operations.   And finally, a better incentive scheme is required to
improve output.
1.18        The capacity shortage of the container terminal is of a very serious
and imminent nature, requiring immediate action. The proposed Port Modernization
Project II (this project) was prepared by THA, the Bank and donors to address
the outstanding issues noted above.  The project, with an estimated cost of
US$122 million, will: (a) execute the second phase container terminal expansion



- 9 -
to handle 2.4 million tonnes annually (2001 expansion in terminal capacity);
(b) change the financial management of THA in order to allow THA to (a) repay
to the Government all debts incurred in the past, including grants and
(b) Introduce an incentive/bonus scheme for workers funded from its own profits;
(c) improve equipment availability; and (d) improve customs processing through
adopt'on of simplified documentation and training for the customs officers.
Given the structure of the project, if successfully implemented, THA would be
in a position to move expeditiously all cargo on demand, contribute between
US$25 and 50 million p.a. to the general revenues of the Government, continue
to be one of the largest earners of foreign exchange in the country (between
US$30 and 40 million p.a.), and provide an incentive/bonus scheme of up to 1001
of existing salaries to its workers which would improve morale and productivity.
Details of the project are provided in Chapter III.
1.19        Civil Aviation.    Given the substantial distance between major
population centers, aviation is an important means of transport in the country.
The available seat kilometers on Air Tanzania Corporation (ATC), the sole
provider of scheduled domestic services, has grown at an average of 162 p.a. from
about 83 million in 1977 to about 363 million in 1987.  The demand for ATC's
services is high with an average passenger load factor of 762 on all routes and
832 in the domestic market, often resulting in a high turnaway rate for
customers.   Despite this favorable demand for its services, ATC's financial
performance has been characterized by growing deficits: in 1986 its operating
deficit amounted to TSh 583 million (about US$17.8 million equivalent). ATC
faces perennial problems in acquiring minimum access to spare parts due to its
inability to generate sufficient foreign exchange to finance its own recurrent
requirements; it also has constraints on fleet utilization due to lack of proper
facilities (e.g. lack of night-landing facilities and poor maintenance of
runways). Furthermore, ATC is unable to train its staff properly due to lack
of foreign exchange for training abroad. Given these conditions, a systematic
assessment of ATC was carried out under a general civil aviation sector study
funded by the Irish Trust Fund, and an issues-oriented report "Air Tanzania
Corporation - Strategic Evaluation and Corporate Restructuring" carried out by
the Bank (Report No. 7618-TA Green Cover - April 1989), set a suitable strategy
for the sector both in terms of improvements to the financial performance of ATC,
improved cost recovery in the civil aviation sector in general, and a least cost
strategy to meet the apparent unsatisfied demand in air travel.
1.20        In  order  to  rectify  the  situation  and  to  implement  the
recommendations contained in the restructuring study, ATC has: (a) increased
fares by 100-150Z; (b) streamlined its operations through reorganization and
staff reduction; and (c) stopped operations on several uneconomic routes.
Overall, with the actions being taken, ATC is expected to cover its operating
cost by 1991. However, ATC has not as yet decided to implement a sale-leaseback
strategy for its current fleet of Boeings and Fokkers; nor has the Government
decided to inject fur-Is into the airline. One of these actions is mandatory if
ATC is to repay its current indebtedness (including to suppliers). In order to
assist ATC with management assistance and training, funds have been allocated
under the proposed Integrated Roads Project for use by ATC, as long as the key
recommendations of the Restructuring study have been implemented by negotiations.



- 10 -
E. Resource Mobilization and Cost Recoverv in the Transaort Sector
1.21.       As a follow-up to the Public Expenditure Review carried out in
November 1987, a Bank study on revenue collection and funding needs in the
transport sector was undertaken and presented to the Government in September
1988.   The objective of the study was to investigate (a) how the transport
sector, as a whole, including parastatals, was performing financially, and
(b) how the increased requirements for the roads sector could be financed. In
essence, to finance the massive rehabilitation program and the necessary increase
in the road maintenance budget, Tanzania needs to increase its budget allocation
for trunk and regional roads from the present 7Z of total public expenditure to
about 21? at a stabilized level.
1.22.       The study concludes that the overall revenue collected by the
Government through road user charges and charges on civil aviation activities
was TSh 4.9 billion (US$94.8 million equivalent) in 1986/87, accounting for about
15Z of the Government's total current revenue. On the other hand, the overall
expenditure for the road and civil aviation sector amounted to TSh 2.5 billion
(US$48.4 million equivalent), with a net contribution to general tax revenue of
TSh 2.4 billion (US$46.4 million equivalent). This contribution is roughly the
same as the total revenue raised from import duties in the same year and is
equivalent in size to about 26Z of the Government's current account deficit.
The net contribution made through the road user charges has, however, been
negated by the overall deficit of the public transport enterprises which amounted
to about TSh 2.8 billion (US$54.2 million equivalent). The existing financial
status of the transport sector, therefore, cannot accommodate the need to
increase the annual maintenance requirement from the current level of US$11
million to US$40 million, without adversely affecting resource allocation to
other sectors.
1.23.       The study, however, also concludes that the financial control of
road user revenue collection and road expenditures is weak and the tax structure
is too complicated for it to be effectively administered. The study estimates
that due to administrative weaknesses, about 40Z of the potential revenue is
either not collected or never reaches the Treasury. It recommends that financial
controls be strengthened, the structure of taxes be simplified and the present
road toll tax rates be replaced by a tax on motor vehicle fuels which would raise
their prices by 1.6? in real terms.   Since fuel prices in Tanzania are
significantly lower than those in neighboring countries (particularly Kenya),
which encourages smuggling that leads to a drain on foreign exchange, it is also
suggested that fuel prices additionally be raised by 7.5? p.a. in real terms for
each of the next four years. The aim of the tax would be to mobilize extra
revenues to support road maintenance and rehabilitation. Implementation of this
program would allow the increases in road expenditures to be met. Revenue would
rise under the proposed program to US$127 million p.a. to enable the road sub-
sector to continue making a substantial contribution to the general Government
revenue.



- 11 -
1.24.       An overall strategy for improving financial performance will requires
(a) institutional arrangements which provide incentives for revenue mobilization
and controlling costs (roads and civil aviation); (b) financial controls which
foster a commercial outlook and facilitate timely decisions on important
financial matters (in relation to MCW's control of road expenditures and
management of public transport enterprises); (c) a framework of financial and
performance targets which promotes market discipline and encourages optimum use
of existing assets; (d) introduction of appropriate monitoring mechanisms to
ensure that sector agencies meet establishee performance targets; and
(e) selection of appropriate price and fiscal instruments which discourage
avoidance/evasion and minimize leakages. The Government is currently reviewing
the various options open to it to generate sufficient revenues to finance the
massive increase in public funding for road maintenance and rehabilitation. In
addition to the above-mentioned study, a specific study of petroleum pricing is
being undertaken in connection with the preparation of the proposed Petroleum
Sector Rehabilitation Project (FY91).
1.25.        Apart from the resource mobilization program to be agreed with the
Government in terms of road user charges (at the negotiation of the Integrated
Roads Project), specific action programs are being prepared for each public
transport enterprise: (a) a Bank study on the financial performance of the civil
aviation sector and ATC has been completed and some of its recommendations are
already being implemented; (b) a Bank study on financial performance of the
Tanzania Harbours Authority has been completed and will be implemented under this
proposed Port Modernization Project II; and (c) a financial restructuring plan
has been formulated for TRC and will be implemented under the proposed Railways
Restructuring Project. If the respective programs are successfully implemented,
the overall effect would be: (a) ATC and TRC would begin to make modest operating
surpluses (i.e. elimination of US$10 million p.a. combined loss suffered by the
two parastatals in the past); and (b) THA would increase its profitability and
contribute between US$25 to 40 million p.a. to the general revenue of the
Government. The transport sector, therefore, would become a net contributor to
the general revenues of the Government (US$75 to 80 million p.a., combining the
THA contribution and the net contribution from the road user charges).
F. Previous: Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.26.       The Bank Group has extended credits and loans to help finance six
highway projects, one trucking project, one railways project and three port
projects, totaling US$272.6 million since Tanzania became a Bank Group member
in 1964.  During the earlier years of lending, the projects concentrated on
financing of construction and equipment. The focus later shifted to strengthen-
ing of local institutions with provisions for technical assistance and training,
particularly for road maintenance and road transportation. While experience with
the execution of physical components has generally been acceptable, the
objectives of technical assistance and training have been difficult to achieve
mainly because of: (a) delays in appointment of technical assist.nce staff;
(b) cultural and language adjustment problems of technical assistance staff; (c)
lack of effective administrative commitment by Government agencies; (d) lack of
suitable local counterparts; and (v) unrealistic targets.   A more detailed
assessment of past Bank involvement in the sector is given in Annex 1-1.



- 12 -
1.27.       These lessons have been confirmed by the eight Project Performance
Audit Reportsl, and have been highlighted in the comprehensive audit carried out
by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department on all Tanzania projects from 1964
to 1988. For the port sector, the main lesson has been the lack of institution
building  under  the  first  two  port projects.    Under  the  on--going Port
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1536-TA), a major component has been included to
assist THA in developing its institutional capability.   The shortcomings of
current assistance, however, have been (a) a lack of monitoring, coordination
and guidance of technical assistance by THA; and (b) delays in appointment of
local counterpart staff. These points have been discussed among TEA, donors and
IDA, and the necessary adjustments will be made under the proposed project (para
3.12).
G. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.28.       Since December 1987, when the Transport Sector Donors' Conference
was convened in Arusha, IDA has taken the lead in working with the Government
to bring together a comprehensive rehabilitation and restructuring program for
the transport sector of Tanzania. Nearly 20 donor agencies have mobilized over
US$1 billion in their resources to join Tanzania in implementing the ambitious
program. The large commitment by donors reflects not only the donor community's
understanding of the problems facing the sector, but is also a tribute to the
Government, which is undertaking difficult policy and institutional changes to
revitalize not only the transport sector, but the economy in general. What ID#.
has contributed is: (a) a vision of the future, of how the tran-port sector can
operate in the future if specific actions are taken to adjust the institutional
and policy framework under which the transport sector is managed; (b) the
technical expertise which has been brought to bear on the complex issues stifling
the existing system and which has recommended options on what and how the system
can be changed to improve the effectiveness of the Government's effort; and tc) a
change in the attitude of Government officials towards liberalization of
transport operations, manifested in the following policy changes: (i)
decentralization of decision making authority; (ii) expansion of private sector
involvement; (iii) encouragement to parastatals to operate strictly on commercial
merits; and (iv) less restrictive procurement and administrative practices. The
impetus to change, however, has come from Tanzania, and IDA's role has been
primarily in providing a nroad map' to attain the new objectives set by the
Goverment.
1.29.       The proposed project embodies the main principles of the transport
sector recovery program, and is geared towards expanding the capacity of Tanzania
Harbours Authority to meet the increasing volume of traffic expected in the
1990s. The rationale for IDA involvement is based not only on the lead it has
taken in producing a strategy to modernize and expand the port capacity, but also
the benefit which TEA and the Government derive from the technical expertise
which IDA can provide in developing the sector.
1 PPAR Noss 791 of June 26, 1975; 4029, 4030 and 4031 of June 30, 1982;
4533 of June 30, 1983; 6483 of November 7, 1986; 6938 of September 15, 1987;
and 7571 of December 30, 1988.



- 13 -
II. THE PORT SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01.       With the collapse of the East African Community in 1977,  the
Government of Tanzania established, by legislation, the Tanzania Harbours
Authority (THA) to develop, improve, maintain, operate and regulate the harbors
of Tanzania and also to construct and operate new ports as and when required.
THA is legally responsible for the four major ports of Dar es Salaam, Zanzibar,
Tanga and Mtvara as well as several minor ports. However, Zanzibar essentially
functions as a separate entity, albeit under the direction of THA, and its
accounts are separate from those of THA. The other three major ports function
as separate administrative and operational units managed by port managers, under
the supervisory control of the General Manager of THA.  The minor ports are
attached to one of the major ports for administrative and operational purposes,
depending on their location. Tanga and Mtwara handle only a limited amount of
traific (about 350,000 tonnes and 145,000 tonnes respectively, p.a.); the bulk
of the traffic is handled by the port of Dar es Salaam. Consequently, the staff
employed in the former two ports is small, being only 1,500 and 400 respectively.
Dar es Salaam currently employs about 6,550, of which 4,180 are in the operations
department.
2.02.       The port of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania's largest seaport, is served by
two rail systems connecting the Tanzanian hinterland and Zambia and a radiating
road network. The main port facilities consist of 11 berths totalling 2,013
meters in length built between 1956 and 1977. In the northern port area there
is a group of wharves for coasters, dhows and port service boats. The land area
behind the berth is restricted by a high natural embankment. Historically, the
port has evacuated and received most of its cargo by rail, hence the port lands
are partly taken up with separate rail sidings and distribution networks for the
TRC and TAZARA systems, which are of different gauge.
2.03.       Berths 1 to 3 in the port have traditionally handled the transit
traffic for ZBR (Zaire, Burundi and Rwanda) and thus the storage area behind
these berths is used for the storage of containers associated with that traffic.
Berths 4 to 8 serve dry bulk carriers, conventional cargo ships and Roll-On/Roll-
Off ships (ROIRO) carrying break-bulk and containerized cargo. The transit cargo
for Zambia and Malawi and domestic cargo transported by TAZARA and the TA-NZAM
highway are handled within these berths. The quay space between berths 6 and
7 is mainly allocated to RO/R0 vessels. The area between berths 1 to 8 is now
being rehabilitated under financing from the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA).  The work includes paving of the quay apron, the open storage
area anr. the main roads, and railway track restoration in the mid-port area.
Completion of this work is expected in mid-1990.
2.04.       Berths 9 to 11 and part of the back-up area were converted to a
container terminal under the ongoing Port Rehabilitation Project.  The total
quay length is 540 m which is enough to accommodate two container vessels of
1,500 TEU capacity. Two ship-to-shore gantry cranes (SSGs), five rubber-tired
gantries (RTGs) for container stacking and one rail-mounted gantry for



- 14 -
transshipment to railway wagons have commenced operation. Approximately half
cf the back-up area behind these barth3 was paved, creating storage capacity of
about 2,000 TEUs. The two inland container depots (ICD), at Kurasini and Ubungo,
function as the main area for stuffing and stripping of containers and have open
storage area capacities of 150 and 315 TEUs, respectively.
2.05.       In addition, the port of Dar es Salaam has (i) a bulk grain handling
facility on berth 4 and silos with 26,000 tonnes of storage capacity, financed
by the Netherlands (expected completion in December 1989); (ii) Kurasinl oil
jetty, located at the south end of the main berths, which handles bunkers and
pelroleum products, and was rehabilitated with funding from Norway (completed
in January 1989); and (iii) transit sheds totalling 81,040 sq.m of floor area
on the general cargo berths, with additional sheds at Kurassni and Ubungo ICDs.
B. Current Status and Issues
Past and Present Traffic
2.06.       The traffic throughput of Dar es Salaam port has been extremely
volatile during the past twelve years (Figure 2.1). Dry cargo declined by more
than a third betweern 1977 and 1983. The port regained a part of the lost traffic
thereafter, with the tra'fic growing at about 7Z p.a. between 1983 and 1988, as
the macroeconomic adjustmenats under the ERP were beginning to take effect. The
relaxation of import restrictions and the implementation of Open General Licenses
(OGL) along with the depreciation of real exchange rates have respectively helped
boost imports and exports. In 1988, the traffic level had recovered to nearly
2.1 million tonnes, or 80Z of the peak traffic level recorded in 1977.
Figure 21
Port of Dar es Salaam
Dry Cargo: Import/Export Trafflc
3
25Toa afi
4) 2
9
0.5
0
1076 1977 1978 1979 1960 1981 1962 1963 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988



- 15 -
2.07        The composition of trairic has also changed.  In the late 1970s and
early 1980s, combined Tanzanian and Zambian traffic accounted for nearly 902 of
the total throughput of the port. Since then, there has been a rapid increase
in traffic from other landlocked countries, witb Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi
traffic more than doubling since 1983. In 1988, Tanzanian traffic accounted for
412, Zambia 402, ZBR 142 and the remaining equally split between Malawi and
Uganda. The change in the composition
is due to li) the weak performance of
the Zambian economy, particularly in
declining exports; and (ii) increasing                       Figure 2.2
preference shown by ZBR and Uganda for                   ConttdfbPenbtration
using the port of Dar es Salaam,
instead of the port of Mombasa in
Kenya,   due  to  relatively  higher                                     .
operational efficiency and lower ocean g
freight cost to Dar es Salaam.
2.08        Container penetration has   g 
also been strong, with the proportion     
of dry cargo carried in containerized
form increasing from less than 1S in
1977, to 19Z in 1983, and 332 in 1988,
equivalent to 674,000 tonnes (Figure              Yg
2.2).  Imports and exports have con-                                      ie
tributed equally to the trend. 'Whereas              5 Container DOy Bulk Cargo
overall   dry   cargo   traffic   has
increased at about 72 p.a. since 1983,
container traffic has increased over
202 p.a. There are, however, significant differences in how containerization has
penetrated the different countries.  Nearly half of Tanzania and Uganda traffic
is now containerized, whereas ZBR and Malawi have containerized 30 to 40Z of
their traffic, with Zambia at only 162 of its traffic. The difference in the
pace of containerization is due mainly to (i) conditions of onward shipment (e.g.
lack of appropriate trucks or rail wagons for container transport); (ii) lack
of container handling facilities at inland transshipment points (for ZBR and
Uganda traffic); and (iii) slow introduction of container use (e.g. copper).
Annexes 2-1 to 2-5 provide details of historic traffic levels.
Current Operational Situation
2.09        Despite  substantial  operational  difficulties  caused  by  the
construction of the container terminal (from 1985 to 1989) and rehabilitation
of the general cargo terminal (since 1987), Dar es Salaam port has managed to
make significant improvements in its operational efficiency. Comparison of the
operational performance between 1981 and 1987 (Table 2.1) indicates the
following: (i) average cargo handled per gangshift improved substantially beyond
the target set under the Port Rehabilitation Project; (ii) average cargo handled
per ship-day improved beyond the target for break bulk cargo; (iii) very little
improvement for bagged cargo; and (iv) somewhat below the target improvement for
containers.   The substantial increase in gangshift productivity is somewhat
misleading due to the way in which TRA collects its statistical data, but



- 16 -
interviews with shipping agents and others indicate significant improvements
since the mid-1980s. For the ship-day productivity, the low improvements in
bagged cargo handling is due to the delay in completion of the bulk grain
handling and storage facilities. The facilities which were to be completed in
1987 will now only be completed by December 1989. Similarly for containers, the
container terminal and handling equipment were only handed over to THA Lor full
operation in early 1989. But the general conclusion is that the productivity
increases have been acceptable, particularly under the exceptional conditions
under which THA had to work during this period (nearly 302 of the port area was
under construction).
Table 2.1
Der as  im Porb
Der Care Producteltw Rates
(1)                        (2)                       (3)
Average                    Average                   Annual
Cargo/ongsehlft             Cargo/Shipday           Cargo Throughput
Actual SAR Target Actual    Actual SAR Target Actual   Actual SA TargetActual
1981    1088   1987         1981    1988    1987    1981   1968   1987
Break Bulk   48      SO    )          422     4S0    480 -  -                }
) 112                              } 1,650  1,740 } 1,490
Bagged Cargo  67     65 3s            718   2,400    000      }       .      }
Container    -       -                 5      800 200-800         160   810    600
TOTAL   N.A.    N.A.    N.A.      N.A.    N.A.  N.A.         1,710  2,850   2,090
2.10.       In addition to the above operational improvements,  significant
improvements were also made in overall staff productivity.   Continuing from
improvements over the 1968-1980 period, where dry cargo traffic nearly doubled
while the number of gangs increased by or.ly two-thirds, from 1980 to 1988, THA
reduced 3ta staff by 34? in the face of a 10? increase in traffic. The overall
productivity improvement during this period was an impressive 672, a result of
both the gang productivit- improvement seen in the general cargo operation, as
well as the continuing strong increase in containerization of cargo.
2.11.       Despite the operational improvements noted above,  the port is
beginning to experience some congestion and capacity constraints. First, for
the general cargo berths 1-8. congestion was beginning to be observed in 1988,
with berth occupancy over 85?.  In order to avoid further congestion, and reduce
ships' turnaround time, further improvement is required in cargo handling speed.
2.12.       Second, the port is also severely congested by containers.  The new
container terminal, which (with the 1CDs) provides a storage capacity for 2,507
TEUs, was handed over to THA in March 1989.  However, the number of loaded
containers on hand, averaging 3,560 in June 1989, has already exceeded capacity.
The excess containers are scattered throughout the port wherever space can be
found. Technically, if the average dwell time for loaded containers were at an



- 17 -
acceptable level of, say, 12 days (18 days for imports and 4 days for exports),
the existing terminal could hpndle a throughput of about 76,250 TEUs p.a., or
58Z more than the 1988 throughput of 48,152 TEUs. However, congestion is being
caused by the inordinately high average dwell time of import containers, which
was 37 days in July 1989 (albeit down from 37 days in June 1988).   The
extraordinarily high levels of 1988 were caused by implementation of a strict
(1002) customs verification procedure, which started in January 1988, and the
overall administrative inefficiency in processing the necessary documentation
for clearing the cargo from the port. Although the procedures were eased, and
the average dwell time has dropped, further reduction is required if the port
is to handle greater volumes of container traffic, or even the present volume
efficiently.
2.13.       Lastly. the availability of cargo handling equipment has fallen and
will become a major hindrance to cargo operation in the future. Owing to the
dilapidated central equipment workshop and the insufficient number of skilled
mechanics, the equipment availability level has been low: below 602 for both
forklifts and tractors. Training programs for mechanics are being started by
the Bandari college, and funds for equipment rehabilitation have been allocated
under the ongoing project. As for container terminal equipment, the equipment
is still relatively new and availability is at an acceptable level. However,
the training program for local mechanics has been slow in taking root and the
FINNIDA technical assistance is making a concerted effort to transfer the
necessary skills to the THA mechanics.
2.14.       Under the coordination of THA and the Bank, a Joint Donor Mid-Term
Port Review was carried out in May 1988 to review the implementation of the
ongoing project for the Dar es Salaam port and its impact on improving the
operation of the port. A comprehensive report was produced, reviewed by the
donor group and presented to a THA Port Donors' Conference in February 1989.
The results of the review highlighted the above-noted major shortcomings of the
ongoing operation and the constraints faced by THA in effectively operating the
newly-modernized Dar es Salaam port.
2.15.       The main conclusion of the Review, which has been confirmed by an
independent assessment of THA, is that despite moderate improvements in port
operational performance and the addition of equipment and terminal infrastructure
to begin a full container terminal operation, the port of Dar es Salaam is
experiencing a severe capacity constraint in the container storage area.
Furthermore, the port will face greater capacity constraints unless: (i) the
container terminal is expanded immediately; (ii) the operational efficiency of
dry cargo and container berths is further improved; and (iii) the dwell time of
containers is reduced to an acceptable level. The Review also recommended that
a Development Study be commissioned to study the options available for further
expansion in the mid-1990s in order to meet the forecast traffic for 1996 and
beyond.   The specific capacity constraints are presented in the following
sections, and a detailed analysis of operational capacity is given in Annex 2-6.



- 18 -
Putur(e Traffic and C apcity Constraint
2.16        Various assessments made by the Review mission, THA and the Bank,
indicate that Dar es Salaam port will handle about 2.6 million tonnes of dry
cargo by 1993.  This implies an increase of 262 over the five-year period,
corresponding to an average annual growth rate of 52. Although this growth rate
is lower than the 7? p.a. growth rate experienced between 1983 and 1988, it
compares well to the 4.6X p.a. growth of the economy forecast by various
macroeconomic assessments by the Bank.  During this period, rapid container
penetration is assumed to continue with about 55Z of the total traffic being
containerized. This implies that by 1993, 1.4 million tonnes will be in the form
of containers and the remaining 1.2 million tonnes in break bulk; i.e. there will
be a modest decline in non-containerized dry carga traffic with all the growth
being in the form of containerized traffic.  A detailed forecast is give in
Chapter IV.
2.17        The impact of the foreca,t demand on berth and port storage capacity,
as indicated in Figures 2.3s A to D, reveals major capacity constraints for the
port. The critical constraint is the storage capacity in the container terminal.
Other major constraints are the berth capacities at both the conventional and
container terminals, which can be removed by improving operational efficiency
and providing additional cargo handling equipment. The cumulative effect of the
three conRtraints, however, is that by not having sufficient container terminal
space, it not only limits the volume of container traffic which the port can
handle, but it effectivelys (a) lowers the total capacity of the port of Dar es
Salaam; (b) limits the growth of containerized traffic which is a cheaper form
of transport; (c) reduces the earning capacity of THA; and id) prevents THA frcm
capturing the full benefit of the modernization process which began in 1984.
The various constraints and their impact on the forecast traffic are analyzed
in the following sections (paras 2.18 to 2.22).
2.18        As   indicated,   the   most               Figure 2.3
critical  constraint  Is  the  container            Dar es Salaam Pot
storage capacity. The forecast container Demand Forecast and Port Capacity  1993
traffic in 1993 is 1.4 million tonnes, or
103,000 loaded TEUs p.a.   As shown in
Figure 2.3(A), with the current terminal                      FigureA
storage  capacity  of  2,507  TEU  and                  cwIIntO9s.scapa.tI
assuming that the average dwell time for       .                d"-
loaded imports can be reduced from the
current level of 37 to 33 days, the
terminal capacity is only one half of the
expected traffic demand. On an emergency
basis, additional terminal capacity of
700 TEUs is being constructed behind           X
berths 7 and 8 with SIDA financing to
alleviate the expected congestion.  Even
with this addition, it is clear that a          e_.________1_'_*_" __
shortfall  of nearly  402  of  forecast
demand can be expected.  The result of                                                      r
such a mismatch in demand and capacity is that:
(i) container traffic will be capped at



- 19 
64,700  loaded TEUs  or 880,000  tonnes                 OodanwapaeIty
p.a.:   (ii) all  additional  container
traffic will  then have  to be  routed
through berths 1-8 as break-bulk cargo
with the additional expense  involved;
(iii) ships' turnaround time will rise
dramatically; and  (iv)  the total dry   p
cargo capacity of Dar es Salaam port will
be  limited,  leading  to  diversion  of
traffic to other ports, such as Mombasa,
with loss of revenue for THA.  Expansion
of the container terminal and paving for          -       _ _ _            _
additional storage areas at the two ICDs         g         O   Ea
have  been  included  in  the  proposed                       FueC
project (para 3.03, A.1 and A.2).            U           Gawucaw BeehcapaLc
2.19        The major constraint on the
containtr berth capacity is indicated in 2
Figure  2.3(B).    This  constraint  is
determined not by the berth itself, but
by the number of Ship-to-Shore Gantry  E..
Cranes  CSSGs)  to handle  the  forecast    ,
container throughput (loaded and empties)
of 122,000 TEUs  in 1993.   Given the
existing operational speed of SSGs of 16
containers per hour (and assuming 751
availability,  602 berth occupancy and    o
ship's gear handling rate of 5 containers              Do 0 U      w-u->n *
per hour), THA's container berth capacity                     P  D
is 102,000 TEUs p.a.  With productivity                 oJecarostmaepcax
improvement up to 20 containers per hour a
and availability up to 802, which are
reasonable standards. the terminal will    2 _
be able to handle a throughput of about
129,000 TEUs p.a., matching the forecast
demand.     Any  further  increase  in
container    traffic    would    require
installation  of  an  additional   SSG    1 _
(Sections  II  and  VI  of  Annex  2-6).
Provision for an additional SSG and RTGs   0   -   I                    ::-
hi.ve  been  included  in  the  proposed
project (para 3.03, B.2 and B.3).
C3  1O1 a**
2.20        The major constraint in the
general cargo berth capacity is indicated in Figure 2.3(C), where at 802 berth
occupancy, the forecast demand of 1.2 million tonnes nearly matches existing
capacity. With productivity improvements from the existing 582 tonnes/berth-
day to 971 tonneslberth-day (with the project), it is possible to nearly double
the berth capacity to 2.3 million tonnes. Given that: (i) the rehabilitation
of general cargo berth will-be completed by mid-1990; (ii) the bulk grain
handling facility will be fully operational by the end of 1989; (iii) the
incentive scheme will be in place by 1990-91; and (iv) the general cargo



- 20 -
equipment included in the project will be available, the target productivity
level of 971 tonnes/berth-day should be achievable.  Failure to achieve the
target, however, would translate directly into ships' waiting time and hence
higher costs for port users. Requirements for additional general cargo equipment
have been included in the proposed project (para 3.03, B.1).
2.21        Fiaure 2.3 (D) indicates that storage capacity for general cargo is
quite comfortable, given that cargo dwell time can be kept below the current
average of 13 days (Annex 2-6, Section IV).
2.22        The conclusions which can be drawn from the above assessment are as
follows: (i) there is a serious shortage of container storage capacity and (a)
the terminal area for container storage must be expanded immediately to meet
the forecast demand for 1993, and (bj a major effort is required to reduce the
container dwell time; (ii) urgent action must be taken to improve productivity
further, particularly in general cargo and container berth operations, to
maximize the output of existing facilities; (iii) an additional SSG will be
required in 1992-93 to expand the container berth capacity; and (iv) further
study must be carried out to review options available for expatision of berth
capacity for general cargo and storage capacity for containerized cargo to meet
the demand beyond 1993.
C. Strategy for Operational ImProvements
General
2.23        Given the current situation at the port of Dar es Salaam, if no
action is taken to expand the port capacity and improve cargo handling
efficiency, the traffic through the port would most likely stagnate at about 2.7
million tonnes of dry cargo (900,000 tonnes of container cargo and 1.8 million
tonnes of break bulk cargo). This traffic level is forecast to be reached by
1994. Any further increase in traffic would result in rapidly rising ships'
waiting time and the diversion of large volumes of traffic to neighboring ports.
The basic strategy to tackle the constraint faced by Dar es Salaam port has been
discussed extensively with THA and the donors involved in assisting the port
subsector, and the details are presented below.
Container Terminal Capacity Expansion
2.24        Figure 2.4 provides a comparison between the forecast growth in
container storage requirements and the proposed capacity expansion under the
project. Demand curves A and B, respectively, indicate the terminal capacity
required with and without a reduction in the dwell time of containers. Without
a major redu^tion in container dwell time, the demand for container storage area
will outstrip the capacity even with a doubling of the terminal size. With
significant reduction, the capacity requirement is within the proposed expansion
until 1997; thereafter, container dwell time is assumed to have reached its
lowest reasonable level, and any increase in container traffic will be directly
translated into requirements for larger terminal capacity.



- 21 -
Figure 2.4
Dar es Balam Port
Container Traftc Growth and Termnal Capcty
8
7
t6-/
1999  19 O   1991  1992 1Q        Q3 1Q94 1m5   19   199?
Demand []Currerntcapacit y Required Exzar.sion
2.25t      The underlying assumption of demand curve A in Figure 2.4 is that
the container dwell time will be progressively reduced to 10 days, less than half
the current level, by 1995 (an acceptable average dwell time for a port newly
involved in container operations). Therefore, the dwell time of containers must
be reduced significantly; target levels are illustrated in Fianre 2.5. If these
reductions in dwell time are not made, the effective demand on storage capacity
is larger, exceeding the planned termeinal expansion (demand curve B of Fi_ure
2.4).
FIgure 2.6
Dar es Salaam Port
Targeted Conainer Dwen Time Reduction
3~~~3
15
1 9 S 9   .. .  . . .  . . . .
..0 ) 10.. .   . .    E   ...... .. ..
im Mtui.. .. .. .  C. .
. . . .   . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .



- 22 -
2.26.       The main causes behind the high container dwell time for import
containers, ranked in order of priority, are: (i) cumbersome customs clearance
process (including complicated documentation, opaque regulations, slow document
processing, 1002 verification policy and shortage of trained customs officers);
(ii) importers' shortage of funds to pay duties and sales tax and often late
notification of cargo arrival by NASACO, the state-owned ships' agent; (iii) slow
onward shipment by rail, including lack of appropriate wagons to carry
containers; and (iv) delays in cargo handling by TEA, including searching for
specific containers (caused by a shortage of proper equipment and lack of a
container tracking system).
2.27.       In an endeavor to reduce the dwell time of loaded containers to 12
days by 1993 (18 days for imports and 4 days for exports), a plan of action has
been agreed with the Ministry of Finance (including Customs) and THA.  In
conjunction vith the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD),
the Association will provide assistance to Customs, contingent upon certain
policy changes. The assistance has five components: (i) help in the introduction
and refinement of a simplified documentation system; (ii) training in basic
customs techniques; (iii) long-term skill development of customs officials;
(iv) essential hardware items; and (v) subject to the Government's decision to
adopt ASYCUDA (the computerized system for customs administration developed by
UNCTAD), the hardware required to install it. In addition, assistance will be
given to TANPRO, the Tanzania Trade Facilitation Council, to strengthen its
institutional framework and help it in its efforts to introduce simplified
customs documentation. The policy changes are: (a) more vigorous auctioning of
unclaimed containers (at least three auctions per month); (b) verification of
containers to be conducted on a sampling basis (no more than one in three); (c)
transit goods to be handled in a streamlined fashion; and (d) positive advocacy
of parastatals' use of customs bonded warehouses outside the port. These changes
are currently being undertaken. Technical assistance and hardware required to
achieve the improvements in container dwell time have been included in the
proposed project (para 3.03, D.3).
General Carto and Container Berth Capacity Expansion
2.28.       Expanding the berth capacity will be achieved mainly through
improvements in operating performance: namely in the areas of higher berth and
gang productivities.   The forecast traffic growth over the next few years
dictates a substantially faster improvement in the operating performance than
has been achieved by THA in the past. The following areas have been targeted
for changes ti) introduction of a performance based bonus scheme to provide
incentives foz THA's workers; and (ii) improvement in equipment availability
through rehabilitation of the central workshop, intensive training of local
mechanics and procurement of additional cargo handling equipment.   Specific
operational performance and equipment availability targets which are required
to enhance the port's productivity have been agreed with THA and these are
detailed in Annex 2-6.
2.29.       In terms of improving worker productivity, incentive schemes have
proven effective at the port of Dar es Salaam. An informal system of incentives,
paid for by the users of the port, has been used from time to time in the past
with noticeable success in improving the speed of cargo handling. Given that



- 23 -
THA is financially capable of funding such a scheme, a detailed productivity
based incentive scheme will be introduceds daily for stevedores and equipment
operators and annually for administrative and other operations staff. Detailed
performance contracts already exist between various departments and the General
Manager. These, plus specific operating targets, will be used as a basis for
evaluation of worker performance and for the amount of funds to be allocated for
the bonus scheme. During negotiations, it was agreed, as conditions of Credit
effectiveness, that THA would carry out a thorough census of its workforce and
would provide the Association with the report and recommendations of its study
on the operational guidelines for the scheme. Furthermore, it was agreed that
the scheme would be instituted by October 1, 1990 at the latest.
2.30        Equipment  availability  is  essential  to  increase  operational
productivity. In this regard, the central workshop, which is in a dilapidated
condition, will be rehabilitated under the project, the training program for
local mechanics will be expanded, and additional equipment will be procured.
Apart from the lack of facilities, skilled mechanics are in high demand in
Tanzania, and it is difficult both to find experienced mechanics and to retain
mechanics who have been trained.  To help combat this problem, the training
program will be intensified, through on-the-job training at the port and class
room training at the Bandari College which is being supported under the ongoing
port project; and an incentive scheme, as noted above, will be introduced. The
possibility of achieving further improvements in productivity and in equipment
maintenance through privatization will be considered in the Port Development
Study. In addition, new equipment will be procured: replacements in the case
of general cargo handling equipment and additional equipment in the case of the
container terminal operation. Detailed justification for both types of equipment
is given in Annex 2-6.  For the procurement of the more expensive container
terminal equipment (an SSG and RTGs), the funding agencies (DANIDA and FINNIDA)
and THA have agreed on the specific level of container traffic which would
trigger the process of procuring the equipment.   Renovation of the central
workshop has been included in the proposed project (para 3.03, A.6).
2.31        If the various actions noted above are successful in achieving their
objectives, there will effectively be a substantial expansion in the throughput
capacity of the port of Dar es Salaam.  Based on the improvements described
above, the capacity of the port would increase to about 4.8 million tonnes of
dry cargo (2.3 million for break bulk and 2.5 million for container cargo),
doubling the current throughput. The requirement for further capacity expansion
will most likely be deferred to the mid-to-late 1990s.
Institutional and Manpower Development
2.32        Given the rapid changes in international shipping and cargo handling
technologies, and the development of a modern container terminal with
sophisticated equipment, THA's operational management must make appropriate
adjustments to meet the new conditions. One of the most prominent shortcomings
of past assistance to THA has been the lack of attention paid to developing the
manpower capacity of the port authority, both in terms of management skills and
skills of various levels of workers. Under the ongoing project, the situation
was reversed with a substantial increase in the technical assistance and training



- 24 -
(TAIT) program. At present, the TA/T program provides some 2,073 man-months of
TA and 60 man-months of training at a cost of over US$25 million. By January
1989, about 775 man-months had been used (see Annex 3-1A). Substantial efforts
were made by THA and donors to coordinate the various technical assistance
activities but these efforts were not always successful, thus resulting in the
overlapping of certain activities while others remained non-active. Also, THA
encountered problems in identifying and allocating appropriate counterparts,
often resulting in a waste of TA resources.
2.33        Based on the Mid-Term Review's evaluation, THA management has focused
more on closely coordinating the activities of TA, and on monitoring the impact
of the assistance. Also, during the past year, THA has put forward its own
requirements for consideratton by donors for funding. The main shift in emphasis
has been: (i) a reduction in technical assistance for equipment operator training
(the program has gone very well and the local operators are fully qualified to
operate the equipment); (ii) closer monitoring of mechanic training, particularly
for container handling equipment; and (iii) the addition of TA for headquarters
(middle and upper management), particularly in the areas of procurement,
accounting, management information systems, and planning. THA has also decided
to add a TA/T Coordinator in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to monitor the
effectiveness of the TA/T program. Based on discussions with donors, the TAIT
program has been adjusted to include 710 additional man-months of technical
assistance and 50 man-months of training under the proposed project (para 3.03,
D.1 and D.2).
D. Strategy for Improved Financial ManaRement
2.34        THA's overall financial structure, as one of the few parastatals
which is profitable in Tanzania, is satisfactory. Operating surplus, expressed
in current US Dollar terms, has multiplied by six over the last five years (US$6
million in 1982/83; US$33 million in 1987188), although this is largely due to
favorable exchange rate movements and external assistance passed on as grants.
The project aims to transform THA from being an adequately managed parastatal,
shielded by its strong financial health from the need to seek efficiency gains,
into an efficient, commercially-oriented organization. The overall "Corporate
Financial Strategy" for THA, which has been agreed between THA and IDA, and
approved by the Board of THA and the Government, is the means by which this
transformation can take place.  The strategy includes the following changes:
(i) THA to repay to the Government all donor grants (and IDA Credits) at 11?
interest, retroactive to all grants received after creation of THA; (ii) THA's
debt-to-equity ratio to be kept below 60:40; (iii) fixed assets to be revalued
so as to depreciate the asset base properly; (iv) a dividend policy to be adopted
(50Z of net profit to the Government, given certain specified conditions); (v) a
well funded and rigorously administered productivity incentive scheme to be
introduced (up to 10O of existing salaries and other remuneration); (vi) short
term funds to be invested in higher-yielding assets; and (vii) the tariff
structure to be used more actively to influence the behavior of port users.
2.35        The strategy will bring financial discipline to bear on THA, and will
force management to operate the port in a purely commercial manner. Although
THA's Finance Department has suffered recently due to loss of qualified staff
(accountants and financial specialists carry a premium in Tanzania), the



- 25-
financial management system, which has been developed over the years, is well
established and sound enough to form the basis of the new strategy. A financial
forecast based on the above criteria indicates that THA would be in a position
to pay about US$25 million p.a. to the general revenues of the Ministry of
Finance beginning in 1990/91, increasing to more than US$40 million p.a. by
1996197.  THA would be the first parastatal in Tanzania to have developed a
comprehensive financial management strategy, to repay all debts to the
Government, and to set aside sufficient funds to institute an incentive scheme.
As such, it would be the role model for othez Tanzanian parastatals seeking to
establish commercial management practices. As the detailed analysis presented
in Chapter V indicates, the strategy will require that THA plan its investments
prudently and limit its expenditure within its financial capacity. As an added
precaution, it was agreed with THA at negotiations that all investments larger
than US$2 million for civil works and US$500,000 for equipment would be
undertaken only after consultation with IDt., and that the annual financial plan
would be jointly reviewed by IDA and THA by March 31 of each year before being
effected. The Corporate Finance Strategy, which was E.rmulated by THA (with
assistance from IDA) has been approved by THA management, its Board, MCW and the
Ministry of Finance, and is now in effect. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that no material changes would be made in THA's Corporate Financial
Strategy without prior agreement with IDA, including the commitment to repay.
according to an agreed schedule, the principal and interest due on all debts to
the Government.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
3.01        The main objective of the proposed project is to expand the physical,
managerial and operational capabilities of THA to meet the traffic from Tanzania
and its neighboring landlocked countries expected in the 1990s. Without the
project, the Dar es Salaam port will reach full capacity by 1994 and incremental
traffic increase thereafter will result in diversion of landlocked countries'
transit traffic to longer and more costly routes. In particular, the project
aims to: (i) execute the second phase container terminal expansion to handle 2.4
million tonnes of dry cargo p.a. (200Z expansion of the terminal storage
capacity); (ii) enhance the operational, administrative and managerial capacity
of THA to manage the modern container terminal operations; (iii) improve THA's
capacity to maintain and operate cargo handling equipment through institutional
support as well as development of a central workshop; (iv) rationalize the
financial management of THA to enhance its revenue earning capacity as well as
to strengthen the Authority's commercially-oriented management discipline; (v)
carry out a development study to determine the next stage of port expansion
requirement; and (vi) establish a computer-based management information system
to improve management control and decisions. The physical and the operational
improvements to be made under the project will improve the overall capacity of
the port to handle nearly 802 more cargo than under the current conditions, and
will address the urgent capacity requirements of the port up to the mid-1990s.
3.02.       In general, the project will contribute to the important objective



- 26 -
of developing improved transport links for the neighboring landlocked countries,
thus contributing to reducing the cost and improving the efficiency of their
overseas trade activities. As one of the primary ports on the eastern coast of
Africa, the expansion of capacity and improvement of operating efficiency at the
port of Dar es Salaam will contribute to the primary goals of regional
organizations such as the Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
(SADCC), the Economic Community of Africa (ECA) and the Preferential Trade Area
(PTA).
B. Project Sco.e
3.03.       To realize the above objectives, the project will provide financial
assistance for the following components:
Civil Works
A.1  Port Container Tenninal and Inland Depotss   doubling the port's
storage capacity for loaded containers and completion of inland
depots at Kurasini and Ubungo;
A.2  Copper Road:  construction of port access road (2.5 km) to enable
direct access from the port to the inland terminals of Kurasini,
ZAMCARGO and Malawi Cargo Center;
A.3  Berth Repairs  repair of corroded and damaged concrece piles on
berths 9, 10 and 11, and installation of a new fender system;
A.4  Lighterage Wharf Paving and Utilities: paving for additional storage
of empty containers and dry bulk cargo;
A.5  Belgian Wharf Rehabilitation:  rehabilitation of piles and fender
system;
A.6  Port Central Workshop:  rehabilitation of existing structures;
A.7  Kurasini Oil Jetty (KOJ) Strengthenings  upgrading to accommodate
larger oil tankers;
A.8  Berth 1-8 Rehabilitations second phase of the general cargo terminal
rehabilitation;
Equipment
B.1  General Cargo Equipmentt forklift trucks, and mobile cranes;
B.2  Container Tetminal Equipment:   rubber tired gantries, tractors,
trailers and forklift trucks;
B.3  Ship-to-Shore Gantry Crane (SSG)s  one additional SSG to increase
container berth capacity;



- 27 -
B.4  Office Equipment:  computers, copying, telex and facsimile machines;
B.5  Central Workshop Equipment:  acquisition and installation of tools
and equipment for the Central Workshop;
Engineering Services and Studies
C.l - C.7   Design and Supervision: design and supervision of civil works
A.l through A.7:
C.8  Port Development Studys  study to determine the various options
available for future expansion of port capecity;
C.9  Central Workshop Study:  study to determine the design and oneration
of the Central Workshop;
Institutional Development
D.1  Project Coordination Units  continued assistance to staff the PCU,
with addition of a Technical Assistance ard Training Coordinator;
D.2  Management Technical Assistance: provision of management assistance
to the middle and upper management at THA headquarters, training of
mechanics for the central workshop, and a computer and data
specialist to develop a management information system;
D.3  Technical Assistance to Customs:  training of customs officials in
customs regulation and procedures, use of computers and introduction
of simplified documentation for customs declaration.
C. Detailed Proiect Description
Civil Works
3.04        The -main civil works component comprises the expansion of the
container terminal within the port area and completion of the two ICDs (Ubungo
and Kurasini). For the port container terminal, an additional two and a half
rows of container stacking area are to be constructed at the land side of the
newly-completed stack area behind berths 9 to 11. For customs verification and
the storage of empty containers, two fringe areas along the stacking area will
also be paved. The additional storage capacity obtained in the port area is
2,582 TEUs for loaded containers and 200 TEUs for empty containers. The railway
tracks in the mid port will be removed and the port access road (Copper road)
for transport of goods to and from the nearby inland depots (Kurasini, ZAMCARGO
and Malawi Cargo Center) will be relocated along the railway tracks in the
container railway terminal. Additionally, the corroded reinforced concrete piles
under berths 9, 10 and 11 will be repaired and a fender system suitable for
larger container ships will be installed. At the Kurasini ICD, the railway
access to TAZARA, additional paved area for empty container storage (700 TEUs)
and a work shop building will be constructed. At the Ubungo ICD, existing area
for container storage will be repaved.



- 28 -
3.05        To create additional storage area in the port for empty containers
and dry bulk cargo, the Lighterage Wharf will be paved and the piles and th-e
fender system of the Belgian Wharf will be rehabilitated.  The Port Central
Workshop, which will become the main workshop for heavy repairs and maintenance
of general cargo equipment, will be rehabilitated. Rehabilitation of the general
cargo Berths 1-8 will continue under the second phase program financed by SIDA.
3.06        Since the completion of KOJ rehabilitation under the ongoing project,
the size of petroleum tankers calling at the port of Dar es Salaam has increased
substantially. The average size of tankers is now beyond the strength of KOJ
to accommodate, and is becoming a major hazard.  Strengthening of KOJ will
include installation of berthing and mooring dolphins, provision of fire fighting
equipment for tug boats, a waste oil reception facility and a oil pollution
control facility.
Equipment
3.07        Given the increasing traffic through the port of Dar es Salaam,
availability of equipment will have a major impact on the operating efficiency
of the port. Although the forecast for break bulk traffic indicates a declining
trend, the existing equipment for dry bulk cargo handling is in a dilapidated
condition and will need to be replaced. The container handling equipment, on
the other hand, is new and in good working condition, but requires expansion in
its fleet to service the substantial increase in container traffic forecast
during the project period. For the major pieces of equipment, RTGs and an SSG,
it has been agreed among THA, DANIDA and FINNIDA that the procurement of this
equipment will commence once the container traffic level reaches a specific
volume (94,000 TEUs p.a.).   The number and types of equipment, along with
technical justification of their requirement, and the target productivity levels
of each type of equipment have been agreed with THA (Annex 2-6).
3.08        Office equipment, such as computers, and copying, telex and facsimile
machines will be procured to improve office productivity. The personal computers
will be vital for the development of a management information system,
computerizing various port management systems, including procurement, statistics
and operational performance.   Additionally,  the central workshop will be
installed with new equipment and tools.
Enjtneering Services and Studies
3.09        Given the forecast of traffic through the port of Da- es Salaam,
THA will need to consider further expansion of port capacity to meet the demand
expected towards mid-to-end 1990s. To identify and analyze the various options
available and the associated cost, consulting services will be engaged to carry
out a master plan study for the next stage of port development. About 83 man-
months is estimated for the study.
3.10        The Port Central Workshop is in a dilapidated condition and is
seriously affecting the equipment maintenance activities and the availability
of equipment. About 17 man-months of consulting services will be engaged to
review the role of the Central Workshop and the associated facility required to
carry out proper maintenance of equipment. The consulting services will include



a study of central workshop function, required facilities and the detailed
engineering and design of the recommended facilities.
3.11        Consulting  services  will  also  be  engaged  for  designing  and
supervising construction work under the project (para 3.03, C.1 to C.7).
Institutional Development
3.12        Consulting services will be engaged for the purposes of improving
the operational and port management skills of THA as well as to expand the
capabilities of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).  Currently, the funding
for PCU is met by contribution from various donors assisting THA.   This
arrangement will continue under the proposed project. In addition to the current
staffing, a Technical Assistance and Training Coordinator will be engaged to
assist THA in monitoring the effectiveness of the TA/T program.  In terms of
developing the institutional capacity of THA, a substantial amount of technical
assistance is already being provided by donors in the areas of port operation,
container terminal management, equipment operation and maintenance of container
handling equipment.   Strong results have been seen in the areas of operator
training and container terminal operation. The areas which will be supported
under this project are (i) development of middle and upper management skills;
(ii) training of mechanics for general cargo handling equipment; and
(iii) development of a reliable statistical gathering process and management
information systems. A significant amount of computer usage will be introduced
to improve timeliners and reliability of data collection. About 1,515 man-months
of technical assistance and training has been included in the project (includes
extension of on-going assistance program to reflect the totality of T.A. being
made available to THA). Details of the current TA/T program (para 2.32) and the
assistance proposed under this project are outlined in Annexes 3-1(A) and 3-
1(B), respectively. A summary of IDA-funded technical assistance and training,
(486 man-months) is given in Annex 3-2.
3.13        In addition to assisting THA, IDA will fund a program begun by UNCTAD
to improve and streamline customs procedures, and to assist TANPRO (under the
Tanzania Board of External Trade) in introducing simplified documentation for
import/export activities (para 4.11).
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
3.14        Detailed cost estimates for the Port Container Terminal and Copper
Road have been completed and the detailed engineering design is being carried
*ut by Finnish and U.K. consultants with FINNIDA funding.   Engineering is
expected to be completed by December 1989. Preliminary engineering design for
Berth Repair, Lighterage Wharf Paving and Belgian Wharf Rehabilitation have been
completed and detailed costs and engineering will be carried out by funds from
respective donors funding the components.   A study for the facility and
operational requirement of the Port Central Workshop is currently being
undertaken by Finnish consultants funded by FINNIDA, and the detailed engineering
design will be substantially completed by end-1989.   KOJ strengthening will
require a short technical study to determine the feasibility of investment and
the most economic solution to the technical problem at hand. The KOJ study will
be completed by late-1990 and the component will be appraised by NORAD at that



point. Draft terms of reference for the Port Development Study were agreed with
THA at negotiations (Annex 3-3). Furthermore, it was agreed that the study would
be completed and the recomnended development plan submitted for IDA review by
June 30, 1992. Engineering design and detailed costs for the second phase of
berth 1-8 rehabilitation have been completed.
E. Cost Estimates
3.15        The  total  project  cost,  including  contingency  allowances,  is
estimated at TSh 23.245 million or US$S22.3 million of which US$100.5 million
(82X) would be the f,reign exchange component (Table 3.1). Total cost includes:
(a) physical contingencies of 10 of base cost on all civil work items and 5Z
on equipment and consulting services; and (b) price contingencies amounting to
about 18I of base costs plus ph.vsical contingencies on all items.   Price
contingencies are based on estimated foreign inflation of 4.9.2 p.a. until 1995
and 3.6 Z thereafter and have been applied to the foreign and local components.
It is assimed that any persistent divergence between local and foreign cost
escalation will be corrected by exchange rate adjustments.  Taxes and duties
amount to about US$8.6 million or about 7X of total project cost.
3.16        The base costs are estimated as of November 30, 1989 (US$1.0 - TSh
!90) and have been derived as follows:
(a)  Civii Works.  The cost estimates for the Port Concainer Terminal,
Copper Road and Berth 1-8 Rehabilitation components are based on
quantities derived from detailed engineering and actual costs
experienced under the previous container terminai construction
contract which was completed in March 1989. The cost estimates for
the  Berth  Repair,  Lighterage  Wharf  Paving,  Belgian  Wharf
Rehabilitation and Port Central Workshop are based on preliminary
estimates of THA consultants based on similar experiences under
ongoing construction contracts. The foreign exchange component is
assessed at 76Z of total cost of works.
(b)  Equipment.   The cost estimates for equipment have been based on
recent procurement of similar types of equipment under the ongoing
project.
(c)  Engineering  Services  and  Studies.        Design  and  supervision
requirements for the project are estimated at 240 man-months and has
an estimated base cost of US$3.3 million, or equivalent to 9Z of the
estimated construction cost. Consulting services for the Development
Study and Workshop Study is estimated at 83 man-months and 17 man-
months respectively, with a base cost of US$1.2 million.
(d)  Institutional Development.  Technical assistance and training are
estimated at 1,448 and 67 man-m-onths respectively with a base cost
of US$17.0 million. Additionally, technical assistance and training
for customs and TANPRO is estimated to have a base cost of US$2.0
million. The cost estimate has been based on similar assistance
currently being provided to THA.



TABLE 8.1 ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
TOTAL                   TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL    FOR5*G     TOTAL  LOCAL    FOREIGN  TOTAL    X forelgn
(US1 '61)               (TSh millon)
A.   Civil Work$
A.1  Port ContaInor Terminal                2, 667.5   7,252.5   9, n6.6   5M6.0  1,878.0  1,284.9         73
Kurasini Depot                         1,287n6   4,202.6   5,446.0    285.1    798.5  1,688.6         77
Ubungo Depot Pavnog                      417.5   1,252.5   1,676.6     79.8    288.0    817.8         76
Sub-Total A.1                4,822.5  12,707.5  17,098.6    621.8  2,414.4  3,238.7          76
A.2  Copper Road                              612.6     677.5   1,490.0    116.4    166.7    283.1         59
A.8 Berth 9, 10, and 11                     1,057.5   8,172.5   4,23J.6    2ee.9   6e2.6    808.7          76
A.4  Lighterage Wharf Paving A Utilitle       075.0   2,026.6   8,60.0    166.8    496.8    686.0          75
A.6 Beigian Wharf Rohabilitation              875.0  1,125.0   1,6S.6       71.3    218.8    285.0         75
A.6  Port Central Workshop                    862.0     458.0     755.0     67.4    80.1    148.6          as
A.7 Kurasini Oil Jetty Strengthening        1,460.6   7,606.6   9,0e .0   26".6  1,444.0  1,710.0          84
A.8 Berth 1-8 RehbbilIt  aton               8,510.6   9,490.6  18,0.0    666.9  1,8Oa.1  2,470.6           78
Subtotal Part A Sbse Cost            12,454.5  88,060.5  S 60,60.  2,866.4  7,229.6  9,596.0         75
Phycical Contingencle                 1,245.5   8,665.1  5,656.6    286.6    728.60   95.6           75
Price Contingencies                   2,412.7   7,581.2   9,948.9    450.4  1,486.9  1,889.8         76
Subtotal Part A Total Cost           16,112.7  49,866.7  65,499.4  8,061.4  9,888.5 12,444.9         76
B.    Equlpmnt
8.1   General Cargo Equipment                   6.6  4,066.0   4,01.0        6.0    766.6    769.6        169
8.2   Container Terminal Equipment              0.0  *,190.0   6,196.0       6.6  1,C57.1  1,557.1        1Oo
8.8   Ship-to-Shore Gontry                      0.0   7,.5   7,666.6         6.6  1,886.6  1,860.0        100
8.4   Office Equipm_nt                          0.6   I,'.    1,666.6        6.6    190.0    166.6        166
8.6   Central Workshop Equipment                0.0   1,951.0 6  ,9560.      6.0    870.6    870.5        160
Subtotal Part 8 Base Cost                 0.0  22,145.6  22,145.0      0.6  4,207.6  4,207.6        166
Physlcal Contingncies                     6.0   1,107.8   1,167.8      6.6    216.4    216.4 
Pric  ContIngncies                        0.0   4,249.4   4,249.4      0.0   607.4    667.4        16
Subtotal Part B Total Cost                0.0  27,601.6  27,5601.6     6.0  6,226.8  5,226.8        100
C.   Deign/Supervieion
C.1   Design for A1,A2                          6.6    406.0      466.6      0.0     76.0      76.6       100
C.2   Supervision for A1,A2                   275.6   1,16.6   1,$75.0 6     2.8    209.6    281.8         8e
C.a   Dalgn/Supervision for AS                 40.0     16O.6     2eo.0      7.6     8.4       86.6        86
C.4   Deslgn/Supervition for A4                51.6    224.6      266.0     19.6     42.6      68.2        80
C.6   Delgn/Supervision for AS                 24.0      96.6     120.0      4.0      16.2     22.0        so
C.6   Design/Supervision for AS                8.6J     140.0     175.0      6.7     26.6      a8.8        of
C.7   Deeign/Supervislon for A?               144.0     576.0     720.0     27.4    109.4    18O.6         66
C.8   Port Development Study                  2666.0    66.   1,666O.0    88.6    162.6    166.6           86
C.9   Workshop Study                            *.0      M .      266.0      0.6    S8.6       88.0       1OO
Subtotal Port C Bee  Coet               774.6   8,6969.   4,470.0    147.1    702.2    649.8         88
Physical Contingencles                   W8.7     184.8     228.5      7.4     85.1      42.5        --
Price Contingencies                     16.6 5.44.1         674.7     24.0    108.4    128.2         81
Subtotal Part C Total Cost              948.8   4,424.9   5,866.2    179.2    640.7  1,020.0         62
0.     Institutional Development
D.1   Project Coordination Unit               889.6   1,869.2   1,699.0     64.6    250.2    822.8         66
0.2    Managemnt Technical Assisotnce       8,659.0  12,286.1  16,296.0   561.2  2,824.8  2,9a6.1          60
D.3    Technicel Assistance To Customs        40.0  1,600.0   2,600.6       76 0    W64.6    388.0         86
Subtotal Part D Base Cost             8,790.6  16,195.2  18,9U4.6   721.0  2,867.1  8,608.9          80
Physical Contingencies                  109.9     759.0     949.7     86.1    144.4    160.4         --
Price Contingencies                    665.4   8,221.7   4,027.2    158.6    012.1    766.2          66
Subtotal Part D Total Cost           4,794.2  19,176.7  28,970.9    910.9  8,648.6  4,554.5          66
TOTAL BASE COST                            17,027.8  79,086.7  96,114.0 8,28652 15,026.5 18,261.7          02
TOTAL PHYSICAL CVNTINOENCIES                1,474.1   5,056.9   7.881.0    280.1  1,112.8  1,892.9         so
TOTAL PRICE CONTINCENCIES                   $,846.0  15,646.4  18,095.2    6O8.8  2,958.8  8,569.1         82
TOTAL COST                                 21,8560.1 166,496.6 122,460.1  4,151.6 19,998.1 28,244.6        82
TOTAL COST (net of taxes)                  18,286.3 106,490.0 118,776.8  2,524.4 19,098.1 21,617.6
November 1969 Price
Expected Price Incress  (5)               1990    1991    1992    1998    1994    1995    1996
-   -   -   - -   ---- -   26-Dec-89
4.9     4.9     4.9     4.9     4.9     4.9      8.6



- 32 -
F. Fiaancing
3.17        A financing plan has been agreed between the Governmant of Tanzania,
TRA, the Association and bilateral sources. The bilateral participation has been
arranged in the course of discussions between February 1989 and December 1989.
Bilateral donors will subject their components to their own appraisal processes
to confirm project costs estimates and a timetable for implementation to the
satisfaction of the financing source. Most of the bilateral financing will be
from the SADCC regional funds, and their commitment to finance specific
components in the project will be subject to inclusion of those components in
the SADCC Regional Transport Investment Program (Components A.3, A.4, A.5 and
A.7). The Government, in December 1989, undertook to make a formal request to
SADCC.  Also, the procurement of container terminal equipment (Rubber Tired
Gantry) is subject to the container throughput reaching an agreed level of
container traffic. As for the Ship-to-Shore Gantry (B.3) and the Belgian Wharf
Rehabilitation (A.5), THA is committed to financing these two components from
its own resources (consistent with the revenue earning capacity of THA), unless
external financing can be secured from bilateral sources. It was agreed at the
December 1989 NORDIC Donors Meeting at Oslo that donors would assist THA to
secure the financing for these components through future donor meetin6s. The
external financing will be provided through an IDA Credit of US$37 million, a
FINNIDA grant of US$17.9 million, a SIDA grant of US$17.5 million, a NORAD grant
of US$11.5 million, a Netherland grant of US$5.4 million and a DANIDA grant of
US$4.2 million. THA will contribute US$28.8 million to cover the local cost
financing and the foreign exchange element required for the Ship-to-Shore Gantry
and the Belgium Wharf Rehabilitation. Details are given in Annex 3-4.
3.18        The proposed IDA Credit of US$37 million equivalent will be on-lent
to THA for a period of 20 years including five years of grace at an interest
rate of IlZ p.a. It was agreed at negotiations that THA would bear the foreign
exchange risk.   The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and the THA, is a condition of Credit effectiveness. The local cost
component totaling US$21.3 million and foreign cost of US$7.5 million will be
financed by THA with funds allocated for the purpose from its reserves. All co-
financing commitments are being confirmed by the respective financing sources.
Agreement for cofinancing the PCU has been confirmed by respective donors.
G. Implementation and Proiject Monitorin8
Implementation
3.19        The  borrower  will  be  the  Government  of  Tanzania   (GOT).
Implementation of the project will be the responsibility of THA with whom a
Project Agreement has been executed. THA is extremely short of qualified staff
and to ease the burden of project management, THA will continue the current
arrangement for engaging technical experts in the PCU to c3ordinate the overall
execution of the project. The PCU, which will be jointly .^inanced by SIDA and
FINNIDA, will crntinue the current coordination and liaison work through to
completion of che project, preparing such reports on implementation as are
required by the donors and assisting in the preparation and processing of
withdrawal applications. The supervision of the civil works w3.ll be carried out
by consultants appointed by the THA and financed by the respective agencies



- 33 -
funding the civil works. Prequalification for the main civil works component
(Container Terminal and Copper Road)  is underway.   The project should be
physically completed by December 31, 1996.  The  implementation schedule (Chart
1) was agreed upon during negotiations.
Project Monitoring and ReportinR
3.20        For the purposes of monitoring the project during implementation,
the following matters were reviewed during appraisal and agreed with the THA
with respect to the format of the quarterly reports to be prepared by THA for
submission to IDA and the donors:
(a)   progress of the project works with cost data;
(b)   training and technical assistance;
(c)   THA and the Port of Dar es Salaam financial performance,
including operational ratios and cash flow requirements and
overall operations;
(d)   equipment operation and maintenance (availability and costs);
and
(e)   general and bulk cargo, container, RO-RO and grain movements,
berth utilization, ships' waiting and service times and
productivity indicators.
It was agreed at negotiations that THA wil. be responsible  for preparing
quarterly reports and a project completion report within six months of the
closing date of the proposed Credit.
H. Procurement
3.21        The construction of the civil works financed from the IDA Credit
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Eligible domestic bidders would be afforded a margin of
preference of 7.5Z under ICB procurement. Prequalification will be required for
all contracted works. Equipment or materials financed from the IDA Credit would
be procured through ICB in accordance with the IDA guidelines with eligible
domestic bidders afforded a margin of preference of 152. Contracts for office
equipment consisting of computers, facsimile machines, typewriters, copying
machines, etc., estimated to cost up to US$50,000 would be procured by local
shopping with at least three quotations, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million.
Technical Assistance and Training financed under the proposed Credit are
estimated to cost about US$10.7 million, and the Engineering and Supervision
services financed under the Credit are estimated to cost about US$1.7 million.
The Port Development Study is estimated to cost about US$1.2 million.  These
consulting services will be carried out by firms appointed from short lists in
accordance with the Association's guidelines.   All IDA-financed procurement
packages over US$100,000 will be subject to prior IDA review.
3.22        NORAD-financed  works  (Kurasini  Oil  Jetty  Upgrading)  will  be
undertaken by a Norwegian contractor appointed in accordance with the procedures
of NORAD.   The Government of the Netherlands will appoint a contractor to
undertake the Lighterage Wharf Paving. Equipment (other than those financed by
IDA) will be supplied by Finnish manufacturers in accordance with FINNIDA



procedures.  Experts for Technical Assistance and Training (other than those
financed by IDA) will be engaged by FINNIDA, NORAD, SIDA, and the Netherlands
based on their respective procedures.
3.23        Procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement!'
(US$ million)
Items to be Procured          Procurement Method              Total Cost
ICB         Otherb/
Civil Works                    23.8        41.7                 65.5
(17.5)      (-)                 (17.5)
Equipment                       7.4        20.1                 ^7.5
(7.4)       (1.2)               (8.6)
Engineering Services                        5.4                  5.4
and Studies                               (2.3)                (2.3)
Technical Assistance                       23.9                 23.9
for Institutional                         (8.6)                (8.6)
Development
TOTAL             31.2         91.1               122.3
(24.9)      (12.1)              (37.0)
a/ Figures in parentheses indicate financing by IDA.
/ Includes bilateral donors and THA.
I. Disbursement
3.24        The length of the implementation period is based on past experience
on similar projects as reflected in the relevant standard disbursement profile
(6.5 years). The IDA Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1996. The IDA funds will be disbursed as follows:
X of Expenditure               IDA Amount
Category    DescriDtion                to be Financed               (US$ million)
1        Civil Worka              100? of foreign   exp.             14.1
2        Equipment                 1002 of foreign   exp.             6.9
3        Consultant's Services   100? of foreign   exp.               7.0
and Training for THA
4        Training for Customs    1002                                 1.6
5        Equipment for Customs   100?                                 0.4
6        Unallocated              1001                                7.0
TOTAL                                          37.0



- 35 -
3.25       All disbursements will be fully documented, except for contracts
and purchase orders of less than US$50,000. Disbursement for items less than
US$50,000 will be made against Statement of Expenditures, documentation for
which would be held by THA, to be made available for inspection by supervision
missions. An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Annex 3-5. This
schedule is in line with comparable disbursements under previous Bank Group
financing of specific investment projects in Tanzania.  In order to expedite
disbursement of funds under the above categories of the Credit, two Special
Accounts with deposits of US$1.5 million and US$400,000 respectively (an amount
roughly equivalent to four months of estimated expenditures). The
Special Accounts will be established and maintained in THA and Customs' name,
respectively, in the Central Bankwill be replenished by the Association in
accordance with agreed procedures.
J. Accounting and Auditing
3.26        Project accotnts will be maintained by THA.  In previous Bank Group
projectt, THA has experienced cnsiderable delays in having its accounts prepared
and audited. To combat this problem, the project includes a technical assistance
and training component for THA's Finance Department, as well as provision for the
computerization of ledger operations.   It was agreed at negotiations that the
Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC), who have audited the accounts of previous Bank
group project's accounts, will audit the accounts and that all audited THA and
project accounts, including the Special Accounts and Statements of Expenditures,
will be submitted to the Association no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
K. Environmental Impact
3.27       Although the physical aspects of the proposed project do not pose any
serious environmental concerns (all works are a continuation of ongoing works which
will be governed by the procedures to safeguard the en-vironment adopted under the
ongoing project), the proposed port development study (Annex 3-3) will need to
include a very careful environmental impact study.  The main concerns are two-
fold: (i) if the study recommends that berth expansion is required to handle the
future traffic, this would most likely entail a major reclamation program to extend
the berth area; and (ii) THA has expressed interest in widening the entrance
channel to the harbor, and this would entail heavy dredging to deepen and widen the
channel. The concern here is that both undertakings would (a) alter the existing
balance of tidal flow which is preventing heavy siltation of the harbor channel;
and (b) heavy dredging may affect the environmental balance in the port area. In
drafting the terms of reference for the development study, specific points on
environmental issues have been raised which will need to be addressed in the study.
The study will also be guided by the recently published Bank Technical Paper:
Environmental Considerations for Port and Harbor Developments (January 1989).
3.28        In addition to the physical aspects related to the environment, the
area which has raised concern during project appraisal has been the treatment of
bilge and ships' waste, including bunkers from petroleum tankers.  THA is not a
signatory to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from
Ships - MARPOL - (1978 Protocol) under the International Maritime Organization
(IHO). The Convention sets out strict guidelines on management of ships' waste,



- 36 -
including that of petroleum tankers, in an endeavor to minimize damage caused by
port and shipping operations.  Given the beneficial effect of proper pollution
control and environmental protection enshrined in this Convention, it has been
agreed with THA that an investigation will be commissioned under the proposed Port
Development Study to analyze the facilities and changes in operating practices
which THA will need to undertake to join the MARPOL Convention. A careful balance
must be struck between environmental concerns and the cost of necessary facilities,
such as an incinerator, required to enable THA to comply with the detailed
requirements of the Convention. The details of the necessary investigation have
been specified in the draft terms of reference for the port development study.
Furthermore, in order to take precautionary measures and improve on the already
existing pollution control system at THA, fire fighting equipment for tugs, and
a pollution control facility, including a waste oil reception facility, have been
included in the KOJ Strengthening component to be financed by NORAD.



- 37 -
IV.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Future Traffic
4.01        The future levels of Dar es Salaam port traffic will largely be a
function of (i) a continued recovery of the Tanzanian economy, (ii) the direction
of Zambian economic growth; (iii) the pace of diversion of ZBR and Uganda traffic
to Tanzania; and (iv) the opening of inland transshipment depots channelling
increased Malawi transit traffic. Detailed traffic projections have been made
up to 1995, assuming that the proposed container terminal expansion at the port
of Dar et Salaam will be in operation by early 1993. The forecast assumes that
Tanzania cuntinues the macroeconomic adjustments begun under the Economic
Recovery Program (1986-1989) and that the economy will continue to grow at about
4-52 p.a., the growth rate experienced over the past three years. For Zambia,
in the absence of a concerted effort to adjust its macroeconomic policy, the
economy is forecast to continue its low level of growth over the forecast period
(0-22 p.a.). With the completion of the Isaka transshipment terminal and the
planned improvements in TRC operations (proposed Railways Restructuring Project),
the diversion of ZBR and Uganda traffic to Dar es Salaam from the port of Mombasa
is expected to continue. Specifically, the projections anticipate modest growth
in traffic from Burundi and Rwanda; a continuation of the significant growth
experienced in the past five years by Uganda traffic; and stagnation at current
levels for traffic from Zaire. Given the planned completion of the Malawi Cargo
Centers at Dar es Salaam and Mbeya (1990191), Malawi transit traffic to Dar es
Salaam ir expected to increase significantly.   In aggregate, non-petroleum
traffic is expected to recover by 1993 to little less than the level recorded
in 1977, and thereafter to grow at 6Z per annum to 1995. The overall growth rate
between 1988 and 1995 is expected to be about 52 p.a.
4.02        As for the composition of traffic through the port of Dar es Salaam,
Tanzanian traffic is forecast to maintain its share at about 41Z, while Zambian
traffic's share will continue to decline to 32Z in 1995 (although it will rise
slightly in absolute terms).    In contrast, the proportion of total traffic
accounted for by Malawi, ZBR and Uganda is projected to increase to over 272 from
the current 182 (122 in 1983).
Flgure 4.1
4.03        T h e    t r a f f i c                  Port of Dar es Salaam
projections  are based upon  a              Dry CargoTraffic Forecast (1O W1995)
study by  THA  consultants  and    3
THA's  Department  of  Planning,
adjusted for recent trends.  A
summary of traffic projections
is presented in Figure 4.1, with   $2 --                      . ..............
detailed quantitative figures in   c                         .......
Annexes 4-1 to 4-3.   Annex 4-4
describes the rationale for each   c
country's  traffic projections.                                 . . . _ . . . . . .
To  summarize,  the  traffic  is                 ...............
forecast to increase from 2.06
million tonnes in 1988,
C -im1990      1993        1895
5TmwannaQ ZIbff El 0tmm



- 38 -
to 2.60 million tonnes in 1993 and 2.95 million tonnes in 1995. Also in Annex
4-4. the potential impact of a South African border closure on traffic through
Dar es Salaam has been analyzed. The results indicate that, given the capacity
expansion proposed under this project, the port of Dar es Salaam would just be
able to handle the diverted traffic in an intermediate scenario in which the
Benguela, Limpopo and Beira-Malawi railways are closed. In the highly unlikely
scenario in which all other transport corridors in Southern Africa, including
the Beira-Zimbabwe corridor, are closed, the port would be overwhelmed.
4.04        A high proportion of the non-bulk traffic through Dar es Salaam,
some 802 to 852 by consultant estimates, can be containerized. In 1983, only
about 192 was actually containerized. By 1988, nearly 33Z was containerized; an
average annual growth rate of 20? between 1983 and 1988.   The critical
determinant of future container traffic is, therefore, the speed of penetration,
rather than the overall growth of traffic, and this in turn is determined by the
effectiveness of inland transport and transshipment facilities in handling
containerized cargo. The major obstacle to a faster pace of containerization
has been TRC's and TAZARA's lack of wagons and transshipment facilities. The
increase in coitainer traffic has outstripped their capacity &nd shippers are
currently forced to strip the containers in the port before onward shipment.
Both TRC and TAZARA have realized the magnitude of containerized transport demand
and have begun major investments to increase their fleet of flat bed wagons to
transport containers. Also, inland container depots are being built at Isaka
for Burundi and Rwanda traffic and at Mbeya and Dar es Salaam for Malawi traffic.
These capacity and facility improvements should further encourage the rate of
containerization. Within the overall forecast, it is projected that container
traffic will continue to grow, albeit at a relatively slower pace of 142 p.a.,
to reach 1.7 million tonnes by 1995 (582 containerization). Forecast traffic
volumes for the period 1988 to 1995, disaggregated by mode of handling, are shown
in Figure 4.2 below.
Figure 4.2
Port of Dar es Salaam
Dry Cargo Traffic by Mode of Handling
S
02
98 w8          1S     1S      19Q     19     19wm
0~~~~~~~~~0
i          19w0    1i9i   19s2   1e9s   1994   1ee5



- 39 -
B.   Proiect Economic Benefits
General
4.05.       The proposed project will have three different types of benefits.
In the first place, it will increase the overall capacity of the port of Dar es
Salaam, allowing it to accommodate expected traffic growth at least until 1997,
rather than reaching full capacity by 1994. Second, the project will facilitate
the continued containerization of traffic through Dar es Salaam, with
accompanying savings in ships' turnaround time, and onward transportation and
other costs. Third, institutional reforms and new equipment will improve
productivity in both the container and the conventional terminals. Specific
quantifiable benefits are: reductions in ships' service times and in ships'
waiting times; avoidance of the increased costs and/or lost revenues involved
in having to route traffic through other ports; reduction in the average dwell
time of containers; and lower insurance costs. These benefits are discussed
below, after an analysis of future traffic in the absence of the project.
Future Traffic Without the Proposed Project
4.06.       Dar es Salaam port currently has storage capacity for a throughput
of 64,700 loaded TEUs p.a., which is barely sufficient for the container traffic
forecast for 1990 (62,075 loaded TEUs). Without the increase in storage capacity
envisaged under the project, from 1991 onwards, increasing amounts of traffic
which would otherwise have been containerized would have to be 'reassigned" to
the conventional terminal and shipped in break-bulk form. In this scenario, dry
cargo through the conventional terminal would rise quickly until its full
capacity of 1.87 million tonnes is reached in 1994. Consequently, from 1994
onwards, traffic would be 'divertedl at an increasing rate to other ports such
as Tanga and Mombasa, reaching an estimated level of 600,000 tonnes p.a. by 1997.
A comparison of traffic forecasts with and without the project, including
projections for 'reassigned' and "diverted' traffic, is presented in Annex 4-5.
4.07.       If additional capacity at Dar es Salaam port were urgently required,
the lighterage wharf could be rehabilitated with a substantial investment in
barges, cargo handling equipment and infrastructure.   This would increase
capacity by about 400,000 townes (or about 30,000 TEUs) p.a., but the high
operating costs and up-front investment make this an uneconomic proposition
compared to the proposed project.
Ships' Service and Waiting Times
4.08.       The major benefit derived from the project is a reduction in the
total number of ship berth days and the number of days that ships spend waiting
for a berth, despite an increase in total traffic handled at Dar es Salaam (see
Annexes 4-6 to 4-8). This benefit is captured through the cost savings related
to a reduction in ship turnaround time-(service time plus waiting time). These
reductions in ships' turnaround time are caused by two factors: first.
productivity improvements will reduce the average service time for each ship;
and, second, increasing container penetration (which would not be possible



- 40 -
without the project) will relieve the conventional terminal, allowing berth
occupancy rates there to fall from the full capacity level of 75-90Z to the 45-
601 range.   Since the ratio of ships' waiting time to service time  is
exponentially related to berth occupancy, this translates into a significant
saving.
4.09.       It should be noted that the Tanzanian economy does not receive the
full benefit of the savings in ships' time, nor does it receive it immediately.
In the first instance, the shipowners stand to gain the full benefit. However,
since the shipping industry is reasornably competitive, it is estimated that half
of these savings are passed on in the form of lower freight rates and demurrage
charges. Many of these savings accrue to importers in neighboring land-locked
countries, so the analysis has assumed that Tanzania gains the benefits according
to its share of total traffic through Dar es Salaam, and that the benefits are
lagged one year tehind actual reductions in ships' time.
Container Dwell Time Reduction
4.10.       A second major benefit of the project is the reduction in container
dwell time. Every day that a container sits idle in the port, the owner of its
contents is losing an average of US$5, the opportunity cost (at 10X) of the
capital tied up in the goods, assuming containerized imports are worth US$1,400
pe  tonne.   Only those benefits attributable to Tanzania, i.e. the working
capital cost savings on Tanzanian imports, have been Epplied as project benefits
in the economic analysis. In addition to these wox ing capital cost savings,
the owners of the containers (usually shipowners) ch7 :ge demurrage fees for every
day the container is not returned empty to port b ond a certain grace period.
Since the terms and conditions of these demurrage charges vary and the savings
associated with their reduction are difficult to quantify, they have not been
included in the calculation of the project's economic return.  However, given
that Tanzania currently owes more than US$5 million in demurrage charges for the
first five months of 1989, this is clearly a substantial additional project
benefit.
4.11.       Technical assistance, training and essential equipment for Customs
officials as well as co-ordination between THA, Customs and other port users is
designed to reduce the average dwell time of containers to specific targets (in
coordination with IDA, UNCTAD began the first phase of assistance in September
1989). A description of the dwell time issue and details of this program of
assistance and agreed dwell time targets are provided in Technical Working Paper
2, attached as Annex 4-9. The benefits from container dwell time reduction are
summarized in Annex 4-10.
Reduced Insurance Costs
4.12.       Containerizing cargo reduces the risk of damage and pilferage.  This
is translated into insurance costs which are typically lower by 0.5Z of the value
of the cargo. Without the project, the port would not be able to accommodate
any container traffic beyond 64,700 loaded TEUs p.a., and all traffic
subsequently "reassigned' to the conventional terminal in break-bulk form would



- 41 -
incur the higher insurance costs. Assuming local traders bear the additional
costs ascribed to Tanzanian traffic only, the project saves the domestic economy
about US$1.0 million p.a. (Annex 4-11).
Avoidance of Diversion to Other Ports
4.13.       Without the project, the port of Dar es Salaam would reach full
capacity in 1994 and any further traffic would have to be diverted to other
ports. Zambian and Malawian traffic would most likely be diverted through RSA
and Mozambique; Uganda, Zaire and Rwanda would probably use Mombasa (in Kenya);
and Burundi traffic as well as incremental domestic Tanzanian traffic could use
Tanga (in Tanzania) or Mombasa. The cost to the Tanzanian economy of traffic
being diverted to foreign ports is at least as high as the lost contribution
(revenue minus variable costs) foregone by THA, and probably considerably more
if one takes into account the lost v-alue added in inland transportation services.
Very conservatively, it is assumed that US$250 in wharfage and stevedoring
contribution is lost for every twenty foot container which is diverted to a non-
Tanzanian port.  Any traffic being diverted to Tanga would incur additional
road/rail costs of about US$90 per tonne, as well as necessitating capital
investment at Tanga, making it an even more costly alternative for Tanzania than
diversion of transit traffic to a foreign port. In the no-project scenario,
therefore, it would make sense, on strictly economic grounds, for Tanzania to
continue to serve its own trade needs in full at Dar es Salaam plus any other
traffic which could be accommodated, diverting only transit traffic to foreign
ports. In this case, the cost of diversion (i.e. THA's loss of contribution)
would start at about US$1.3 million in 1994, rising to US$12.1 million in 1997
(see Annex 4-11).   In addition to the direct economic losses, diversion of
transit traffic would hinder recent endeavors to strengthen regional integration
and economic cooperation.
Other Unquantified Benefits
4.14.       There are a number of additional project benefits which have not been
quantified.   Some relate to THA specifically, others more generally to the
Tanzanian economy. With reference to THA, the new financial strategy (described
in Chapter V and more fully in Annex 5-6) will lead to more efficient capital
investment decision making and a better allocation of physical resources through
strategic use of the tariff structure. Having to repay all donor grants to the
Government will reduce the state of laid dependence', and the incentive scheme
will improve productivity not just in ship-to-shore handling, but also in all
aspects of THA's activities from planning and supplies management to engineering
services and financial administration.   Instead of privatizing one or two
specific functions relating to port activity, the project will cause THA to
behave in a more commercial manner, effectively bringing private sector forces
to bear on the whole organization.
4.15.       With reference to the economy in general, the project will facilitate
trade flows through increased capacity, shorter dwell times and simpler
documentation. Since the private sector plays a relatively large part in trading
activity in the region, this aspect of the project has a beneficial impact on
private sector development. Inland transportation services (mainly TRC, TAZARA
and the trucking industry) will see greater demand, although the extent to which



- 42 -
they benefit will depend on their success in relieving their own capacity
constraints. At the national accounts level, the fiscal deficit will be reduced
by THA's increased payments of tax, interest, principal and dividends (which
could total more than lOS of the 1987-88 budget deficit by 1992).
4.16.       The rehabilitation of the Kurasini Oil Jetty will substantially
reduce the probability of an accident taking place, especially since the tankers
mooring at the oil jetty are becoming steadily larger. Such an accident might
lead to the loss of a tanker plus its cargo (conservatively estimated at US$30
million), with the attendant pollution costs, as well as loss of human life.
It might also prevent the port from receiving further tankers for up to six
months, thus depriving the economy of vital fuel. Since these losses and the
probability of their taking place are not susceptible to precise quantification,
this component has been excluded from project costs and benefits for the purposes
of calculating an economic rate of return.
Distribution of lenefits
4.17.       The main beneficiaries of the project are freight forwarders and
importers in Tanzania and neighboring countries who receive the benefits of lower
freight rates, lower insurance costs, lower container demurrage charges and lower
working capital neseds.  To the extent that these savings are passed on to the
consumer, they too will benefit from the project.
4.18.       Along with traders and their customers,  THA will be a major
beneficiary due to increased revenues, lower operating costs and more
commercially minded management practices. Some of these benefits will be passed
on to the Treasury and therefore to the Tanzanian taxpayer.   In the first
instance, shipowners (almost entirely foreign) will profit from the reduced ship
turnaround times, but some of these gains (501 is assumed) will be passed on to
traders after a short lag. Finally, the railway and trucking industries will
benefit from increased traffic, especially transit cargo.
C.   Project Economic Costs
4.19.       In estimating project costs, all components have been included except
the Kurasini Oil Jetty (para 4.16) and certain civil works and technical
assistance costs associated with the ongoing project. Physical contingencies,
but not price contingencies, have been included. Non-tradeable goods are assumed
to make up 901 of all local costs (mainly civil works) and a conversion factor
of 0.8 has been applied. The tax and duty component of local goods has been
excluded. The project will be implemented over five years, with the bulk (  the
capital costs occurring in years two, three and four (1991-93). The project's
recurrent costs comprise maintenance of the new infrastructure (relatively
inexpensive since it is basically just paving) and maintenance and added
operating costs of the new equipment. Maintaining the new equipment will also
be relatively inexpensive (51 of capital cost p.a.) during the life of the
project when technical assistance will be at hand. Thereafter, it is forecast
to rise to 8Z of capital cost.  The third SSG and the conventional cargo
equipment will require fuel and a larger number of relatively skilled operators,
equivalent to 31 of the equipment's capital cost p.a. Annex 4-12 provides a



- 43 -
breakdown of project costs by type and year.
D. Economic Retuxa and Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Return
4.20.         Projecting cash flows to 2014 and assuming zero salvage value, the
project's economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at 20Z (Table 4.1 summarizes
economic costs and benefits). Adopting the standard convention for dealing with
a multi-year construction period, the project's 'first year return' is 12Z,
indicating the project is timely. Using a discount rate of 1OZ, the project's
net present value is estimated at US$43 million. The reduction in ships' service
and waiting time accounts for 492 of gross benefits, with avoidance of diversion
costs making up another 35X. FigUre 4.3 shows the relative importance of the
different benefits.
Table 4.1
_JO4AY OF    CoT AM
US6000:                         1990    191      1992    19      194     199     199      1997  1998-2c
COSTS,
CAPITAL INVET?EN               (6.158)  (14.676)  (40.969)  (18.282)  (8.263)  0    0       0       C
:M MAIN  AND OPWATN CST          (77)   (84)  (2.205)  (2.4U4)  (2,476)  (8,150)  (3.180)  (8,150)  (3.1k
BENEFITS:
SHIPS' SNVICE TDE                  0     802   1,026   1.6n    2,27    2.446   2,268   2.C92   2,09W
SHIPS' VAITINO TIE                 0     279   e,sn    6,264   7,236   8.219   8,072  8s02s   8,021
oELL TDE REWUCTrN                  0     807      4    1,191   1,651    1,976   2,8eo   2,604    2,60.
INSURANC                          0      298     n9    1,178   1,822   1.2=8    1,128   1.086    1,08*
AVODAMCE OF DIVSION COSTS          0       0       0       0    1,295   4,659   8,240  12,054  12,0s.
NET MEFITS                     (6,228)  (14,042)  (64086   (5,481)   7,98   1t,8e2   18,908  22.664  s2,s6
GM  2
tV   42,6
Figure 4.3
Share of Project's Gross Benefits
Accounted For By Each Type Of Benefit
DwmTRsPdtclOn 10 i    ,      *-?
OiveionQS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ TW  491I4 %
presen Value (SSm)
GroSs Benefits a 127.4
E          |odown of PMOO     Costs = 84.7
pass swat            Net Benefits- 42.7



- 44 -
SensitivitY Analy3is
4.21.       Table 4.2 depicts the sensitivity of the project's ERR to critical
variables, while Table 4.3 shows the switching values of these variables (the
values at which the project's net present value is zero). It can be seen that
the economlc return is most sensitive to the growth in total traffic.
Specifically, if traffic grows at only 802 of the rate forecast, the estimated
ERR falls from 20X to 15X.  If the growth rate falls further to 62X of the
forecast (i.e. growth of 4.0? p.a. between 1989 and 1997 rather than 6.5?), then
the project's estimated ERR would be only 10?, indicating zero net present
value.
Table 4.2
SENSITIVITY OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN TO KEY VARIABLES
CAPITAL COSTS              PROJECT DELAY
(X Base)                    (Years)
low%     120%               One      Two
BASE CASE:               20X       16%               15X      10X
TRAFFIC     8ax:                16X      11X                10X       6X
GROWTH
RATE     SOX:                 9X       ex                 4X       1X
(X Base)
CONTAINER    80X:                 19X      16X               14X        9X
PENETRATION
RATE (X Base)    Sox:                18X       15X               14X       oX
TRAFFIC
GROWTH PLUS    8ax:                 14%      10%               10X        4X
CONTAINER
PENETRATION    SOX:                 7X        4X                2X       -1X
(X BaSs)
NO PRODUCTIVITY EFFECT:              18X       14X               13X       8X
NO DWELL TIME REDUCTION:              l6x       13X               12X       7X
On the other hand, the project's ERR is not so sensitive to the rate at which
containerization increases: if t,e container penetration rate (defined as the
percentage rise in the proportion of traffic which is containerized) falls to
60? of the forecast rate, the estimated ERR drops only to 18Z. Even with zero
additional container penetration, the project has positive net present value.
This counter-intuitive result can be explained as followst the economic analysis
considers the whole port of Dar es Salaam, not just the container terminal. If
potential traffic cannot be containerized, it will instead be shipped through
the conventional terminal as break-bulk cargo.   This will lead to higher



- 45 -
operating and insurance costs, but the traffic will not have to be diverted to
another port until the conventional terminal also reaches capacity.  The key
benefit of the project is not that it expands the container terminal per se, but
that it is the most effective and efficient way of increasing the port's total
capacity, thus reducing the more important costs of diversion and ships' waiting
time. Consequently, it is total traffic growth which is the key variable for
Dar es Salaam port, rather than container penetration.
Table 4.3
Switching Values of Key Variables
Variable                                         Switching Value
Total Traffic Growth (2 p.a. 1989-1997)                4.0 (Forecast = 6.5)
Container Penetration                                  N.A.
Project Costs (Z of Base)                               165
Project Delay (Months)                                   24
Dwell Time Reduction                                   N.A.
Productivity Improvements                              N.A.
Note:  N.A. - Not Applicable.   Net present value of project remains
positive when variable = zero.
4.22.       If productivity improvements with the project are no better than
those expected without the project, the estimated ERR will fall from 202 to 18Z;
and if no benefits from dwell time reduction materialize at all then the ERR
will fall from 20? to 16X. If both circumstances occur together, the combined
effect is a fall in the ERR to 14?. In effect, therefore, these two variables
do not have switching values. The project's viability is more sensitive to an
increase in project costs or a delay in implementation. A 20X increase in costs
will reduce the ERR to 16?. while a one year delay would imply an ERR of 15?.
If both occurred, the ERR would be just 12X. Switching values for these two
variables are a 65? increase in costs and a 24 month delay respectively.
4.23.       The  project's  sensitivity  is  not  unduly  compounded  by  high
correlation between these key variables. In certain cases, the correlation may
actually be negative, reducing the inherent riskiness of tbhe proje-_t.   For
instance, a reduction in total traffic will be accompanied by an increase in
container penetration, if container volumes are unaffected. Even if traffic
growth and container penetration are perfectly correlated, the impact of a
reduction in their growth rates is not significantly different from a reduction
in the growth of total traffic alone, except at exceptionally low growth rates.
E. Proiect Risks
4.24.       The project faces three major risks: traffic growth; project costs
and potential delays in implementation; and the pace of achievement of
operational  improvements,  including dwell time  reduction.    In the first
instance, total traffic may not grow as quickly aa forecast, especially if there
is a pause  in Tanzania's  economic  recovery.   Nevertheless,  the  traffic
projections used in the analysis have adopted conservative assumptions



- 46 -
growth, the extent to which Halavi decides to use its newly developed northern
corridor, and Dar es Salaam's attractiveness to Rwanda, Uganda and Zaire as an
alternative port to Mombasa.   Furthermore, the anticipated improvements in
operational efficiency at Dar es Salaam will solidify its competitive position,
significantly reducing the opportunities for other ports to win back lost
business. As a precaution against this project risk, the Ship-to-Shore Gantry
Crane and the Rubber Tired Ganty Cranes included in the project will only be
ordered once a certain trigger level of container traffic has been reached.
4.25.       The second risk concerns project costs and timing.   As in all
projects, there is always the possib4lity that estimated costs will be exceeded
or that implementation will be delayed. In this case, the risk is reduced by
certain aspects of the project, namely that: civil works represent only about
40Z of total project costs; the planned construction (mainly paving) is
technically straightforward; cost estimates have been based on detailed
engineering studies; and THA has recent experience of major construction activity
under the ongoing Port Rehabilitation Project.   Project delay is more of a
threat, given the experience of the ongoing project, but again this is mitigated
by the relative technical simplicity of the planned civil works and by THA's
prior knowledge of Bank procedures.
4.26.       Finally, there is also the risk that the operational improvements
envisaged under the project will not materialize. Although this would not have
a drastic effect on the ERR, it would severely diminish some of the project's
unquantified benefits. To gua-d against this threat, a detailed strategy for
operational improvements has been designed (described in paragraphs 2.23 to
2.33). In particular, the Technical Assistance and Training program incorporates
lessons learned from the ongoing project, and its effectiveness will be closely
monitored by a TA/T Coordinator in the Project Coordination Unit. Performance
targets have been explicitly defined in the Project Agreement and the
productivity incentive scheme will play a strong role in promoting their
attainment. On the specific issue of container dwell time reduction, the Customs
component will ensure that improvements are made in document processing
procedures, the major cause of high average dwell time.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Financial Mana_ement
5.01.       Although THAs Finance Department is currently suffering from a
staffing shortage, its basic competence is sound. The Department compiles THA's
financial statements (balance sheet, profit and loss, and sources and application
of funds) and submits to the Ministry of Communications and Works an annuil and
a supplementary budget for approval.
5.02.       A covenant was included in the 1984 Credit Agreement requiring that
audited accounts be forwarded to the Association no later than 9 months after
the end of THA's fiscal year (which runs from July to June). However, since the
start of the project, financial reports have been regularly delayed. Audited



- 47 -
accounts for fiscal year 1986-87 were only completed in April 1989. Moreover,
at the end of June 1989, THA's 1987-88 accounts had not been audited, and ledgers
had only been completed up to December 1988.
5.03.       The delays in preparing accounts have been caused by two factors.
First, there is substantial understaffing at senior management levels, with
unfilled vacancies in critical positions in the headquarters finance unit.
Recruiting efforts have been unsuccessful, chiefly because of THA's wage policy.
Second, the accounts have been delayed by a state of partial computerization.
A computer specialist has been included in the project's technical assistance
program to upgrade the Finance Department's computing capabilities and to help
train the staff who will be recruited or promoted into the vacant positions.
5.04.       A major improvement is currently being effected concerning the format
of THA's financial reporting.   There has been a general confusion between
financial and management accounting, with costs being classified in the profit
and loss accounts according to cost centers (such as shipping, wharfage etc.)
instead of being sorted by major expenditure item (such as salaries, depreciation
etc.).   Starting from fiscal year 1989-90, THA's financial documents will
classify costs according to expenditure items, and management accounts will be
reported separately. This will improve the quality of financial information,
as well as simplifying budget preparation and productivity studies.
5.05.       External auditing has been carried out by the Tanzania Audit
Corporation (TAC), which was established in 1968 to audit all Tanzanian
parastatals.   TAC's staff is independent and competent but under strength.
THA's internal auditing unit is also understaffed.   It comprises about 40
employees, with 8 at headquarters and the rest distributed among the three ports.
As in the Finance Department, the major cause of understaffing is THA's wage and
incentive structure.   As noted in para 3.26, in the future, THA's audited
accounts are to be presented to the Association no later than 6 months after the
end of each fiscal year.
B. Operating Performance
5.06.       Operating surplus has risen from US$6 million (8? of operating
revenue) in 1983 to US$33 million (601 of operating revenue) in 1988 (Figure
5.1). THA's income statements for the period 1983-88 are summarized in Annex
5-1. The massive increase in operating surplus has been caused chiefly by the
depreciation of the TSh versus the US Dollar (Annex 5-2), since more than 60Z
of THA's operating revenues are foreign exchange denominated. Furthermore, some
revenue categories like wharfage on domestic imports are cashed in TShs but are
effectively invoiced on foreign currency values because the tariff basis is ad
valorem. On the other hand, only 20? of operating costs (financial charges,
spare parts, tug servicing) are foreign exchange denominated. More than half
the operating costs are staff costs and depend primarily on the local inflation
rate for salaries and allowances.   As a result of this currency mismatch,
operating expenditure has decreased from US$65 million in 1983 to US$22 million
in 1988, while revenues have decreased from US$71 million to US$56 million over
the same period. THA's operating margin is highly dependent on movements in the
TSh/US Dollar exchange rate, and it can be estimated that a 1OZ depreciation of
TSh generates, everything else being equal, about US$2.5 million a year for THA.



- 48 -
Figure 5.1
Operating Surplus 1983-88
US$ Million
70
6 
50          _             _____
tO   -       -------. -
103
1S63     1864      1988S    1986      1867      19663
Year
--- OperaingCost    Operating Surplus -  Operating Revenue
5.07.       Table 5.1 below indicates that the structure of operating revenues
has been relatively stable, with wharfage and operations generating two thirds
of total revenues. In spite of high dwell times, storage revenues have fallen
from their 1986 peak because they are denominated in TShs (which have depreciated
against the US Dollar).
Table 5.1
Operating Revenue by ActivitY
(as a percentage of total operating revenue)
Year Ending June 30:           1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989 (6 mos)
Shipping                       102   16X   142   142   142   132
Wharfage                       392   352   342   36Z   392   402
Operations                     312   282   28?   32Z   312   302
Storage                        152   162   202   13Z   112   132
Other                          42    5Z    52    52    6Z    4X
Total (in US$m)                57    56    66    54    56    31
5.08.       Although a historical cost breakdown by major expenditure item cannot
be obtained at a global THA level, an analysis of Dar es Salaam port's financial
documents shows a steeply declining share of the salary component. In TSh terms,
salary rises have been consistently below the Tanzanian inflation rate.
Operating supplies, maintenance and miscellaneous items, where the foreign cost
component is substantial, have increased their share of total costs from 222 to
32X (see Figure 5.2).



_ 49 -
igure 5.2
Dar es Salaam Port
Breakdown of Operating Costs 185-8
ToaI* 45.2m        rTaal -2.7 m
ts ~~~~~~~............. ,'' -t......... .. 'raw.... in98
4%  .....    9%           ~~~~~Compound Annual
6%      *-1............            Growth Rate
12%                1%1965-1988
14#  0  0   ....... ......   . .............  Total Operating Costs: -22%
N    . . .. ...      X             Op.  Q   erating Supplies: -1%
(2Miscellaneous: -17%
27%                26[ x-             Maintenance: -16%
[1 Depreciation: .24%
sm        20% ~~~~~~~COvertIme: -25%
N Salaries: 28%
1U85               1966
5.09.       Two anomalies are worth noting in the general cost structure. First,
accounting depreciations do not in any way reflect the economic replacement cost
of assets. As a result, the cost of services (wharfage, operations, storage
etc.), a crucial element in pricing decisions, is understated, and may jeopardize
THA's ability to replace its asset base. Second, surplus before taxation is
overstated because realized currency losses on long term loans are not being
deducted, and because depreciation charges are too low, as outlined above.
5.10.      A costing exercise by service at the Dar es Salaam port has been
regularly carried out by THA's Finance Department. Costs are broken down into
'direct" (salaries and overtime charged to specific services, maintenance,
insurance and depreciation of specific equipment), 'direct general" (unproductive
labor remuneration) and "overheads' (headquarters' salaries, maintenance and
depreciation). 80Z of overheads are allocated to wharfage, while the remaining
20Z are attributed to the different services at the prorata of direct costs.
The costs per unit of services are shown in Annex 5-3(A).
5.11.      Average tariffs are shown in Annex 5-3(B), by currency denomination,
and tariff unit, for the main categories of service. The tariff structure is
overall adequate, given prices charged by the competition. A number of major
activities generate gross contributions (revenues minus direct and direct general
costs) in excess of 701 (Figure 5.3). However, some improvements could be made:
(i) the tariff unit for transit containers and transit break bulk cargo should
be TEUs and harbor tonnes respectively instead of the current ad valorem pricing
basis. As from May 1989, transit export containers are being charged on a TEU
basis. This tariff policy should be applied to all transit traffic to make the



- 50 -
giving of quotations easier, eliminate undervaluation problems, and accelerate
the flow of merchandise by easing documentation procedures; (ii) tariffs of TSh
denominated services like domestic cargo shorehandling and loaded container
storage should be adjusted on a more regular basis to take account of exchange
rate movements; and (iii) all tariffs should be reassessed in light of rising
depreciation costs caused by investment in new equipment and revaluation of some
older assets.
Figure 5.3
Dar es Salaam Port
Gross Contribution by Activity
0      20      40      60       80      100
---- m  .   . .. .  .    . -........
NalafanaMd ..   ....... ..
..O IC  .    .   .    . . ..   .   .   ..   .. . ..... . .. .   ....... . ....
w ~~~~~~~~~~~~.     . .   . . . .. . . . . ........j-j,  
_~~      ~~~~~~~~~~ m } I
......... ..... 
0      20      40      66)      0      100
% Revenue



- 51 -
C. Financial Condition                                 Figure 5.4
Ths Financial Structure
5.12.       THA's  total   assets                 JUne 3O,1988 (US$m),
quadrupled between 1986 and 1988 in
current TShs  (a 402 increase in                 1108              1108
current US Dollars).  This increase
is the result of the ongoing port
development project (which includes
the container and grain terminals,                                        Long TOM
the inland container depots and          rixeca                           Uabfl9 +T nn
substantial   amounts   of   new        FUgpaft
equipment) on the one hand, and the      68.4            Not              80.0
fact that existing assets in 1986               \           d      \
were severely undervalued.  Figure
5.4 depicts the draft balance sheet
for fiscal year 1988, and balance
sheets for the period 1983-88 are  Curent                                 Curre.t
summarized in Annex 5-4.                 424                              30.8
5.13.       The fixed asset base is            ASSETS           UABILMES
grossly underestimated.  The Mid-Term Project Review reassessed asset values,
and estimated that net fixed assets were undervalued by US$80 million in May
1988. Additional adjustments for fiscal year 1988-89 raise this figure to more
than US$100 million. The debt to equity ratio falls from three to less than one
when the revaluation is taken into account. Long-term loans outstanding at June
30, 1989 (excluding grants under the ongoing project) amounted to US$39.7
million, 972 of which is represented by IBRD loans and IDA credits (Annex 5-5).
5.14.       Grants committed to THA by donor countries under the ongoing project
amount to US$141 million equivalent. Approximately two thirds of the total had
been disbursed at the end of fiscal year 1989, most of which does not as yet
appear on TEA's balance sheet. The grants are on-lent to THA by the Government,
although the rate, maturity, currency denomination and grace period of the on-
lending contract have not yet been determined. As part of its new financial
strategy, TEA would repay the Government all grants under the ongoing project
except those associated with technical assistance (i.e. a total of about US$107
million equivalent) over the next twenty years. The interest rate would be 112
and the loans would be denominated in the currencies of the original grants,
although payments would be made in TShs. Under these terms, the ongoing project
grants would create a debt servicing obligation of US$13.5 million equivalent
p.a. from 1990 onwards. This would limit the amount of cash TEA has available
for expansion projects but should not place an unmanageable constraint on its
capital investment program.
5.15.       TEA's cash position is comfortable and amounts currently to US$35
million equivalent or nine months of operating revenues. More than 80 of the
position is In TShs, which raises concerns, in so far as the real yield on cash
holdings in TShs is negative (TEA is receiving a nominal interest rate of 20-
252, while inflation is running at about 30S p.a.). Assuming a 202 p.a. real
appreciation of the US Dollar, current cash management practices translate into
losses of US$5-6 million losses each year.



- 52 -
D. Corporate Financial Strategy
5.16.       TEA Board and the Government have agreed to the following changes
in THA's financial policy: (i) repayment to the Government of the fixed asset
component of existing donor grants, as well as all past and future World Bank
funds on-lent to TH# and all future grants; (ii) debt-to-equity ratio to be kept
below 60:40; (iii) adoption of a dividend policy; (iv) institution of a well-
funded but rigorously administered productivity incentive scheme; (v) investment
of cash reserves in higher yielding assets; and (vi) tariff structure to be used
as a means of altering the behavior of port users, as well as a cost recovery
mechanism. A detailed description of the new policy is provided in Annex 5-6.
The Project Agreement includes the provision that THA shall not make any changes
to its Corporate Financial Stategy without the prior agreement of the
Association.
5.17.       Implementation of the policy changes described above will allow THA
to become considerably more commercially minded in its strategic decision-making
and In its day-to-day operating activities. In particular, it will have the
following beneficial effects:
(i)   Capital investment decisions will be improved, since THA will be
somewhat capital constrained and will have to prioritize among
different investment possibilities. The uses to which donor grants
are put will be more critically evaluated, both in terms of fixed
asset investment and expenditure on technical assistance.   This
effect is already evident in THA's revisions of its technical
assistance and training program;
(ii)  'The incentive scheme will improve TMA's administrative and operating
efficiency. Given the physical constraints to further expansion of
the port of Dar es Salaam, increased productivity is the only way
the port will manage to handle the mounting traffic levels that are
forecast to materialize over the next few years;
(iii) In addition to achieving full cost recovery, pricing decisions will
also take into account THA's long-term needs. Tariffs will be used
as a strategic tool to influence the behavior of port users, so that
the demand for scarce resources such as container storage space is
dampened, without reducing its net contribution;
(iv)  Adherence to a target leverage ratio and a business-like dividend
policy will have two eff'ects: in bad times, it will prevent TMA from
taking on more debt than its operating cash flows justify; and, in
good times, it will eaable THA to decide its dividends based on its
own financial performance and cash needs rather than on other
extraneous factors. It was agreed at negotiations that TMA would
maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of less than 60:40; and



- 53 -
(v)    The Government will receive a relatively predictable stream of income
which, from 1990191, is forecast to be in excess of US$25 million
p.a.
S. Finacial Forecast
5.18.          Assuming the new financial policy is adopted and the project goes
ahead, cash flow available for investment is expected to increase from US$15
million in 1988-89 to US$21 million in 1996-97, with a dip to US$8 million in
1990-91, all in constant 1989 US Dollars (Table 5.2). Interest payments will
rise substantially in 1990-91, when the grace period expires for the ongoing
project's credits and grants (now all "loans"), and again in 1995-96 for the
proposed project. Depreciation will rise dramatically over the next two years
due to the asset revaluation and new investments. These projections demonstrate
that THA has the financial capacity to repay all grants and credits to the
Government, introduce the incentive scheme and still have enough cash for capital
investments. Government receipts of taxation, interest and principal repayments
are forecast to grow to at least US$40 million p.a. by the late 1990s.
Table 5.'
THA CASH FLOW FOARBAST
Consa nt 1969 USS m; mdIion
Your Ending 30/6:              1989    19o    1991    192.   1993    1994    1s99    1996    1997
OPATIT teVBJ6                 87.0    65.2    69.8    77.6    82.9   $8.1    94.0   100.8   107.0
OPWATIJ COSTS                  22.0    22.0    22.7    23.7    24.6   24.6    2s.3   26.1   26.9
INYmIVE SCHIEE                 0.0    9.2    9.2       9.2    9.2    9.2    9.2    9.2         9.2
PRI     Y T 04ARO               1.0    0.8    4.8      4.1     3.8     8.8    8.2    8.0    2.8
INTT ON GRANTS AND NEW IDA     0.0    0.0    11.8    11.6    11.4    11.2   10.9   19.4    18.8
OEU'CIATION                    0.9    4.7    7.0       8.5    6.9      9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
OPRATIO SRPUS                  88.1    26.8    14.1    20.8   26.1    30.6   86.4    83.6   40.8
TAXATION                       16.6    14.2    7.0    10.8    12.5   15.8    11.2   16.8    20.2
PATDO SUWUS AFTR TAXES         16.6    14.2    7.0    10.8    12.8    18.8    V.2   16.8   20.2
CASH RLW MM 0PATIM             17.5    16.9    14.0    18.8    21.4    24.8    27.1   26.8    29.1
PRIR Pk1CIPAAL REPAID          2.4    2.8    3.9    8.1    8.2         8.3    2.4    2.4    2.4
PRNC. R1PAID ON RA N EW  DA    0.0    0.0    1.7       1.9    2.1    2.8    2.8    5.1    8.6
CASH AVAILABLE FOR INV28ENTS   15.1    16.6    8.4    18.8    16.1   18.7    22.2   16.8    21.1
Pymnte To Treasury:
TAXATION                       16.6    14.2    7.0    10.3    12.5    16.8    18.2   16.8    20.2
INTtT PA'fEQ8                  0.2    0.1    1S.7    18.2    14.8    14.4    14.0   22.2    21.5
PRV=PAL RfPAUENrS              0.8    0.8    4.1    8.5    8.7         8.9    4.2    6.7       7.2
TOTAL                          17.6   Lb.1    26.8    29.0    31.0    88.6    36.4   45.7    48.9



- 54 -
5.19.       The cash flow forecasts described in Table 5.2 are based on the
following assumptimnst
(i)   The new tariff structure implemented in 1989 will increase revenues
by 8Z. As a result of Dar es Salaam port's increased efficiency and
competitiveness versus other ports, and in cognizance of its
relatively low tariffs by international standards, an additional
tariff increase of 52 in real terms is assumed to take place in
1992;
(ii)  Revenues increase in line with total dry traffic growth;
(iii) Until 1993-94, operating costs increase by the amount needed to
maintain and operate the additional civil works and equipment
included in the project; from 1994-5, total operating costs are
assumed to grow at 32 p.a.;
(iv) The incentive scheme is adopted, with annual payments of US$9.2m;
(v)   THA's net fixed assets grow from US$15 million in 1988 to US$127
million in 1990, because of new investments, completion of capital
work in progress and revaluation of old assets. Between 1990 and
1994, assets grow by a further US$52 million due to the proposed
project. From 1994 onwards, no asset growth is assumed. Average
straight line depreciation period is 20 years; and
(vi) The grants under the ongoing project are repaid from 1990-91; those
under the proposed project are repaid from 1995-96.
These forecasts implicitly assume a constant real TShlUSD exchange rate. As
noted in para. 5.06, a depreciation of the TSh versus the US Dollar would improve
the profitability of operations.
5.20.       Based on a simplified foreign exchange cash statement (Table 5.3),
it appears that foreign exchange is not a binding constraint, assuming 652 of
revenues are in foreign exchange and as long as THA is indeed able to retain
352 of its foreign exchange revenues. In 1986-87 and 1987-88, THA retained only
14? and 28? respectively of its foreign exchange earnings. THA's only recurrent
obligations in foreign exchange relate to interest payments, spare parts and tug
boat servicing in Mombasa, but foreign exchange is also needed for capital
investments outside the scope of the IDA project. Investment capacity in foreign
exchange will lie in the US$8-13 million range in the period to 1995, which
should be sufficient for THA's needs.



- 55 -
Table 5.3
Summarized ForeiRn ExchanAe Cash Statement
Constant USS million
Year Ending 80/6:    1988  198   1990  1991  192   1998  1994  1995
-----  -----~--
ACT   EST   FCST  FCST  FCST  FCST  FCST  FCST
TOTAL REVENUES     56.6  67.0  86.2  69.8  77.6  62.9  68.1  94.0
FX REVENUES        88.2  87.1   42.4  46.0  60.4   53.9  57.8  61.1
FX RETAINED ()     27.7  86.0  85.0  86.0  85.0  86.0  85.0  85.0
FX RETAINED (AMOUNT)  10.0  18.0   14.8  15.8  17.7  16.9  20.0  21.4
SPARE PARTS         8.5   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   7.0   7.0   7.0
TUG SERVICINC       1.2   1.2   1.2   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.6   1.6
FX INTEREST PAYMENTS   0.9   0.6   0.7   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.8   0.2
FX AVAILABLE       ----   ---   ----  ----   -       -      ---
FOR INVESTMENT     6.3   6.6   8.6   8.4  10.8  10.6  11.4  12.8
F. Financial Rate of Return
5.21.       The project's financial rate of return (FRR) is 142.  The FRR is
less than the ERR because many of the project's economic benefits accrue to
Tanzanian traders and consumers rather than to THA.   Nevertheless, THA can
acquire some of these benefits through higher tariffs; and, as a result of the
project, it will have lower operating costs and the additional revenue generated
by increased traffic. Table 5.4 below summarizes the project's financial costs
and benefits.
5.22.       In addition to those used in forecasting THA's cash flow (see para.
5.19), the following assumptions have been adopted in calculating the project's
FRR.   First, the project affects dry cargo at Dar es Salaam only, which is
assumed to account for 77Z of TRA's total revenues and costs. Second, without
the project, operating costs would rise at the same rate as traffic, probably
an underestimate since operations would become increasingly complex as the port
becomes more and more congested. Third, without the project, there would be no
tariff increase in 1992. Indeed, congestion would be getting so dire by that
date that shipowners would probably be charging the port substantial demurrage
charges. Finally, the calculation of the FRR, like that of the ERR, has assumed
that the project life is 15 years, after which there is zero salvage value.
Since capacity expansions today will still be providing additional revenue to
THA in 2005 and beyond, an FRR of 142 is clearly on the conservative side. In
any event, although it is significantly less than the ERR, it still represents
a net present value of US$15 million at a 102 discount rate.
5.23.       The financial rate of return is even more sensitive to total traffic
growth than the economic rate of return, owing to the fact that its major benefit
stream consists of higher revenues from additional traffic. If total traffic
grows at 902 of the rate forecast (i.e. 5.92 p.a. instead of 6.52 p.a. between



- 56 -
1989 and 1997), the project has negative net present value from THA's financial
standpoint.   However, in addition to the conservative assumptions enumerated
above, the same risk reducing features described in Chapter IV apply to the
project's financial return as they do to its economic return.
TdlAC  S.4
us 008
1990    1991    1992    1"9    1T4    1998    1996    197  1998-20
PROJECT COSTS:                        ~ ~       ~~~~~~~~~   ~~~
CAPrTAL D4EVT                 (6,487)  (15,644)  (42.061)  (18,8M   (8,429)  0   0       0
MVITBOMC AND OpTBTO CBSTS       (89)   (890)  (2,868)  (2,660)  (2,66S)  (8.33e)  (8,386)  (8,8)  (8,68
EV84E (Dry Cargo Through Dar)
Without Project              80,210  88,870   86,92   60,837  62,973   62,978  62,978  62,973   62.97
With Project                 60,210   88,870  59,799   68,879  67,861   72,s88 s .207   82,as2  82,85
SBefiit                          0       0    2,848   8.042   4,888   9,411   14,285  19,880   19.88
OPUTI COSTS
Without ProJect              17,448   18,46   19,79l  21,141   21,08   21,888  21.88   21,888   21,8       e
Vith Project                 16,940   16,940   16,940   16,940   16,940   17,448  18,321   19,287   19,29
Saving                         a08   1,606   2,881   4,201    4,948   4,435   8,868   2,647   2,oC
Er SE                          (6,68)  (14,428)  (8,745)  (9,.29)   8,718   10,468  14,414   18,644   16,64
RR      1
WV   15s,17
VI.  AGRMERTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
6.01.         During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following pointss
(a)    The Incentive Scheme to be instituted by October 1, 1990 (para 2.29);
(b)   All investments not included in the Project, larger than US$2 million
equivalent for civil works and US$ 500.000 equivalent for equipment
to 'e undertaken only after consultation with IDA, and an annual
financial plan to be jointly reviewed by IDA and THA by March 31 of
each year before being effected (para 2.35);
(c)   No material change to be made in THA's Corporate Financial Strategy
without prior agreement with IDA, including the commitment to repay,
according to an agreed schedule, the principal and interest owed on
all debts to the Government (para 2.35);
!
U



- 57 -
(d)   THA to attain annual productivity,  equipment availability and
container dwell time targets as agreed with IDA (para 3.07);
(e)   the Port Development Study to be completed and the recommended
development plan submitted for IDA review by June 30, 1992 (para
3.14);
(f)   The Project implementation schedule (para 3.19);
(g)   Preparation by THA of quarterly reports and a project completion
report (para 3.20);
(h)   Annual audits of THA's accounts, the Project accounts, the Special
Accounts and Statements of Expenditure to be submitted to the
Association no later than six months after the end of THA's fiscal
year (para 3.26,; and
Ci)   TMA to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of less than 60:40 (para
5.17).
6.02.       Conditions of Credit effectiveness are as follows:
Ca)   THA to conduct a thorough census of its workforce (para 2.29);
(b)   THA to submit to the Association the report and recommendations of
its study on the operational guidelines for the Incentive Scheme
Cpara 2.29); and
cc)   Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
THA (para 3.18).
6.03.       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Credit to the Government in the amount of SDR 28.9 million
(US$37.0 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
ANNEXES



Annex 1-1
Page 1 of 6
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Past Lending in the TransRort Sector
PRJJECT NAME        First Higxway Projects
(Cr. 48-TA/Cr. 115-TA for US$17.0 million)
PPAR NO.             791 of June 26, 1975
1.        The US$14 million credit (48-TA) of February 1964 was to finance the
foreign exchange cost of engineering and construction of eight road sections.
Shortly thereafter, most expatriate staff in the Roads and Aerodromes Division
(RAD) of the Ministry of Communications and Works left the country.   RAD's
professional manpower was depleted and project implementation seriously delayed.
In addition, the work quantities of the project, based on preliminary engineer-
4ng, had been underestimated, and prices had escalated. IDA reappraised and
revised the project, and provided a USS 3 million supplementary credit (115-
TA) in March 1968. The revised project was to: retain detailed engineering and
construction of 533 mi of six of the eight road sections, extend detailed
engineering of the section of the Tanzam Highway between Morogoro and Iringa
from 104 mi to 142 mi but omit construction; include detailed engineering of
feeder roads (110 mi of four secondary roads and 98 mi of tertiary roads) on the
Geita Peninsula as well as a five-year program of staffing and training for RAD;
and omit construction of the Musoma-North Mara road section.
2.        Road construction was completed satisfactorily by 1970, and the
detailed engineering work was carried out as envisaged. Engineering of the
Horogoro-Iringa section was subsequently implemented under the Second Highway
Project. Engineering of the Geita Roads, after further revision, became the
basis for their upgrading under the Third Highway Project. The staffing and
training program was carried out to a limited extenit because of slowness in
recruiting expatriates and shortage of African staff to be trained. The actual
cost of the revised project was USS 22.2 million, or 32 less than estimated.
The Project was completed in July 1973.
PROJECT NAME              Second Highway Project
(Ln. 586-TA/Cr. 142-TA for US$22.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4030 of June 30, 1982
3.        The project approved in February 1969 assisted the construction of
two difficult sections, aggregating 499 km, of the Tanzam Highway. The goal
of providing Zambia with a reliable outlet to the sea was effectively achieved,
contrary to appraisal expectations, Zambia traffic did not abandon the highway
when the TAZARA railway was opened in 1975. The actual cost of the project was
US$35.2 million, or 7 X less than estimated.  The Project was completed in
December 1978.



Annex 1-1
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT NAME              East Africa Community
Second and Third Harbour Project
(Loans 638 and 865-EA for US$61.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4029 of June 30, 1982
4.        The two projects approved in July 1969 and January 1972 were to help
implement the East African Harbours Corporation (EAHC) 1969-72 and 1972-74
development programs.   In addition to various  smaller modernization aad
improvement works, the program included, at Mombasa, the construction of a
specialized wharf to handle bulk cement, two deep-water berths, a single buoy
tanker mooring, and the completion of three berths started under a previous
Bank-financed project. In addition, at Tanga the programs included improvement
of lighterage facilities.
5.        Completion of the civil works significantly increased the capacity
of these ports and assisted the East African Community, until its demise in
1977, in expediting its foreign trade. Without the projects the economies of
Kenya and Tanzania, but also of Uganda, Zambia, Rwanda and Burundi, would have
faced serious constraints, and congestion at both Mombasa and Dar es Salaam
ports would have reached levels well beyond the proportions which prevailed in
the early 19708. The two projects had joint cost overruns of about 30Z counting
only the items which were completed by December 31, 1981. The actual project
cost was about US$136.7 million.
PROJECT NAME              East Africa Community
Third Railway Project
(Lns. 638 and 865-EA for US$42.4 million)
PPAR NO.                  4533 of June 30, 1983
6.        The project was approved to assist East African Railways (EAR) in
implementing a policy package designed to streamline the Railway's tariff
structure and bring down its costs to allow it to recoup profitable business
.it had lost to road transport and effectively compete with trucking in the
future, while at the same time remaining a commercially viable operation. The
project involved actions on two fronts: realignment of tariffs, and implemen-
tation of an investment and cost reduction program.
7.        On completion the project had failed to achieve full implementation
on either objective. Full implementation of a cost-based tariff structure was
not achieved, because the economic, political and operational consequences of
implementing the new tariff were not foreseen.   Full implementation of the
investment and the cost reduction programs failed to materialize because of the
Borrower's financial troubles, caused by political differences among the Member
Governments in the East African Community.   The estimated project cost was
US$90.8 million; the actual cost is unknown.



Annex 1-1
Page 3 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Third Highway Project
(Cr. 265-TAlLn. 586-TA for US$6.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  4031 of June 30, 1982
8.        The  Third Highway  Project,  approved  in  July  1971,  was  later
supplemented by a transfer of a USS 1.9 million surplus from Loan 586-TA
originally approved for the Second Highway Project. These funds were to help
finance: the construction of 200 km of the Mtwara-Mingoyo-Masasi road in
southern Tanzania; the improvement and maintenance of 475 km of feeder roads
in Geita district (310 km) and Mara region (165 km): and preinvestment studies,
consultant costs for supervision, technical assistance and training.
9.        The project was not a success, although two of its components (paving
the road between Mtwara and Masasi and carrying out preinvestment studies) were
realized. However, the first was accomplished with significant cost overruns
(215Z), and the second with significant qualifications. Improvement of feeder
roads in the Geita peninsula and the Mara region were short-lived. Training of
Tanzanian engineers met limited success, and the staffing program was not
carried out. The actual cost of the project, which was completed on December
1978, was US$25.2 million, 265Z above estimates. The project closed in December
1978.
PROJECT NAME              Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Cr. 507-TA for US$10.2 million)
PPAR NO.                  6483 of November 7, 1986
10.       The project approved in September 1974 was the first of a two-phase
effort to establish a trunk road maintenance organization.  The first phase
covered about 3,300 km of trunk roads in the southern half of the country and
the second phase, which was financed under the Fifth Highway Project (Credit
876-TA), covered about 5,100 km of trunk roads in the northern half of the
country. The project was the outcome of a *Tanzania Highway Maintenance and
Organization Study' which was carried out in 1972 by consultants financed by
the United States Agency for International Development.
11.       Little progress was achieved over the first six years because of the
inability of COMWORKS to utilize adequately the technical assistance. COMWORKS
proposed a recasting of the project which was eventually approved by IDA in
1981. The final agreement called for the procurement of spare parts, few pieces
of equipment and technical assistance. COMWORKS undertook to execute a highway
maintenance program consisting of resealing 214 km, regravelling 186 km,
pavement repairs for 840 km, and routine maintenance of a network which had
expanded from 3,300 km at the beginning of project in 1974 to 4,900 km in 1979
with the incorporation of more roads into the network to be maintained by
COMWORKS. The project was closed on December 31, 1982 with US$ 0.86 million of
the original Credit of US$ 10.2 million cancelled. There was little improve-
ment in routine maintenance and standards of resealing and regravelling.



Annex 1-1
Page 4 of 6
12.       COMWORKS had an inadequate implementation capacity and found it
difficult to fill vacant positions, particularly engineers. Senior staff were
engaged in the day-to-day running of the ministry vith not much time left to
administer and attend to the requirements of the technical assistance staff
financed by the project. The actual project cost was US$10.5 million, 842 of
estimates. The project closed in December 1982.
PROJECT NAME              Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement
Project (Cr. 743-TA for US$15.0 million)
PPAR NO.                  7571 of December 30, 1988
13.       The Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project approved
in October 1977 was to finance the foreign exchange costs of trunks, technical
assistance and workshop facilities for selected public companies, provide
foreign exchange to Government in support of the liberalization of spare parts
imports and provide assistance to a transport industry training institute.
14.       The project was to support Government's efforts to reverse the deter-
iorating trend in truck transport, to be achieved mainly through assistance to
the public sector segment of the industry: (i) to strengthen the operating
capability of selected companies in regions where agricultural activity was
severely constrained by inadequate truck transport services through procurement
and rehabilitation of trucks and through strengthening of management and
management information systems; and (ii) to put these trucking companies on a
sound financial footing through both operating improvements and covenanted
requirements for adequate rates to ensure that they can be self-financing.
15.       Project components included: (i) provision of trucks and spare parts
for the rehabilitation of trucks and for five selected RETCOs; (ii) technical
assistance for management operations and training of staff of the selected
RETCOs; (iii) provision of workshop equipment for the selected RETCOs; (iv)
strengthening of the recently-established National Institute of Transport
through the provision of instructors, teaching aids and equipment; (v)
replenishment of the country's inventory of spare parts; and (iv) provision of
technical assistance to the project implementation agency, NTC, for project
coordination, monitoring and policy advice.
16.       The project represented the Bank Group's first direct assistance to
the Tanzania trucking industry. As such, it was a logical extension of its
close involvement in the development of Tanzania's road network. Assistance
to the industry was provided in the context of strong Government commitment to
the development of the regional trucking companies (RETCOs) whose operating
performance has been satisfactory, given the constraints under which they
operate. However, this performance has been attained and is, at least for the
near future, sustainable only with a significant input of technical assistance.
Nonetheless, given the much poorer operating performance of other parastatal
transport operations, the assistance to the RETCOs has been a satisfactory use
of the Association's resources. The actual project cost was US$21.4 million,
172 above estimates. The project closed in June 1985.



Annex 1-1
Page 5 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Fifth Highway Project
(Cr. 876-TA for US$20.5 million)
PPAR NO.                  6938 of September 15, 1987
17.       This project, approved in January 1979, was the second phase of the
effort to establish a trunk road maintenance organization in the country. and
the Fifth Project included the establishment of routine maintenance capability
for about 5,100 km of primary roads in the northern half of the country, the
rehabilitation and regravelling of about 2,040 km of trunk roads, procurement
of road maintenance and rehabilitation equipment, construction of road
maintenance camps, workshops, and housing and technical assistance and training.
18.       Procurement of equipLent, vehicles, and spares was affected by initial
delays due to differences of views between the Government and IDA over the
sufficiency of notification for ICB. When this was resolved and delivery was
due, the 1983-1984 suspension of disbursements by IDA for all projects in the
country caused further delays and most of the items of equipment did not arrive
until late 1984. Two advisors were appoint on an individual basis and two key
advisors were provided by a consulting firm. They all arrived separately over
a period of two years. Thus, from the beginning it was difficult to adopt a
coordinated approach.
19.       The project fell short of completing its physical objectives and some
of the works carried out have fallen into disrepair due mainly to the poor
quality of the original works.   Maintenance of roads has been instituted, but
the quality of the work still does not keep the road in acceptable condition.
Training at the Highway Authority's facilities at Morogoro improved, but local
personnel were not yet able to take over as instructors at the end of the
program. About 120 students graduated as engineers at Indian universities.
20.       A major disappointment was that the quality of the roads did not
improve as expected although the funds were spent.  What went wrong was that
a few critical elements needed to actually perform the maintenance work were
missing. When the labor and material were available, the equipment was not
operational for lack of spare parts or fuel or tires, etc. As a result, some
of the roads have crumbled to the point where reconstruction at a high cost is
required. The actual cost was US$22.5 million, 88Z of estimate. The project
closed in December 1985.
PROJECT NAME              Port Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1536 TA for US$27.0 million)
PLANNED COMPLETION        December 31, 1989
21.       The  project  approved  in was  is designed  to provide  for the
rehabilitation and modernization of the port of Dar-es-Salaam which, besides
being Tanzania's major port, also serves as an important regional port for
Burundi, Malawi, Zaire, Rwanda and Zambia. The project would provide special
container handling facilities and equipment, replace some deteriorated general
cargo equipment, modernize grain handling facilities rehabilitate lighterage
facilities and the petroleum jetty, repave sections of berths, and provide for
a review of additional rehabilitation requirements, technical assistance,
training and consultancy services.



Annex 1-1
Page 6 of 6
PROJECT NAME              Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project
(Credit 1688-TA for US$50 million)
PLANNED COMPLETION December 31, 1991
22.       The project, approved in May 1986, is to reduce constraints by
transport on the economy by rehabilitating the most important sections of the
highway network. An important project objective is to improve the system of
road maintenance works by contract rather than by force account. It would also
increase the capabilities of the local contracting industry, provide assistance
to expand the capacity and efficiency of the trucking industry, and increase the
availability of trained engineers in Tanzania. The Executing Agencies are the
Ministry of Communications and Works, the Ministry of Education, the National
Construction Council, and the National Transport Corporation. Cofinancing from
DANIDA (USS 2.0 million equivalent), NORAD (USS 6.9 million equivalent) and a
loan from the ADF (USS 19.4 million equivalent).
23.       The project consists of: (a) a road rehabilitation program consisting
of the rehabilitation of about 295 km of the TANZAM Highway, and 700-1000 km of
gravel roads; (b) an equipment rehabilitation program; (c) a maintenance spares
supply program to the trucking industry; (d) assistance to the local contracting
industry; (e) TA and consulting services for construction supervision,
agricultural  feeder  roads  study  and  feasibility  studies  and  detailed
engineering; and (f) training.



TAWA
PM HOZauTI0 PRQ.= n                                            Anbm 2-1
OAR ES SALAAM PM
CEEAL CARU TRUWIC
('0tO TOMS)
IMwPs                        1988        4    1o8 l8I  l7  i1        w        lws Grano  at. C3)
A. Dry Cargo
(1) Tanzania                    u6       66o7      709       an8      724       8r0      16
(iU) Tranait - Zaombi            28       292       257        61      804       486      1.21
- Za,r               4         a        it       to        14        as      1.8
- Burundi           51        as        B7       so        7         7?      18.
- Rwanda                       6       28        19        J8        n       1."
- Maltwi            26        is        1o        4         9        JO      1.6
- Uganda            21        25        5         1        48        U       1.01
Sub-Total Tranait              M0       899      872       400       47        670     1.14
TOTAL DRY CARGO VWS          866     1.06      1.0l1    l,O61     1,2       1.240     1.87
8. Patrol.m Product.
(i) Tanania                     614      671       681       S8u       748
(i ;) Zaabl,                     881      466       247       207       498
(iUi) others                       0        0         0         0        0
Total Patroleum Product        998    1.187      1.078    1.042    1.24       1.766     1.12
C. Oth-r Liquids                  17        a        is        12         9        14     0.61
TOTAL DIPORTS            1.,78    2.211    2,174    2,185    2.4b2    S,OI           1.1
EXPORTS                      iw        1904     1908      to"       1987      11 Drom  Rb
A. Dry Cargo
(i) Tanzania                    100      19        148      l8       274                1.11
(-i) Tranait - Zmbla             408      459       418       898      467                o."
- Zaire             87        68        62       5         46        87      1.00
- Burundi           S2        29       87        8         87        48      1.06
..Rwanda             0         0        0         0         1         0      1.08
Malawi               a         a       20        12        u2        11     1.8t
-Uands              0        18        1s        is 4U              87      1.iS1
Sub-Total Transit              497       874      860       81        as       8u       1.60
TOtAL DRY CARO EXPWS         608       788      700       670       680       6N      1.68
8. Patrol.. Product
(l) TanxanIa                    I1O      218       120       107       148        7      O."
C Others                          12       28         7        20        12      1S       1.68
TOTAL EPORS                727       974       08       797     1,05i                1.01
CRTS & EXPORi                18S   1i94   l9wo             woe   1SW7    1son Gran  b00s
A. Dry Corgo
(i) Tanzania                    624      m         857       786      96        a8       1.61
(li) Trana-t-Zanbi               m8       751       67        749      m         en       1.6
- Zeir              61        78        7J       69        60        t0      1.06
- 8urundi           ba        84        94      125       110       1I       1.14
- Rands              8         6       28        19        88        6       1.10
- NalavI            29        21       44        is        21        41      1.07
- Utands            21        88       2S        17        06        SI      1.0
Sub-Total Transit              047       975      9W2       99      1.064    1.06       1.07
TOTAL CRY CARO         1,471     1,799     1.789    1,711    2.012    2,an         1.07
S. Petroleum Product.          1.108     1.850    1.198    1.169    1.864       1,68      1.11
C. others                         29      a8         22        82        21       27      0.68
TOTAL X119C' A MMRT        2.605    8,188    8,009      2,e92    8.487    8,O8         1.0S
FILE: PORTIA



TAINIAA
PMRT Hoo       IR POoJl II                                  Annex  2-2
OMe BS 61     PORT
CNTAIt CARO TRAFIC
QU      F 03XSa)
D s01                 1988      19814    19        19U6     1967     19            AVOERPAE O      MTE
A. NIsi TO IiWE
(1) Tanznia                  8,784    7.424    9,809   12,199   18,874   18,019                 1.21
(1i) Transit - Zabia          2.417    8.841    s,s69    2,026      ,0aX    5.028                1.16
- hlala           226       801      710        90      688       848              1.19
- Z8BR             Ol     1.20S    1.48      1,142    2.295    8,10                1.28
- Uganda           84        21       49        61      265       198               1.29
Sub-Toal Transit            8.814    4.871    6.207    4.119    8.481    8,939                 1.20
TOTAL HSE TO HOEu         g.a1.   22.298   16.016   18,S18   22,085   28,6981                1.21
B. PoRT To Por
(I) FPl 1                    2,887    8.8l6    8.o08     6,046    4.798    4.982                1.12
(Vi) ewpt                     1,649    2.280      562       488    1.6S9    2.149                1.08
TOTAL PiR TO PORT         4.706    6.111    6.,99    8.886    6.662    7,131                 1.09
ToTAL UWORT COI4TAD4M    14.074   18.406   22.614   22.884   28,717   31,069                 1.17
cm)
(PORs                 1988      19814    1905      1966     1987     1988           AVERAGE 84a  RATE
A. HMe TO MLSE
(1) Tna  is                  4,688    4,698    8.01    4,72z    6,251    9,291                  1.15
(1i) Trnit - Zbl                944    1.S52    2,22S    8,241    8,098    4,.68                 1.8S
= tlai          288    1,800      1.766      892      971       628               1.17
-ZOR             1,18    2.47    2,577    2,087    1,684    2.770                   1.18
- Uganda            0       6         17       62    1.888    1,870                 1.2S
Sub-Totl Tranet             2,748    8,769    7.388    6,802    7,491    9,921                 1.29
TOTAL HlSE TO HISE        7,884   10,486   12,419   11,2S0   18,742   19.212                 1.21
. PORT TO POr
0i) uil                         0         0        0         0        0 O
r l) empty                    4.958    8.69    8.67s    6,809    4,242    8,897                  1.08
TOTAL POtT TO PORT        4,958    8,869    86,79    6,309    4.242    6,397                 1.08
TOTAL WoRo cONrAv        12,842   14.084   1s,0o9    17.889   17.984   28.609                1.16
(U)
3n95   S DexoRts               1988     1984      1        1i98     1987      lse8          AVeE nFH RATE
2                                -        - _                -    -    -_                        --
A. lOE   (0 HOE
(1) Tanzania                10.a90   122120   14,840   16,927   n82S.  24,810                   1.19
(i) Tranalt - Zambia          8.861    4.68s    6.187    6.067    6.481    9.681                 1.24
- alawi            "11    1,801    2,476       682    1,609    1.16                1.18
-  ,             2.4se s .,5       4,086    8,179    4.189    8,980                1.20
- UJnda            84       621      8B8       898    1.82=    2,068               1.2?
Sub-Total Tranit            6.862   10.640   13,895   10,621   18.972   18.860                 1.24
TOTAL H1USE TO HUMB      16.752   22,760   28.4sa   27,48   a6,797   48,170                 1.21
B. PORT TO PORT
(i) Full                     2,887    8,881    6.086    0,048    4,798    4,982                 1.08
(i ) Ewt                      6,807    8,799    6,241    6,797    8.111    o8,48                 1.08
TOTAL PRT TO PORT         9.64    9,880   12,277   12,848   10.904   18.852                  1.07
TOTAL CAMTAM             28.416   82,440   40,712   40,898   46.701   86.696                 1.17
A. Pull                19.609   26,6141   84,471   8,56s   40.590   46.182                 1.15
U. Wey                  4,807    8.7s9    6,241    6,797    6.111    6.848                 1.08
Fi1   POR75



TAD
P0R6    T     iRUATW  PROJE! SI
on ouiaN ua MRLOMn
(low tS .)
Amu,I
Ite                           1980   1981   1982    196    1sE4   196   1986   1987  9low  Carmt Fteb
Cm,tain*r.                     88     62      91    114    l16    194    167    219    27               1.30
Brak-Sulk                     674    61l    55       459    5       614    4s 6 61i   589               0.97
Total Exporti                     77    67a    646    6o         780    706    670    6s8    s81            1.02
ContaIe.                       Ss     96    162    187    220    8ll    898    876    897               1.21
Sr..-Mbfk                   1,06    9sa7  1,000    7e    847    7m          788    824    048           0.97
Tot a w ort                     1.1  1,    8 a   1,162    i3  1,OB7  1,068   1.06    1,202   1,240          1.01
Tobel Contaimerat
Containers                   11     186    258    2n       8S6     an       10 8o   7      674         1.24
Break-Sulk                  1,740  1,548  1,868   1,195   1,416   1,291   1,221  1,485   1,862          0.97
TOTAL                   1,859  1,706   1,      1460  1,7    1.7    1,7I1  2.0B2  2.056               1.01
Perotu"a Containerized:
Espo                           5       9      14      19     22      27      29      28     84          1.28
laporta                        7       9      14      1s     21      29      8o      81     82          1.20
TOTAL                       6      9      14    1i        21     26      29      29      as         1.98



Annex 2-4
I   *.eg..aa. *    *@6e.b6e S  e
j   . 'gsinuagI                i  q geta  
}  ~ ~ !'t'$   '                38zvo  o
II   8CSlII38j   2      3!tI   Ul8g.8  8S
13SiUPI            aRauar!a      I
~i                   *""l*l|lk       US3S5jt |i  II
gj       |$l U333#j |  a3}|Rws1;  i j    I
|   I  tUSSSU I   jjj    a2U38,;;U 3!l    II 
|  get||p8 Sii- i     Il           I  |



TANZANIA HAO.4S  ATrHOItM
PORT NIOCR4TION PROJECT It
CQNTADSR PESEIRATION RATE
_____________________________
('00C TMe)
1968                                                                                            1940
isEgm's           xPORT5                                  TOTAL                             Dram                             EX2T                        T7ML
e.C.    C4T        I    e     .C.    eeeT         2 C      .C.    CMT         I       e      .c.        cow         I        0.c.    cow         I    e     .c.    cm
T*Emm             a1       III      22          1o0      72       67         624     1O        to               70         274       48         20       14       46         d0       4        40
ZMA               26a       61      12          405      is        4         m        46        7              489         s6       1s          ae       e7       17         a2      ISO       i
ZA8                 4                            57                           61                                aS                               57                           go
MAN=              81       12      so          U        2S      26           es       s      2?               T7           4       25           4       40      40          U        8        so
NWAM                5                            0               o                                              69                                0                           6O
WAAZn              2a        4      is           4        4      100          so       a       27               30           7      24           11       e       a           41       16     a8
Uwm                 n21      1       5           0        0       0           n2       1        5                2           a       14          By       n       78          Be       s0      el
TOTAL       ee6     l8        18         6        114      1t        1472        s      19             1240         89?        2         818      277      84         2g6      574      3
AVRSE ANAL 11 PATE 
_-     -- -        _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _     ___   __
2O8                          EXPORT6                      TOTAL
O.C.     e-           e      s.c.    CNT    CP            O.C.    Cl CaR
1.02        1.20    1.17    1.21    1.18    0.94          1.06    1.17         1.10
1.11        1.17    1.06    0.99     1.85    1.86         1.04    1.24         1.19
1.58                         !.O*                         1.06
1.20        1.80    0."      1.6     2.182   1.09          .14    1.19         1.62
1.69                           016
1.06        1.12    1.09    1.22    1.18    0.96          1.06    1.1U         1.06
1.01        1.25    1.21    8.70    2.tD    7.00          1.8S    1.9?         1.61
,.Ot        1.20    1.12    1.06    1.19    1.18          1.07    1.20         1.12
e.C. * TOTAL 0nUlAL CAR0O  RAFPZC
COW! a C2ATA    1RAF1C
CPUR * C2ATADR    1RT01 uinm  RATE
FLEt COINPM



Annex 2-6
Page 1 of 21
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT It
TECHNICAL WORKING PAPERS 1
OPERATIONAL ANALYSIS
I.   Cargo Forecast
Table 1 - Cargo Forecast
II. Cargo Handling Capacity at Perths
Table 2 - Allocation of Cargo to Container and General Cargo Berth
Table 3 - Calculation of Berth Capacity in 1993
III. Traffic Forecast and Storage Requirements for container
Table 4  - Container Storage
Table 5 -  Traffic Forecast and Storage Requirement for Container
IV. Break Bulk Cargo Storage Requirement
Table 6 - Open Storage Capacity at Berth 1-8
Table 7 - Covered Storage Capacity at Berth 1-8
Table 8 - Dwell Time Assumption
Table 9 - Annual Storage Capacity
V.   Performance Indicator
Table 10 - Performance Indicator
VI. Justification of Cargo Handling Equipment for Container Terminal
Table 11 - SSG Capacity, Change (1)
Table 12 - SSG Capacity, Change (2)
Table 13 - Number of Containers Handled by SSG
Table 14 - Number of Containers Handled by SSG
Table 15 - RTG Requirements
Table 16 - Terminal Tractor and Trailer requirement
Table 17 - Cost Table of Container Handling Equiupment
VII. Justification of General Cargo Handling Equipment
Table 18 - Bigger Capacity Forklift
Table 19 - General Cargo Handling Equipment
Table 20 - Cost Table for General Cargo Equiupment
Fig. 1   - The Cargo Flow Pattern and Handling Equipment



Annex 2-6
Page 2 of 21
1. Cargo rorecast
Based on the cargo forecast, the total dry cargo, the container cargo
and the break bulk cargo for 1988 and 1993 are tabulated in the table
below. The Total dry cargo in 1993 is about 2.6 million tons, and the
containerized cargo and break bulk cargo are 1.4 and 1.2 million tons
respectively.
T bl- 1 - Coca torsc t
tUnits ase    cto")
cry Cargo Container Brook Sulk  Nub*r    Dry Cargo   Contalner  Brkak Bulk    N u_r
of TMl                                       of TEUl
Export
Tansanta            449       247      202  17,622          266         184        148
Tranitt             787      416       828  26,617          St?         148        824
Totel Exwort      1,160      662       626  45,689          817         2m         54    19,212
Import
Tanzania            689      862       286  27,644          56          249        821
Transit              7       m 9o76  U,609                  676         146        522
Total Import      1,418      749       664  57,648        1,240         897        648   28,940
Total Export/Import
Tanzania          1,668      698       490  44,666          8SO         J8a        467
Transit           1,511      618       698  59,211        1,207         291        016
Grand Tot I       2,599    1,411    1,189 163,282         2,0657        674      1,868   48,152
II.  Cargo Handling Capacity at berths
Introduction.
The cargo handling activity in this port is roughly divided into
two categories, i.e. the container handling at the container terminal in
berths 9 to 11 and handling of break bulk cargo and containers, which are
carried mainly by conventional cargo vessels, in berths 1 to 8. Therefore,
the estimated cargo is divided into two groups, one for container terminal
and the other for break bulk berths as shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2 -Allocation of Cargo to Container and
General Carao Berths (1993)
(Unit: metric tons)
Carmo Volume          (1993)          Berth 1-8        Berth 9-11
1. Total  Dry Cargo              2,599,000       1,284,000        1,315,000
2. Container Cargo               1,411,000           96,000*      1,315,000
3. Break Bulk Cargo              1,188,000       1,188,000              -
* 6.8Z of container is assumed to be carried by RORO vessels (3.1Z) and
conventional vessels C3.7Z)



Annex 2-6
Page 3 of 21
Container berth
Berths from No. 9 to No. 11 are about 540 m long in total and will be
used as two container berths, each of which is able to accommodate about a
1200 TSU container vessel, Due to a restriction of ship size in the
harbour entrance channel, these berths are used as three berths by smaller
vessels at present. Whether these berths will be used as three berths or
two berths, annual throughput per berth is less than 700,000 tons, while an
annual handling capacity for a container berth is considered to be between
800,000 ton and 1,500,000 tons per berrh.
General cargo berth.
The berth capacity for general cargo berths is assessed according to
the following steps.
1)   to estimate cargo configuration in 1993 based on 1987 data;
2) to assume cargo handling speed for various kiMas of
commodities in 1993 based on the productivity in 1987 (see
Table 10);
3)   to estimate total berth-day required to handle the forecast
cargo ;
4)   to estimate a compound productivity and berth capacity
assuming that maximum berth occupancy ratio is 70180
percent.
The calculation is summarized in the table below and it clearly
indicates that the forecast cargo can be handled by the berths No. 1 to No.
8 notwithstanding tie-up oi operation at one of the eight berths caused by
the rehabilitation work. The berth occupancy reates will be 0,52 for 7
berths.



Annex 2-6
Page 4 of 21
Tabl- S - Calculation of B rth Capacity In 10S.
Carp Typ                       Car"       Productivity cj                  Total sreth
Volume     (ton/berth           Borth-day   Capacity
(ton)     day)                  (day.)
NO/NO containe rild            44,   b/  4,0                    14
R0/JO non-cont.ilnrlaed        07,   *j  J,220                  21
Container on General           62,C       1,92                  27
rai n evl,                     126,       2.q                   6J
Cer non/container              20O,0e    1,40                   149
768,06     ?66                 1,U40
Total Carp                    1,204,m       971d/               1,322      264,ee tjpor berth
(Mo borth eccupone.
1,60,S111 t/7 berths
S/    conliguration for breok bulk caro  i baerd on the aid-term review
report Ro/Ro nen-contain'd, 5.041X Grain bulk, 16.6.7;
Copper, 17.63; other, 66.19
b/    3.11 of contalnr cargo Is carried by Ro/o v- eelo and
3.73 by gonral cargo vesIel. (The oid-term review report.)
j    Beed on the porormanca Indicator (Section V of working paper) and
the mid-trervil_ reort
d/    Compound productivity In 10M
5I.  Traffic Forecast and Storame 1'eauirement for container.
Container storage capacity in different stages is shown in Table 4.
Including additional storage capacity in Kurasini and Ubungo depots, the
present capacity is around 2,500 TEU at a given moment. By the expansion
of storage area in proposed project, storage capacity of about 1200 TEU
will be added in 1992 and about the same amount in 1993, making a total
capacity of 3.800 TEU in 1992 and 5,100 TM in 1993.
Based on the traffic forecast, a dwell time reduction plan and storage
capacity, sufficiency of storage capacity is shown for both 'withO and
wvithout' project cases during a period from 1989 to 1995. In case of
*with the projectO, deficit is not anticipated because of the additional
storage capacity obtained in the open storage area at berth 7. In case of
*without the project, deficit will arise in 1993.



Annex 2-6
Page 5 of 21
Table 4 - Contalner Storns Caaelitw In the Tereinal and Donwt
Present             Ph&s  n-1  (19M2)   Phan nU-            (169)
SouOh       North           South      eorth            South   Nortb
ROW No.                                  (87)         (40)            (87)     (49)              (37)   (40)
Stock E  Ground *lot,                                                  87S                                 40x6
Stack 0  Ground Slot                                                   87x6                                40:6
Stock C  Ground Slot                     87x6                                      1:x6                    3906
Stock B  Ground Slot                     S7x         28x8                          12x6
Stock A  Ground Slot                     S7x0         81xe                           9x6
Slot No.                                  6e6          854              444          186                    a60
Totel Siot No.                                      1,020                            639                    66N
Storage Capacity In Torm.                           2,042                         1,202                   1,822
Storage Capacity In Kurasinl/Ubungo                    486                             0                       0
Additional Capacity                                      0                        1,262                   1,822
Exieting Capacity                                   2,S07                         2,607                   8,769
Total Capecity                                      2,607                         8,769                   5,091
Averag  stacking heIght Is 2.67 boxes and 75 percent of storage capacity
la an actual working capacity.
Ta~   - luf a- Peaate an S~a   Raanwams
:1966    1969     1990o      191     1991     1t98    1994    1998
Actual
leper             18.940   81.018    85.694    41.060   47,99    57,68   61,68    68,007
bporb             19,112   21.966    18,181    81.861   873.89   46,69  30.98    67.094
Leaded       ~~46,181    88,80    62.075    71,44t   85.788  106.292  113.569  128.182
8,408    0.492   10.98      122.779   15.12?  1s2      0.041   29,066
w        os         0.       A91    atom          4.e7    sb.eo7   1s&.a     ab.3s .478
1 ~ ~        56 680   68 " 80    7 06      5 000  10.0e 6    a1 .810  188 68   17 7
a              86te:     1        2U        22       18      is       16       is
-l (Day)
wort s                4        4         4         4        4       4        4       4
Mr Laded Ctr (Day) 26.0        20     16.0       14.2      1s    11.6    10.6       9.9
red Loaded  CM.40    2.960           2,1        21.0    8.060    8.840   8.8o    8.400
=,Ieenor Stoe   (
Available Stmg.
I) 1with th Prje
Off ae 140a  (     21,507    2.507    2.507    21.07    8.769    8.091    8.091    8,091
Beth         ()                0       7m0       706      700      700     700      700
Total        (T91) 2.507    1.807    8,17       ,2W07    4.469    5,71    8.1     5791
Sluo/(Dwflcit)   (68         (440)     490       690    1.418    2,410    2,490    2,810
tl) Witheut the Project
Toul         (TE9) 2,180?    2.07    8,127       ,207   8,127    8,127    8,207    8.a07
Surplum/(Wclci     (688)    (440)      490        890     160   (180)    (90)   (190)



Annex 2-6
Page 6 of 21
IV. Break Bulk Carto Storage requirement.
(1) ExistinR Storage Facilities. In accordance with the UNCTAD
handbook ^Port DevelopmentO, the required stacking area is determined by
dividing the actual net stacking area by an allowance factor of 1.2 for
broken stowage. Design holding capacity is defined as 75Z of actual
holding capacity, in order to provide a reserve of storage capacity to
handle variation in demand.
Details of the areas and holding capacities of the existing covered
and open storage space at each of the berths No. 1 to No. 8 are presented
in Table 6 and Table 7. They show that the existing design holding
capacity of covered and of open storage areas,are about 35,000 tons and
30,000 tons, respectively.
Table 0 - Owen Stereos Capacity at Berths 1-8
Berth   Berth    Berth   Berth    Berth    Berth    Berth */    Berth *t
1       2/8       4        5        0        7            8        1-8
Stocking Area                .2   128,116   10,689   5,310    0,516    0,800    2,000        6,866      52,440
Broken Stoage 10.7X                 2,166    1,780    8on    1,090   1,OS0         445        1,400
Actual Stacking Area         .2    10,701    8,9J6   4,426    6,420   5,260    2,215          6,960     48,856
Stacking Helght              a       1.75      1.76    1.75     1.75     1.75     1.75         1.76
Stowage Facu tr              *8/t       2         2       2        2        2        2            2
Actual Holding Capaclty      tone   9,860    7,790   3,870    4,740    4,690    1,98U        0,116      88,400
75X Holding Capacity         tons   7,020    6,640  2,9016   1,56       8,446    1,455       4,580      28,600
a/ Partly u"d for contlnr storage (2,0660 2)
11M am                   W   o w  -m
*a_
1 2//           tS    7/          2        2      
_________________                              (ha sb  (mi-a)(a day dd             14
Ovrall ae             2d   11.700  16,900  7.600  7.600  WM.640     6.200     10,800      4.S00    81,040
Lose Al layaup ad Office.    2.600  8.as   1,460  1,460  2.750     1.400      2.940        820
t4lt Stacking Ava      s     8,900  13,270  6,840  6,840  12.690    4.710      7S60        8.600
Actual Sta9ing Arm     K     7.410  11.010  ,26   8.250  10,740    8.020      6.810     S.7       5oi80
Stckine Hlaht          a         2     2      2      2      2          2          2           2
Stage Packer           al/t   2.215  2.25   2.25   2.25   2.25       2.25       2.25       2.25
Actual lHlding Capacitl  t   6.590  9.,   4.690   4600  9.l60       8.480      s.es        2.730
7tl Helding Capacity   t     4.940  7.870  8.820   8M20  7.160      2.610      4.220      2.010    a5.sti



Annex 2-6
Page 7 of 21
(2) Dwell ti e Assumptions
It is assumed that containers handled at berths 1-8 will be
transferred very fast to the container terminal. The annual conventional
cargo capacity is calculated by assuming the following dwell times.
1)  Tauizania imports     30 days
2)  Transit imports       10 days
3)  Tanzania exports       5 days
4)  Transit exports        3 days
Assumptions 2) and 4) are considered on the safe side. The situation
in the conventional cargo terminal has been quite extraordinary in 1987.
Because of the construction works in the Container Terminal, most of the
break bulk storage area has been used for stacking containers.
A survey in October 1987 showed that about 1,600 units were placed in
break bulk cargo terminals occupying about 502 of the total open storage
area. It is assumed that with the opening of the Container Terminal, most
containers will be moved to the proper stacking yard, relieving the
congested situation in the break bulk part of the port
Table 8 summarizes the dwell time assumptions.
Table 8 - Dwell Time AssumDtion
Break Bulk     S          Dwell Time
Cargo Volume              (days)
(tons)
Tanzania Import     343,000         27.2       30
Transit Import      392,000         31.L       1a
Tanzania Export     161,000         12.8        5
Transit Export      365,000         28.9        3
Grand Total       1,261,000        100.0S      13
Cargo Configuration 1993



Annex 2-6
Page 8 of 21
(3) Annual Storage Capacity
Table 9 contains the annual storage capacity under the given
assumption.
Table 9 - Annual Storage CaDacitv
Port Section        Type of         Available       Annual
Storage        Holding         Storage
Capacity       Capacity
(tons)         (tons)
Berth 1-8           covered         35,390          993,600
open           28,800          808,600
Total          58,190          1,634,200
Reduced Storage Area*
*    Holding capacity is assumed to be reduced by 6,000 tons, due to the
rehabilitation works.
This indicates that the storage capacity is approximately 1,600,000
tons with an average dwell time of 13 days. The annual storage requirement
is 1,200,000 tons, which is about 75 percent of the storage capacity in
1993. The storage area is sufficient up to 1993.
V. Performance Indicator
In order to improve efficiency of port operation, three kinds of
perforwnsce indicators are to be monitored, i.e. cargo handling speed,
equipment availability and cargo dwell time. As for the first category,
the speed indicator is divided into two sub-categories, one for general
cargo berths and the other for the container terminal. The handling speed
in general cargo berth is given as (a) tons per berth day and (b) tons per
gang shift or tons per shift. This dual definition is because this
indicator will be used for long-term planning purposes such as berth
capacity assessment as well as for day-to-day administration purposes, e.g.
performance monitoring and an incentive scheme. The target in 1993 is
decided based on the discussions with THA officials.



Annex 2-6
Page 9 of 21
Table 10 - PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
---------------------------------
1987                       1992
A. GENERAU CARGO BERTHS              ACTUAL                     TARGET
1.  Dry Bulk                (a)      900 t/berth day   1/2/     2,000 t/berth day
(b)     100 t/grab shift            220  t/grab shift
2. Copper (non-containerized)
(a)     1.000 t/berth day 21        1,400 t/berth day
(b)     250 t/gang shift            350 t/gang shift
3. Containers on Cargo Ships
(a)     960 t/berth day  2/         1.920 t/berth day
(b)     5 box/gang hour             10 box/gang hour
4.  RO/RO (containerized)   (a)      1500 t/berth day           3200 t/berth day
(b)       42 box/shift                89 box/shift
5.  RO/RO (non-containerized)
(a)     1,300 t/berth day 2/        3,200 t/berth day
_        (b)        433 tlshift              1.066 t/shift
6. All Other Break Bulk
(a)     479 t/berth day  2/         750 t/berth day
(b)      60 t/gang shift             95 t/gang shift
1989 Qi                    1992
B. CONTAINER TERMINAL                ACTUAL                     TARGET
1.  Ship-to-Shore Gantries           16 box gang/hour           20 box/gang hour
2.  Ship's Gear                       5 box/gang hour           10 box/gang hour
3.  Rubber Tyred Gantries            10 box/gang hour           12.5 box/gang hour
1989 Q1                   1992
C.  EQUIPMENT AVAILABILITY             ACTUAL                   TARGET
__________________________
1.  Forklifts                              59?                  70Z
2.  Ship-to-Shore Gantries                 75Z                  80Z
3.  Rubber Tyred Gantries                  80Z                  701
4.  Rail Mounted Gantry                   100Z                  70?
5.  Tractors                               612                  70Z
6.  Trailers                               94Z                  70Z
D.  DWELL TIME                           1989              1991              1993
---------------                        TARGET              TARGET          TARGET
1. Containers
(a)  Imports                         31.0              22.0              18.0
(b)  Exports                          4.0               4.0               4.0
(c) Empties                          27.0              21.0              15.0
(d)  Average Loaded                  19.4              14.3              12.0
2.  Stripped Cargo (Ubungo)              30.0               7.0               7.0
1/ 3 gangs/shift. 3 shifts/day
2/ mid-ternm review report
(Sources Mid/term review report and THA)



Annex 2-6
Page 10 of 21
VI. Justification of Cargo Handling Equipment for Container Termlnal
Two SSG have been installed in the container terminal. In view
of the abrupt increase of container traffic, it has become a major issue
when the third SSG will be required. This is because an insufficient
handling capacity will eventually choke container flow. On the other hand,
the total investment for equipment will become substantial since, in
addition to cost of SSG, an auxilliary equipment such as Rubber Tyre Gantry
cranes (RTG) and terminal tractor/trailers needs to be purchased at the
same time. The procurement timing is discussed according to the following
steps: First, the annual throughput for two SSG is estimated brqed on
present work conditions. Secondly, the range of annual throughput
fluctuation due to possible changes of work conditions is estimated.
Thirdly, the number of container handled by SSG is estimated for
alternative scenario, in which a degree of ships'crane usage and percentage
of gearless container vessels to visit this port are chosen as parameters.
6.1. Loading and discharging capacity for ship to shore gantry cranes
(SSG).
The following assumptions have been adopted:
1) SSG is to operate 3 shifts every working day, Saturday 1,5
and Sunday 2 shifts. Total 920 shifts per year.
2)    The effective working time of a shift is less thran the
nomina hours, due to work environment, or for a purpose of
synchronizing the entire container operation system. An
effective working time has been estimated at 67Z on average
throughout the shifts.
3)    the availability of the equipment has been estimated at 701
on average due to:
- breakdown
- accidental damage
- planned maintenance
- waiting for service and/or spare parts
4)  101 of the boxes (movements) are 40 foot containers
5) Design rate for the SSG's is equal to 20 boxes per hour
6) Berth occupancy at 2 berths is 401
Based on the above assumptions the average handling rate per year
for 2 SSG is:
2 s 920 x 8 z 0,67 x 0,7 s 1,1 x 20 x 0,4 - 60.750 TEUIs



Annex 2-6
Page ll of 21
With different working intensity (effective working time) and
technical availability of the equipment, the handling rates will vary as
follows 5
Table 11% SSG Capacity Change (1)
(UnitI TEWIYear)
Technical availability
602          70Z       801
ffective working time 80Z         62.180       72.540    82.900
67S        52.070       60.750    69.430
50X        38.860       45.340    51.810
With different design rate for the SSG and berth occupancy, the
handling rate will vary as follows (effective working time 672, equipmnt
availability 802 in TEU's):
Table 12: SSG Canacity Change (2)
(Units TEU/year)
Berth occupancy (2 berths)
402         50         602
Design rate  30 box/hour       104,100     130,200      156,200
25 box/hour       86,800     108,500      130,200
20 box/hour       69,430       86,800     104,145
Effective working times 672. equipment availabilitys 802
The opinion is that the most likely capacity of the 2 SSG is
approximately 61.000 TEU per year for the rest of 1989 and the capacity
might gradually increase to between 90,000 - 104,L45 TEU's by 1991-1992.
In table 13, number of container to be handled by 88 is estimated
assuming 20 percent of loading and discharging is done by ships' gear sd
also assuming various percentage of gearless container vessels visiting
this container terminal. The alternative 1 represents a case where all
ships visiting are gearless vessels while the alternative S represents a
case where all ship visiting are equipped with cranes.



Annex 2-6
Page 12 of 21
Table 13: Number of Containers Handled by SSG
(20? of loading/discharging is made by
vessel's own sear)
I TRAPC FORCA&Y I eth 1-8 1  ALT1  I  ALT 2  1  ALT    I  ALT 4  1  ALT 
eonv.ship *  grlslea             gerless   g grl        rli.u
RO__o   I                                    -6eX  t  I    -x
198 16,65 TE           a    ,652     62,798     60,168    47,518     44,676     42,2a8
1989    68,380 1E          4,884    556,996     6,046     58,036  1 0,146       47,196
1990 7 Ta,030 TEU4,9    |6,0894  | 64,661      61,26                 67,8654    844,461
100i    65,220 TEU         6,7n6     79,425     76,58     71,6058   !  ,6,    I  83,54w
1992|  100,41" TELU    |     ,868   94,e02  |89,300       6 4, I0    79,#"   75,200
199      M ,5fi@10 TE      9,21111  113327     17!lsm    irl'so      9o!    so20, 
The change of the container requirement is calculated in case that
the handling speed by ship gear increases to 10 TEUs per hour.
Table 14A Number of Containers Handled by SSG
(33? of loading/discharging is made by
vessel's own gear)
1 TRAFFIC FORCAST   Berth 1-6    ALT 1  I  ALT 2  1  ALT 8     ALT 4  1  ALT 6
I               I coov.ship    g 1 re le   I se    glels   Tial 9  gOon...le   T 9ele..
=         !   fW~~~R/RO   i Of        76%       MB         25X        OX0
1988      56,60 TEU   1    a,652     52,80W     48,4W0    44,106     89,7w0    856,3a
A989 X  63,800 TEU   T     4,I6    69,0W        64,100    49,26 j0  44,4W0    89,60
1990 In  73,899 TEU        4,986     66M8,0    62,400  1  56,806  T  51,280    45,680
1991     65,220 TEU   I    5,7965      79,400 1  72,980 I  66,880 T  69,700 |  68,200
1m   T  10,68  TEU  I    6,658       64,000 T  66,200     66,38      5P,70W  j  5k,280
1993    121,610 TEU  I    6,268    113,380    168,086  I  94,650     865,200 I  7S,680
Based on alternative 3 (50? of all vessels with own ship gear) a
3rd ship to shore crane will be needed when traffic reaches 94,000-101,900
TEU i.e. in 1993. Due to the delivery time (18-24 months), this order
should be placed not later than 1991.



Annex 2-6
Page 13 of 21
6.2.     Loading and discharging capacity for rubber tired gantry (RTG)
cranes.
The following traffic is projected to go through RTG stack:
- all loaded import container but approximately 52 which are
unsuitable for RTG handling.
- about 202 of export boxes
This represents approximately 62Z of the total container traffic.
The handling capacity of the RTG has been calculated based on the
following work condition:
1) design rate of a RTG is between 10-15 moves per hour, in
average 12.5
2) 1OZ of boxes are 40 foot container
3) each box is moved in average 3.5 times in the stacking yard
4) 80X of container yard stacking work is carried out within 1.5
shifts which are 502 of a whole work hours per day, i.e. a
peak ration is 1.6
5) technical availability is 70Z
6) effective working time is 67? for whole work hour
7) terminal is operated three shifts every working day, 1.5
shifts per Saturday, 2 shifts per Sunday, total 920 shifts per
year.
The average handling ratio per shift for one RTG is:
0.7 x 0.67 x 12,5 x 8 - 46.9 moves per shift
The following table shows number of movements within the stacking
yards for various traffic level and a required number of RTG.
Table 15: RTG reauirements
TRAFFIC        TOTAL        MOVEMENT     RTG
FORECAST       MOVEMENT     PER SHIFT    REQUIREMENT
(TEU)          (BOX)        (BOX)         (NOS)
1988       56,650       111,800        121.4         4
1989       63,300       124,900       135.8          5
1990       73,030       144,100       156.7          5
1991       85,220       168,100       182.3          6
1992      100,860       199,000       216.3          7
1993      121,510       239,700       260.5          9



Annex 2-6
Page 14 of 21
6.3.     Terminal Tractors and Trailers
In calculatitg a required number of terminal tractors and
tralers. tha following several assumptions are mades
1) one terminal tractor will be able to carry out between 2-3
moves per hour in average 2.5 and carries two TEU per move.
2) 75 percent of all transfer vithin the terminal will be carried
out during 1.5 shifts, meaning a peak ratio of 1.5
3) one TEU requires in average 2 horizontal transfers inside the
port area. 95 percent of all containers within the port are
to be carried by traile.e and tractors.
4) technical availability is 702
5) effective working time is 672
Th. capacLty of one terminal tractor during a shift is:
2.5 x 2 x 8 x 0.70 x 0.67 - 18.76 (ThU movements)
Table 16t Terminal tractor and Trailer reauirementa
TRA PIC           TOTAL        NOS OF HOVE-   TERMINAL
FORECAST          MOVEMENT     MENTS PER      TRACTOR
(TEU)             (TEU)        PEAK PERIOD    REQUIRED
1989      63,300         120,270       196            11
1990      73,030         138,757       226            12
1991      85,220         161,918       264            14
1992     100,860         191,634       312            17
1993     121.510         230,869       376            20



Annex 2-6
Page 15 of 21
However, as an alternative approach to determine a number of
tractor and trailer, their movements for various cargo activities are
assumed based on past experience and the equipment requirement is
calculated aggregating requirements for various activities for 1993. This
estimate is adopted as a final estimate.
1) operation of three SSGs; each crane needs 4 tractors and
trailers; 12 units
2) operation of three ships lifting gear; each gear needs 2
tractors and trailers; 6 units
3) transportation from a stacking area to a customer inspection
area; 502 of import containers are inspected during day time;
4 u-tits
4) operation of railway mounted gantry crane; 2 units
5) transportation between berths 1-8 and container terminal; 72
of containers are transported during day time and cycle time
is assumed to be 24 minutes; 4 units
6) 28 units in total



TANZANIA HARBOURS AUTHORITY
(4)SUMMARY OF EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS: CONTAINER TERMINAL A 1CD'S DAR ES SALAMi
(OPERATIONAL CAPACITY 122,000 TEU'S)
TABLE 17: COST TABLE OF CONTAINER   NLIG EQUIPMT
NUMBERS                  I          COSTING         EPROGRAMME
TYPE OF EQUIPMENT                 __ _-          --       -- _____I OF AVAIL-
TOTAL      EXISTING     FINANCING I DEFICIT       PRICE/        TOTAL      ABILITY
REqUIREMENT i SERVICEABLE I IDENTIFIE      I       UNIT US2    COST USS        (WEEKS)
1. PORT TERMINAL                I
1.1.Shlp to Shore Gantries                               2           0           1   7,-,00        7,000,000 68--96
1.2.Rral Trminal a ra ntrois               1             1           _           _   JI t                      I   5-S@
1.3.Rubber Tyrod Gantries                  9            1            I          18     -ie,                        Be 6-go
1.4.Terainal Tractors1                    28            is           O          is      so0,00     1,a00,000    1 1-30
1.6.Torminal Trailers                     28            15           0          13       26,000  1    25,000       16-30 
1.6.Hlghway Tractors                      12            12           O     9 I          1      99 I        0  1   16-30
1.7.1Hghway Trailors                      12            12           9           a       25,000            a       10-80
1.S.Empty Container Handier                B             1           0           2      160,0m 0     B0,000        18-20
1.9. 42 ton Container Handler              1             1          -           -            -1f                      -
2. UBUNGO 1CD
2.1. 42 ton Container HandIor              2             2           O           O      400,000            9       16-20
2.2.Empty Container Handlr                2             1           0           1      160,6        160,000    1 -20
2.8.Stufting FLTS                         20            16           4           a            _                        -
2.4.T.rainal Tractors                      6             C           O                  100,0m                     16-20
2.5.Terminal Trailers                      6             6                       a       25,060            O       16-20
2.6.RoIl Trt tlor                         17            17           -           _           _             _           _
8. KURASINI WAREHOUSE
8.1. 42 ton Container Handler              2             2           _           _           -             _           _
3.2.Empty Container Handler                2             2           _           _           _             _
8.S.Stuffing FLTS                         16            12           0           4      B0,000       120,006       12-16
3.4.MobIlo Crane (IOT)                     2 1                       2           O           __
SUBTOTAL
CONTINGENCY O
TOTAL                           _____



Annex 2-6
Page 17 of 21
VII. Justification of General Cargo Handling equipment
7.1.     Loading/Discharging operation
The following assumption has been mades
1) Cranes operate 3 shifts every working day, Saturday 1.5 and
Sunday 2 shifts, total 920 shifts per year.
2) The effective working time of a shift is estimated at 752.
3) The availability of cranes depends on
- breakdown
- accidental damage
- planned maintenance
- modification
- waiting for service and spare parts
The availability ratio is estimated at SSZ.
4) Berth occupancy ratio is estimated at 65Z
5) In average, vessels are discharged/loaded by four cranes,
three of which are quay cranes and one is a ship's own gear.
Four gangs are engaged per shift.
6) A crane operates at a pace of six minutes per cycles or ten
cycles per hour.
7) An average sling weight is 1.3 tons.
Based on the above assumptions, annual throughput for the general
cargo berths for No.1 to No.8 is roughly estimated as;
920 x 0.65 x 8 x 0.75 x 10 x 1.3 x 4 x 0.85 x 8 - 1,270,000 tons
The required quay cranes are 24 (3x8) in total.
7.2.     In order to calculate necessary equipment for cargo handling in a
berth apron, transit shed and open storage yard, the conceptual cargo flow
pattern is illustrated. The export flow is assumed to be identical to one
for import except a reciprocal flow direction. (Fig. 1)



Annex 2-6
Page 18 of 21
7.3.     Transfer operation
(a) Forklift
The assumption iss
1)      602 of the vessel sling load will be picked up and
loaded to trailer by fork lift trucks. The rest (40Z)
will be discharged directly to trailer.
2)      a  unit weight transferred by a forklift truck is 1.3
tons
3)      a cycle time of forklift truck is less than six
minutes.
To synchronize with a crane operation, number of forklifts
required is
4 x 10 x 0.6 x 1/10 - 2.4
These would be mainly of the 3-4 ton capacity. A
supplementary forklift of the 2-3 ton capacity would be
required to work in the vessel hatches. This number is
assumed to be 2.4
(b) Tractor/Trailer
It is assumed that the average transported tonnage per cycles
is 20 tons for a tractor/trailer, the cycle time is 24 minutes
for tractor and three trailers is allocated to a tractor for
maximum efficiency.
The required numbers of tractor and trailer per berth are:
1.3 x 10 x 4 x 1120 x 1/2.5 - 1-n4 (tractor)
1.04 x 3                     - 3.12  (trailer)
7.4.     Storage Operation
(a) Transit shed.  It is assumed that 40 percent of total tonnage
from a vessel is stored in a transit shed and the rast in an
open storage area. The required number of forklifts is 1.6
forklifts per berth.
(b) Open storage Yard. Out of 60Z of total tonnage from a vessel,
30Z is discharged from trailer by a crane and 30Z by a bigger
capacity forklift.
1)      a 10 ton capacity crane will operate a 6 minute cycle
carrying a 1.3 ton load in average. The required
number of forklift is:
0.3 x 1.3 z 10 x 4 x 1/1.3 x 1/10 - 1.2



Annex 2-6
Page 19 of 21
2)      the bigger capacity forklift with special attachment
will handle the rest of the cargo. The required,
number required is:
0.3 x 1.3 x 10 x 4 x 111.3 x 1/10 - 1.2
7.5.     Delivery Operation from transit shed and open storage yard.
(a) transit shed. 1.6 forklifts per berth is necessary for
delivery to a truck and railway wagon.
(b) open storage yards all delivery to a truck and a railway
wagon will be done by a bigger capacity forklift trucks
0.6 x 1.3 x 10 x 4 x 111.3 x 1110 - 2.4
7.6.     Bigger Capacity Forklift and other special equipment
(a) Biager Capacitv Forklift. From the experience at the Dar es
Salaasm port, the most suitable composition of bigger capacity
fork lifts mentioned in 7.4(b)2) and 7.5(b) is proposed as
follows:
Table 18 - biaaer Canacity Forklift
Calculated Nos.        Proposed Breakdown
Type of Equipment
Bigger capacity forklift       6 ton FLT                    6
10 ton FLT                    2
7.4 (b)2)         1.2       3 ton Bale Clamp FLT         8
7.5(b)            2.4       3 ton Paper Roll Clamp FLT  8
.___________-   10 tons Coil Handling FLT    2
Subtotals      3.6      42 tone Front Loader          3
tor 8 berths 29
29
(b) Other Special Equipment
Following equipment is necessary to handle 40 foot container
40 tonl40 foot tractor/trailer        5
40 ton mobil crane                    3



Annex 2-6
Pa-ge 20 of 21
7.7.     Summary
Table 19 - General Cargo Eandlina tnduament
Type of Equipment        Requirement   Allowance        Total
for Round       Requirement
-off error
1.  Standard 3-4 ton FLT           45              8           53
2.  Stevedoring  2.5 ton FL        20              8           28
3.  6 ton LT                        6              0            6
4.  10 ton FLT                      2              0            2
S.  10 ton coil handling FLT        2              0            2
6.  3 ton Bail cramp FLT            8              0            8
7.  3 ton Paper Roll Clamp          8              0            8
8.  Front Loader                    3              0            3
9.  Tractors   20 ton               9              8           17
40 ton               5             0             5
10. Trailer    20 ton              25              8           33
40 ton               5             0             5
11. 10 ton Mobile Crane            10              8           18
12. 40ton Mobile Crane              3              0            3
7.8      Cost Table.  The additional investment is tabulated based on the
requirement, the existing equipment and the commitment made by douors.
Table 20 - oGst Table for e-gral' Cargo -Egulugent
TYPE OF        TOTAL   EXISTING   FINANCING   DEFICIT  PRICEI    TOTAL   PROGRAMME
EQUIPMENT      REQUI-  SERVICE-  IDENTI-                 UNIT     COST    OF AVAILAB
REMENT ABLE        FIED                   USS       USS    ILITY(WEEK
DAR ES SALAAM
1. fork lift      107       44          39          24    35,000   840,000    36-40
trucks
2. tractors        22       19          26           0    85,000         0
3. trailers        38       39          54           0    22,000         0     36
4. mobile          18        5          13           0   240.000              30-40
cranes (lOt)
5.toplift           3        5           0           0   340,000         0      -
trucks
6. truck mobile     3        0           0           3   390,000 1,170,000    30-40
cranes
(30-40t)
7. spare part                                                    2,945,000
SUB TOTAL                                                        4,955,000
Contingency 02                                                           0
TOTAL                                                            4,955,000



Annex 2-6
Page 21 of 21
FIGURE 1
DAR ES SALAAM PORT
CARGO FLOW PATTERN AND HANDUNG EQUIPMENT
IST'EVEDORE FORK UFT (2.)
1 75%       ,    1 2S%
QUAY CRANE (3)     SHIP CRANE                    NOS/BERTH
QUAY CRANE     3
4 TON rLT      5.6
2 TON FLT (STEV.) 2.4
TRACTOR        1.0
FORKUFT (4)                     TRAILER        I3.1
IOTON CRANE    1.2
BIG CAPACITY FLT 3.6
| TRACTOR (1.0)/TRALER (3.1) 
40%                                60%
|FORK UFT (1.6)  |1 I IFORK UFT (1.2)         IO |1TON CRAE(12)|
|  FORK UFT (1.6)  1            |BIGFORK UFT (2.4)|
%: PERCENTAGE OF
CARGO FLOW
E: NOS. OF EQUIP-
MENT PER ACTIVIT



TANZANIA
POrT N RENZATI PROJKT It
8OML i OF TEWICAL M8ISTAM4 AN TRAIODa
Curr ntcomltmat.          Proposed AMdition                 TOTAL                      SPOT                       LT
_EPRUETS                       T.A.     Training          T.A.     TraininA          T.A.     Training         T.A.     Training          T.A.     Traniing
Bonids                         110?           2?          872            24         1479                        482           25          1827           28
PUROA           SUS RMJ           4            8            0                         64            6             0            0            84            6
IAPER                            46            0            0            12           48            12            0            0            48           12
OPATZB                          878           S0           tlS           2           484           52            94           is           870           24
PCI                             217            0           114                      8S1             0           1a2i           0           209            0
PLANNIIdO/P                      i8            0           88             4           64            4             0            0            84            4
FDW&II:                          as            0           48             0          181            0            60            0            n             0
WVZC OCL                        188            0           86             0          174            0             4            0           170            0
TOTAL               20?8           s           692           S5          2768          125          736            4          20              72
50EDE OP OF DOM4 WaERISjW TO T.A.
ODA          sm3        F1MA           WhNmA       HMAAN          C3M           M           NORAW        WICTAD        TOTAL
ONEPARTlIIS           CMUT  FPRIP COT         PROP COMUT     CONlaT  PROP MUT  MP COMMIT  PP uMi PRO CWIT                      P      T   PROP COT  PRIP
e_01318                   12    0       94   12      79 48        12   0       44   0        so     0    60812          9   0         0   0    1107   872
PUROCHSEnoSPU              a    0       0    0        540          0   0        0   0        so     0      0    0       0   0         0   0       64      0
iUNPSU                     0    0       48    0        0  0        0   0        0   0         0     0      0    0       0   0         0   0       46      0
OPRPATIS                  0    0      72    0       172 18        0   0       40   0         0     0    82   68       80   0        12   0       m8    Be
KCU                       so    0      89   81        3 46         0   0       8    0         0     0      0    0       0   0         0   0      217   114
PLAN    EDP                0    0       0    0         0  0        0   0        012           0     0      0   24       0   0        Is   0       18    S6
iDlAC2                     0    0       0    0         00         0   0        0   0         0     0    18   46        0   0        65   0       68    48
WagARS COU.E               0    0        0    0        0 0         0   0        0   0         0     0      0    0    1N8so            0   0      188    86
TOTAL          70    0  a08   68    106 126            12   0      120 12        110     0   180  462    17786            98   0    2078   69
CMN o CfNKlAtT
PRP a MY PROOSAL
iD



ANNEX 8-13
TANZANIA
PORT MiDERNIZATION PROJECT II       PagO  1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
(sn_-month.)
IDA     SIDA  HULLAND    NORAD  FINNIDA    TOTAL
1. ENGINEERING
100 Clvil Engineering Expert              $3                                            U
101 Equipment Expert                      24                                            24
102 Computer Expert (Equip. Maint.)       24                                            24
103 Contra l Workshop Managor                                                  48       48
104 Base Workshop Manager                 s                                             so
107 Superintendent Eletrical              as                                            3e
108 Superintendent Light Vehicle          24                                            24
110 Superintendent Tractors                        12                                   12
111 Technicion Electrical                 24                                            24
112 Technician Top Forklift               24                                            24
118 Technictan Machine Shop               24                                            24
114 Technician Light Vehicles             24                                            24
115 Equipment Trainer                     12                                            12
116 Spare Parts Cxpert                    24                                            24
117 Instructors *                         12                                            12
120 Enginoering Manager (Containor)                                            48       48
121 Electrical Engineer                                                        48       48
122 Mechanical Engin-er                                                        48       48
128 Mechnieel Engineer                                                         48       48
126 Training Electrical Maintennce                                             42       42
126 Training Mechanical Maintenance                                            42       42
127 Other Trainers (Containor)                                                 82       82
129 Civil Engineering Maintenne                    86                                   Us
Civil Engineering Maintenance                  12                                   12
130 Engineer (Grain Terminal)                               a8                          Sf
186 Technician Satellitt Workshop                  12                                   12
SUB-TOTAL              824       7Z       U         0      856       788
2. PURCHASE AND SUPPLIES
201 Storos/Supply Specialist                                                   U8       UB
Storts/Supply Training .                                                    8        a
202 Stores Expert                                                              18       16
SUB-TOTAL                O        0        0        0       S7        57
8. Manpower
800 Manpower Planning                              24                                   24
Manpower Planning                              12                                   12
801 Incentive Schem Specialist                     24                                   24
SUB-TOTAL                a       C0        0        0        0        sO
4. OPERATIONS
400 Operations Expert                     Uo                                            se
401 Computer Expert                       12                                            12
402 Short Term Conaultancy                20                                            20
408 Manager (Container Terminal)                                               48       46
404 Operations Advisor *                   6                                             a
405 Principal Operations Officer                                               86       as
410 General Cargo Manager                          Ue                                   UC
General Cargo Manager                           4                                    4
411 Planning/Performnce Specialist                 86                                   a
412 Grain Terminal Manager                                  se                          se
Grain Terminal Monager a                                 2                           2
418 Operations Expert (Grain Terminal)                       4                           4
418 Unallocated Operations T.A.                                                1        18
SUB-TOTAL               74       76       42        0      102       294



EX  -18
Page 2 of 2
IDA    SIDA  IMOLLAIC   NORAD  fINNIDA   TOTAL
5. Projoct Coordlntieon Unit
Ml Sr. Civil Engln...                              48                                  48
562 TA & T Coordinator                                                        48       48
608 Senior Civil Engineer                                   12                         12
694 Asociate Civil Engineer                        12                                  12
606 Short Term Coeiuttinoy                         16                                  15
606 Short Term Coneultancy                                                    15       15
SUB-TOTAL                O       75       12        0       68     1a
6. PLAUION/EDP
GM9 Planning/MIS Specialist               24                                           24
061 Transport Economist                                     24                         24
6e2 EDP System An ly t                                      18                         16
EDP Training                           4                                            4
SUB-TOTAL               21        0       42        0        0       70
7. FINACE
700 Accounting Expert                     24                                           24
7M1 Computer Expert                       24                                           24
Uanoagmt Training                     12                                           12
SUB-TOTAL               06        0        0        0        0       s6
8. ANDARI COLLEGE
U8S Training  ethode ExperO                                          U                 86
SUB-TOTAL                         a        0       a8        0       u8
GRAND TOTAL            486      28B      182       86      578    1515
of which Tralning      84       28        2        0        3       87



Annex 3-2
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
IDA FUNDED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical Assistance                      Department               Man-months
Operations Management Expert               Operations                36 mm
Computer Expert                                                      12 mm
Short Term Consultants                         -                     20 mm
Operations Advisor (training)                                         6 mm
Civil Engineering Expert                  Engineering                36 mm
Equipment Expert                               -                     24 mm
Computer Expert/Equip. Maint.                  -                     24 mm
Base Workshop Manager                          -                     36 m
Superintendent - Electrical                    8                     36 mm
Superintendent - Light Vehicle                 -                     24 mm
Technician - Electrical                        .                     24 mm
Technician - Top Lift FLT                      8                     24 mm
Technician - Machine Shop                      8                     24 mm
Technician - Light Vehicle                     8                     24 mm
Equipment Trainer                              8                     12 mm
Spare Parts Expert                             -                     24 mm
Instructor (training)                                                12 mm
Planning and MIS Expert                    Planning/EDP              24 mm
EDP System (training)                          8                      4 mm
Accounting Expert                          Finance                   24 mm
Computer Expert                                -                     24 mm
Management Training                            8                     12 mm
TOTAL                                       486 mm
Training: US$600,000 for short term courses and visit to other ports.



Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 8
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
DAR ES SALAAM PORT DEVELOPMENT STUDY: 1994 - 2004
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01        The Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA) was incorporated in 1977 after
the demise of the former East Africa Harbours Corporation.  The Authority is
charged with the responsibility of developing, managing and operating Tanzanla
coastal ports on a commercial basis.  Major port operated by the Authority
includes Dar es Salaam, Tanga and Htwara. With a throughput of 2.1 million tons
of dry cargo (including 674,000 tons of containerized cargo) and 1.8 million tons
of petroleum products, the port of Dar es Salaam is one of the largest ports on
the eastern coast of Africa.   Neighboring landlocked countries of Zambia,
Burundi, Rwanda, Uganda, Malawi and Zaire also make extensive use of the port
of Dar es Salaam, with foreign traffic composing nearly 60Z of the total traffic.
1.02        The overriding goals and objective of the Authority are to optimize
the use of existing facilities and to develop the port infrastructure and
acquisition of equipment to cater to existing traffic as well as anticipated
growth. The strategy envisaged to attain these goals are based on retaining and
attracting more traffic, increased productivity and generating sufficient
revenues to achieve an acceptable economic and financial returns on the
investments. Cost control also is a major input in evolving a competitive tariff
to maintain the market share and hence better earnings.
1.03        Since its inception, THA has made great strides in adopting its
operations and management to cater to the changing international environment.
These include, development of container termin-l and associated Inland Container
Depots (ICD) to service containerized traffic which is growing at a rapid rate,
acquisition of modern cargo handling equipment and bulk handling facilities to
expand and expedite cargo handling, and structural adjustment to the Oil berthing
jetty to take larger and more modern petroleum tankers. Because of the fast
changing international shipping technclogy and pattern of business, the port of
Dar es Salaam has been under construction for over five years, and is expected
to continue for at least another five years.   It is the intention of the
Authority to reexamine the current situation both in terms of infrastructural
and equipment requirements and the expected increase in demand for port services
to determine a longer term strategy for comprehensive development of the port
of Dar es Salaam.



2
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 8
II. OBJECTIVE OF TME STUDY
2.01        The purpose of the proposed study is tot
(a)   prepare an overall port development program for years 1994 to
2004;
(b)   prepare a program for improvement in operations; and
(c)   recommend an appropriate financial strategy to expand its
profitability.
In this regard, the study will undertake detailed traffic forecast, operational
analysis, preliminary engineering and hydrological investigation, financial
impact study, and an economic assessment of various development options available
to THA, in order to determine the necessary improvements and expansion required
in the port of Dar es Salaam to enable it to handle the anticipate traffic to
year 2004. The study will also examine the need for diversification with the
view to generating greater revenues.
III. SCOPE OP CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
3.01        The consultant shall conduct all engineering work, physical surveys,
the collection and analysis of operational, economic and financial data and other
work herein described, as required to attain the objectives stated above. In
the conduct of their work, the consultants shall collaborate closely with the
Planning Departments of THA and the Ministry of Communications and Works, which
has agreed to assign counterpart staff to work with the consultants and provide
the data, services and facilities outline in Part IV herein. The consultants
shall be solely responsible, however, for the interpretation of all data and
services received and for the findings and recommendations contained in their
reports.
3.02        The geographic scope of this study for traffic forecasts shall
include Tanzania, as well as, all of the countries which currently use the port
of Dar es Salaam as a transit port (these include Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda,
Uganda, Malawi and Zaire) and the shipping routes serving Dar es Salaam in
maritime foreign trade.   The geographic scope of this study for operation
analysis and advisory services shall cover the terminal under the port of Dar
es Salaam.



3
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 8
D.    Traffic Forecasts and Cost Analysis
Commodity Flow Forecasts
3.03        The consultants shall produce a detailed traffic flow projections
for Tanzania, as well as the neighboring countries which currently use the port
of Dar es Salaam, based on the current and expected macroeconomic environment
of each country and the expected routing of respective country' import/export
traffic. The consultants wili also take into consideration the behavior of the
major shipping lines and their plans for the part of Dar es Salaam into
estimating the competitive position of the port.  Based on this review, the
consultants shall prepare forecasts of Dar es Salaam's traffic for the years
between 1994 and year 2004. The forecasts shall indicate the countries of origin
and destination by major commodity groups.
Estimates of Containerized Carso
3.04        Using the above forecasts of commodity flows, the consultants shall
estimate the amounts of traffic that could be containerized. For this purpose,
two estimates shall be prepareds (i) a low estimate, based on assumptions that
port terminal would be improved for container transfer but that inland movement
of containers would be difficult due to lack of inland facilities to expedite
container movements; and (ii) a high estimate, based on a3sumption that both
ports and inland transport modes would provide efficient services for cargo
movement In containers.
3.05        Three areas require particular attention in the preparation of
estimates of container traffic: (i) containerization of coffee exports; (ii)
containerization of copper exports; and (iii) containerization of miscellaneous
general cargo imports and exports.   Regarding categories (i) and (ii), the
consultants shall make inquiries with principal producers, shippers and ocean
carriers, to determine current shipping trends in these trades and the services
likely to be offered to exporters.
3.06        Estimates of containerizable cargo shall be expressed in tonnes of
export and imports, and in number of outbound and inbound container units (TEUs),
including movements of empty containers).
Inland Traffic Flow Analysis
3.07        The analysis of inland traffic flows under this study shall be
limited to review of work done by others and a general assessment of the impact
of prospective developments in Tanzania's transport modes. It is not expected
that a mathematical model for simulation of inland traffic flows will be
available to the consultants for purposes of this analysis.  To the extent
necessary for forecasting movements of containers under alternative systems, the
consultants shall make assumptions on the future characteristics and costs of
inland transport modes, based on their own assessment of material to be made



4
Annex 3-3
Page 4 of 8
available by *thers: the main assumptions, however, shall be discussed and agreed
with the Plaaning Office prior to their inc-orporation in the analysis.
C.    Analysis of Present Port Operations
Peview of Current Practices
4.01        For the analysis of present operations at Dar es Salaam, the
consultants shall review all available data on terminal activities at the porzs,
observe and analyze current operating procedures and practices, and discuss
present and prospective operational problems with personnel responsible for
terminal management and with port users.  The consultants shall also review
inventories and existing port facii.lles and equipment and assess the present
conditions and future utility of major components.
4.02        The consultants shall study the movement of cargo and of bulk grain
handled at the Dar es Salaam terminal facilities. This shall include an analysis
of the facilities, equipment and procedures used in receiving transit storage,
long-term storage and loading of cargo. Particular consideration shall be given
tos
(i)   the present and prospective use of containers in international
trade and their implications for customs and port services;
(ii)  the interaction of inland transport modes with shipside and
transit operations;
Study of Alternatives for Imerovement
4.03        Based on the foregoing, the consultants shall study and discuss with
THA and other agencies concerned the alternatives for improvement that could be
introduced at the existing terminal facilities. This shall result in preparation
of a detailed program of recommended actions designed to increase port efficiency
and throughput capacity. The program shall comprise (but not necessarily be
limited to) the followings
(i)   operational improvements that could be introduced without
alterations to exiting facilities and equipment;
(ii)  operational improvements requiring minor alterations and/or
the acquisition of new equipment that could be introduced with
in one year;
(iii) change in THA's administration and management systems that
should be implemented without delay;
(iv)  changes in THA's administration and management system that
should be tested in small scale (pilot) operation prior to
general adoption; and



5
Annex 3-3
Page 5 of 8
(v) desirability of introducing private sector involvement in port
operation (e.g. privatization of stevedoring, privatization
of warehousing).
4.04        The above program shall be presented in preliminary form in the
Interim Report of this study and in final form at the final report stage. The
program shall comprise a proposed time schedule of the steps necessary for
effective  implementation.    For  all  facility  alterations  and  equipment
acquisitions that are recommended, the program shall include schematic plans and
layouts, performance specification and cost estimates.   For organizational
changes recommended in the program, the consultants shall assess the operational
impact to be achieved, define the roles of the affected institutions, identify
staff training and recruitment needs, and estimate the initial and recurrent
costs.
Review of Financial Aspects
4.05        The consultants shall review the financial reports of THA for 1980
through 1990 and discuas with the management and staff of THA the principles and
procedures used In the financial administration of individual ports and of the
port system as a whole (including such topics as management reporting and
control, auditing, revision of port tariff structure, and forecast of port
revenues and costs). Based on the foregoing, the consultants shall analyze the
financial implications of the program of actions recommended in this section.
D.   Port linansion Study
5.01        Based on the traffic and operational analysis carried out in the
foregoing, the consultants shall investigate the need to expand the port
facilities at Dar es Salaam. The investigation will cover the possible need for:
(i) berth expansion; (ii) container terminal expansion; (iii) break bulk storage
facility expansion; and (iv) widening of the entrance channel.
Physical Survey
5.02        The consultants shall reviews all available data on topographic,
hydrographic, weather, drainage and subsurface conditions in the port area of
Dar es Salaam, plans of existing facilities; records of dredging operations; and
construction records of pile-supported structures. Based on this review, the
consultants shall define the scope of additional field surveys (including
subsurface ;Investigations and laboratory soil tests) required for the study of
alternatives, and the preparation of development plans, and preliminary
engineering designs for the required expansion of the port capacity. The survey
is carried out for the purposes of estimating the costs of various options for
capacity expansion and the economic and -inancial returns of the respective
options.



6
Annex 3-3
Page 6 of 8
Preliminary Engineerina and Economic Analysis
5.03        Preliminary engineering designs shall be based on an analysis of
alternative construction methods, taking into account the specific site
conditions. Preliminary designs for the recommended expansion shall be carried
out to the degree of detailed required tos (1) estimate principle quantities of
construction materials with an accuracy of + 15Z; and (i) provide a sound basis
ior proceedinS with detailed engineering and preparation of contract documents
for construction.
5.04        The preliminary analysis of economic benefits and costs for the
proposed port development shall be based on the forecast projection of traffic,
with and without the capacity expansion. Benefits to be coui idered shall include
the increase in the port's capacity to handle larger trafkic volume, reduction
in  the  ships' turnaround time, and acceptance  of larger ships.   Other
quantifiable benefits from increased economic activities attributable to the
project may  also  be  included.   Costs  shall include  final engineering,
construction, equipment acquisition, physical contingencies and administration.
E.    Environmental Impact issessment
6.01        The consultant shall carry out a comprehensive environmental impact
assessment of the proposed alteration and expansion of the existing facilities.
The three areas of concern are the impact on the en-ironment of; (M) new berth
construction; (ii) widening of the channel; and (iii) disposal of dredged
materials. In addition, the consultants shall investigate the current practices
of TRA in regard to treatment of hazardous materials and cargo (including gases,
liquids and solids); treatment of ships' discharge; and treatment of petroleum
products. The consultants shall be guided by a Technical Paper prodieed by the
World Bank entitled gEnvironmental Considerations for Port and Harbor
Developments' Report INU5 January 1989 which will be made available by THA to
the consultants.
6.02        In carrying out the assessment, the consultants shall outline the
potential impact of varioue recommended physical works to be undertaken, the
alternatives available to mitigate, if not eliminate, any harmful impact or
alteration to the environment. The consultants will also recommend facilities
improvements and operational changes to improve THA's handling of hazardous
materials and ships' waste (discharge).
6.03        In addition to the above, consultants shall review THA's operating
practices regarding control of discharge of pollutants in the port (including
oily ballast, bilge water and sewage, as well as its contingency plans in case
of oil spillage and fire. The consultants shall review TBA's facilities and
operating practcices in light of the regulations stipulated under the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (1973, as
modified by the Protocol of 1978 - MARPOL 73178). The consultants shall assess
the facilities and operating adjustment required for TEA to join MARPOL, and the
costs related to any investments required.



7
Annex 3-3
Page 7 of 8
F.    Time Schedule wnd Reporting Reauirements
7.01        The consultants shall mobilize their team in Dar es Salaam within
one month of the starting date.
7.02        The consultants shall prepare and submit the following report to TEA,
the Government and the Bank within the time periods and in quantities indicated
(all reports shall be in English):
Iumber of Copies to         Time (in months
Covernment   THA  Bank         from starting date)
Inception Report             5        10     3                1-1/2
Progress Report              5        10     3            every two months
Interim Report              5         10     3                  6
Draft Final Report          20        30     5                  9
Final Report               50        100     5                  *
(M)   Within thirty calendar days of receipt of comments on the Draft Final
Report from the C-overnment, THA and the Bank.
7.03        The Inception Report shall summarize the consultant's  initial
findings: reflect a first assessment of available data and of site conditions
at the port; in addition, it shall contain:
(i)   an outline of the methodology the consultants propose to use
in traffic forecasting and economic analysis:
(ii)  the proposed program and budget for physical data collection
and field surveys;
(iii) an outline of work expected to be completed up to presentation
of the first Progress Report.
7.04        The Progress Report shall contain a brief summary of the work
accomplished in the preceding two months, an outline of work expected to be
completed during the next progress reporting period, and the consultant's
comments or recommendations on any unforseen conditions that may affect the
progress or quality of their work.
7.05        The Interim Report shall contain a summary of the findings and
recommendations of the consultants on operational studies in the ports, options
on facility expansion and traffic forecasts.
7.06        The Final Report shall reflect all revisions the consultants deem
appropriate after receipt of comments from the Government and the Bank of the
Draft Firal Report.



8
Annex 3_3
Page 8 of a
6.    Training
8.01        The consultants will be expected to make every effort to transfer
their skills to the local personnel with whom they are working. In particular,
the consultants undertake the following training activity. Once a month, the
consultant will give a one-day seminar for TEA staff covering the results of work
undertaken in the previous month; the design of work plan for the coming month:
and the relationship between cost, progress and total work remaining.   The
seminar will also cover the methodology, and in the feasibility studies, relevant
techniques. Whenever possible, the conaultants will arrange for at least one
topic to be introduced by a member of the counterpart team.
H.    Data, Services and Facilities to be Provided by TEA
Data
9.01        TEA has agreed to provide the consultants with access to all
available data relevant to the services and provide an inventory of such data.
The data shall include (but not be limited to) the followings
(i)   past reports prepared by or for THA on development of Dar es
Salaam port, waterborne transport, railways, roads, port
operations and related supporting data;
(ii)  detailed information on the operations, data inputs and results
of past and current traffic analysis;
(iii) operating maintenance and traffic data and operating accounts
of TEA;
(iv)  general plans of all port facilities to be studies;
(v)   an inventory of all existing shore facilities and equipment
in the port of Dar es Salaam;
(vi)  all engineering data available on shore facilities, channel,
including construction plans and records, equipment, surveys.
test boring logs and soil laboratory test; and
(vii) results of recent condition surveys and proposed repair work
on existing facilities.
9.02        In addition, TEA will make arrangements for access by the consultants
to all port facilities to be studies and to key officials in public and private
agencies concerned with sector or regional planning, inland transport, shipping,
ports and operations and services related to ports.



AEX 8-4
FXIANChNO PLAN
(US$ eillIon)
Ttatl
COW CNETf                  Cost     IDA    FINN1DA  OANIDA   NOWAD  HIOLLAUND   51A        THA
A.  Civil Works
A.1 Port Contalner Terminal             12,691.o  9,271.1                                                8,409.9
Kuroasini Depot                     7,1U8.6  5,528.6                                                 1,610.6
Ubungo Depot Paving                 2,178.4  1,68.1                                                   548.4
Sub-Total A.1              21,963.1  10,424.2                                               6.668.9
A.2 Copper Road                          1,664.7  1,121.7                                                  768.0
A.8 Berth 9, 10, and 11                  5,418.6                     4,659.6                             1,858.8
A.4 Lighterage Wharf Paving A Utilitles  4,2t.S                                       8,210.4            1,070.1
A.6 BeIgian Wharf Rehabilitation         1,971.$                                                         1,971.8
A.6 Port Central Workshop                 M9.2                                                    696.8    896.9
A.? Kuraaini Oil Jetty Strengthening    11,664.9                            16,62s.0                     1,889.9
A.$ Berth 1-8 Rehabilitation            17,684.7                                               12,471.8  4,612.9
Subtotal Part A Total Cost        65,499.4 17,545.9       0.6  4,659.8 16,025.6  8,216.4 18,667.1 17,591.2
B.   Equipmnt
B.1  Ceneral Cargo Equipm  t             4,988.1  4,968.1
8.2  Contalner Terminal Equipment       10,176.8           19,178.8
8.8  Ship-to-Shore Gantry                8,692.1                                                         8,692.1
B.4  Office Equipment                    1,241.7  1,241.7
B.5  Central Workshop Equipment          2,421.4  2,421.4
Subtotal Part B Total Coat        27,561.6  6,081.2 I9,176.8       6.0     9.0      0.0       0.0  8,692.1
C.   Dosign/Supervieion
C.1  Design for A1,A2                      4J4.6              484.6                                          0.0
C.2  Suporv.eion for A1,A2               1,6609.4  1,835.5                                                 383.9
C.a  De  ogn/Supervion for AS              287.5                      196.0                                 47.5
C.4  DOeign/Sup rvilIon for M4             882.5                                        266.0               66.5
C.5  D aIgn/Supervilon for AS              149.5                               119.6                        29.9
C.6  Design/Supervlslon for AS             216.0                                                 174.4      48.8
C.7  Da ln/Supervision for A7              696.9                               717.5                       179.4
C.8  Port Developnent Study              1,212.7    976.2                                                  242.6
C.9  Workshop Study17.                                        217.8                                         6.6
Subtotal Part C Total Coet         5,66S.2  2,868.7    651.6   190.0   887.1   268.0    174.4    948.8
0.    Institutionel Development
D.1   Project Coordination Unit          2,062 6              768.2                     165.0  1,184.6       0.0
0.2   Management Technical aaslitance   19,47i.9  6,156.6  6,881.6            564.4 1,753.2  8,116.8  1,6U8.9
0.8   Technical Aseistonce To Customs    2,426.2  2,428.2                                                    0.0
Subtotal Part D Total Cost        28,976.9  6,568.9  7,094.2       0.6   564.4 1,918.2  4,251.8  1,588.9
TOTAL COST                             122,848e.1 87,0S6.7 17,924.8  4,249.8 11,446.5  5,834.6  17,492.6  28,765.1
26-Dec-89



Annex 3-5
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year                    Quarterly             Cumulative
and Quarter Ending                 Disbursement          Disbursement
FY1990-91
September 30, 1990                      0.18                 0.18
December 31, 1990                       0.18                 0.4
March 31, 1991                          0.4                  0.8
June 30, 1991                           0.4                  1.2
FY1991-92
September 30, 1991                      1.4                  2.6
December 31, 1991                       1.2                  3.8
March 31, 1992                          1.9                  5.7
June 30, 1992                           1.9                  7.6
FY1992-93
September 30, 1992                      2.6                 10.2
December 31, 1992                       2.6                 12.8
Harch 31, 1993                          2.8                 15.6
June 30, 1993                           2.7                 18.3
FY1993-94
September 30, 1993                      1.9                 20.2
December 31, 1993                       1.9                 22.1
March 31, 1994                          1.9                 24.0
June 30, 1994                           1.9                 25.9
FY1994-95
September 30, 1994                      1.4                 27.3
December 31, 1994                       1.2                 28.5
March 31, 1995                          1.4                 29.9
June 30, 1995                           1.2                 31.1.
FY1995-96
September 30, 1995                      1.4                 32.5
December 31, 1995                       1.2                 33.7
March 31, 1996                          1.05                34.7
June 30, 1996                           1.05                35.8
FY1996-97
September 30, 1996                      0.62                36.4
December 31, 1996                       0.62                37.0
Closing Dates June 30, 1997
Sources Standard Disbursement Profile, April 22, 1989



'rANz*ZA
PORT MEIZATION PROJECT I
0I#IL CARGO TRAFFIC F0RCAST (1961-199)
('000 Tom)
-                      ArUAL- -- - ------------           A.A..( CS)       -----        -    --   FORU       T---A.A.C.3 ()
X198     1984     1965    1986    1987    1968           (1963-l9ss)       1989     1990    l9        1992    1993      1944    199s           (108-1905)
TANZA                           109      159      148    16       274      200                1.21        305      340      376      416      449      485      521              1.40
TRU6IT - ZAMBIA                 40       459      418     890      47       3SS                0.99        404      420      436      454      472      491    s51                1.04
- NALDI                  4        Is      28       12       is       11                1.22         is       22       30       42       59       13       68              1.30
- ZAIRE                  57       6s       62      53       46       57                1.00         59       61       83       66       68       70       73              1.04
- SRUNDI                82       29       87       36       37       43                1.06         42       42       41       40       39       89       38              O."
-  O O O O               0        0        0        0        1        1                1.00          1        1        1        1        2        2        2              1.10
- UCADA                   0       13      1s       1s       48       37                1.30         4S       54        6       80       97      11i      143              1.21
TOTAL inUT                          606      740      711     670      688      S17                1.06        871      940    1.014    1.099    1,166    1,268    1,356              1.06
IS
TANWAIA                         S16      667      709    S1       724      670                1.02        579      591      60e      621      639      658      681              1.06
TRANSrr - ZAMBIA               263      292      257      351      304      439                1.11        325      341      358      376      395      415      438              1.00
- ALAWI                 26       13        19       4        9       30                1.05         36       43       82       62       75       so       65              1.18
- ZAIE                    4       8        11      16       14       83                1.S3         29       26       25       20       18       16       14              0.86
- ORII                  31       55       sr       09       78       77                1.20         84       92      loo      110      120      131      143              1.09
- RWANDA                  5        6      28       19       3s       69                1.69         72       74       77       so       83       67       90              1.04
- UGANDA                21       25        8        1       43       22                1.01         29       37       49       68       68      106      140              1.80
TOTAL 1W0615                       8P     1,06     1,061    1,061    1,M     1,240                1.07      1,154    t,205    1,266   1,384    1,418    1,498    1.,69               1.04
TOrAL DWt/5 WtT
TANZAEIA                        624      826     857      736      996      am0                1.06        884      932      982    1.087    1,068    1,142    1,208              1.05
TRANSfT - ZAMBIA               S66      751      675      749      T7l      827                1.04        729      761      795      830      887      906      94               1.02
- MALAWI                30       28       47       16       24       41                1.06         51       65       82      1os      134      143      1SS              1.21
-ZAIRE                  61       73       73       69       60       90                1.06         8S       87        6s      se       se       a6       87              1.00
- BR I                  63       84       94      125      110      120                1.14        126      133      141      ISO      159      170      131              1.06
-RWAtQ                   5        6       23       19       36       70                1.70         73       76       79       62       8s       se       92              1.04
-UGANA                  21       38       23       17       aS       59                1.23         74       92      11S      144      16O      226      203              1.25
aMw  TOTAL                        1,472    1,86    1M,792    1,781    2,065   2,057                1.07      2,025    2,145    2,280    2,433   2,599    2.761    2,94S               1.05
* Avene  iiiort traffic over the post four year two been u*d
to e*ti ,to the 1989 volum  end *llowed to iucree- at SJ Per a
CiE: FCS                                                                                                                                                                                           | 
PFAE: 1



NW I.584UATS6  UWJW5  IS
'.AATAD    O CAM AIl C    TI  (1968-1995)
~~~L---   AcA                             A.A.G M                                                                       A.A. CS)
iee     19is     1u    1i       1997    i       196  c1-1900)        1.      1990    1991    1992    199      1994    199          (1966-1995)
TM@MEI                     4,6    4,696   5,061   4,7M    6.251   9.291               1.15    10,54  1I*S,t  18.,86  1,0O9   17,C22  19,16   21,579               1.18
1RTr  - ZAL                  944   1,522   2,2"   8,201   8,096   4.666                18J      6,66     7.09    9,060  I1.6    14.0    16.060  17,406             1.21
- WAS1               gm    1,000    1.76      892      971    6on               1.17       671   1,246   1,766   2.6    5,62    .929   4,24                 1.81
- -                 1,818   2,647   2.577   2.087   1.64   2,77                 1.18     2,0     8,30   S6,6    4.0    5.064   6,89    5.465                1.10
- U26A                 0      6D      817     so2   1,8I6    1,670              1.68     2,167   2,675   3,602   4,076   5.01   6,445   0.2                 1.24
TOrAL soon                     7,864  10,465  12,419  11,20  18,742  19,212                1.21    21,968  26,181   1.861  87,7    45,68   80.956  57,0U4              1.17
TAMEIA                     5.784   7,424   9,609  12,199  15.574  15,019               1.21    29,274  28,661  24,68,    25,764  27,044  29,166  81,451            1.11
URIIST - ZMA               2,417   8,541   8,959   2,t1  S,        5.00S              1.15o    5,0    6,480   8.260  100,63   18,074  18.186  16,751              1.19
- 1VAA4              225      SD     710      90     an       a84              :.19       69      990   1,414   2,019   2,.S3  S,8J4   8.923               1.8
- a6                 918   1,206   1,489   1,12   2,296   8.180                 1.26     8,866   4,424   5,801   6,641   6.807    990   9s,80               1.17
-                     8WO  e4  21      49      61     265      198              1.29       6       69   1,18   2s,72    5,6       5,979    ,462             1.65
- PCRI TO Pr        2.67   3,e61   6,080    .0      4,7      4,92               1.12        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
TmAL SD6IS                    12.225  16,176  22,0F,2  22,886   2e.68   60.940             1.19   S8,865  S6.594  41,060  47,99   a7,648   ,62   66,07                 1.18
TOTAL W/wo                                                                      -
TMgA                      10,890  12U,1   14,640  15,27  21,126  24,810                1.19    52,796  3,249  87,926  40,a87  44.066  46,80  58.                   1.12
TRAN61 - ZWAA              5,361   4,665   6,U17   S,067   5,451   9,661               1.24    1o0.6   15.519  17,299  22,15  26,825  51,195  34.7                 1.20
- WALA*I             511   1,801   2,476      $a    1,809   1,16                1.15     1,564   2,2    8,202   4,5062   6,67   7.290    ,17               1.82
^ 2,U48    3,65   4,066   ,. 179   4,159   5,90                                 1.2D     6,662   7,724   9,867  11,846   5,7m   14,84   14,965              1.14
- 5068                84      621     am      6     1,1    2,068                2.07     2,496   5,544   4,685   6,612  10,864  12,2    U1,712              1.52
P.wTO P.r         2,57   8,6SS   6,086   6,046   4,79M   4,B2                 1.12                --      -        -       -       -       --
.94o TOTAL (L06   WADs) 19,609  26,641  84,471  68,596  40,89   48,12                     1.20    66,603  62,075  72,441  S5,73  1082,2 1.6580 12U,12                 1.15
TOTAL seWS                     6,607   5,799   6,241   0,797   6,111   6,54                1.06     9,496  10,964  12.764  15,129  15,226  2,045  29,091               1.15
WO TOTAL (CANTAII             26,416  82,440  40,712  40,898  44.701  56,696               1.17    60,104  75,029  65,224 100,02  121,80  185,684 147,M                1.18
PA2 2
N



Annex 4-3
I   .~      a               f a                -      
| i  | | | t e p  0 8 X ;re ;  | 3 ^ I
@    i!  Ra |t f31  3 !d ^g  3      8 1 e| e  -
g    ~   ~ ~*3 S n              s g     *t8 It  a 
.44.                                ......ae _ -;nevg  Xs  
_ 4-             ~    ~     Z    ~     ^^
.*~~~~~~~12 
|~~               a' 3 C                      a ;t ;8eX"t g|^8Sj
5  fSS 3ew                             38U 3gg     SIXe 
5  5l'3@             S.S             *, e-e_
.41                                                  1 



Annex 4-4
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF TRAFFIC PROJECTION
TANZANIA
1.          Exports. Although it is highly unlikely that Tanzanian exports will
continue to grow at the rate experienced over the past five years (21Z p.a.),
recent economic reforms under the Economic Recovery Program have generated
substantial economic response, particularly in the agricultural __ctor, and
strong export performance is likely to continue.  Also, during the forecast
period, Tanzania will embark on a massive rehabilitation of its road network
(proposed Integrated Roads Project - FY90) and continue the rehabilitation of
agricultural processing facilities. These arc the two major physical constraints
which had Impeded a stronger export response over the past three years. Overall,
Tanzanian export traffic is forecast to rise from 280,000 tonnes in 1988 to
449,000 tonnes in 1993 and 521,000 tonnes in 1995 (representing an average growth
of 9? p.a.). The overall growth rate of Tanzanian exports is consistent with
the projection made under the Tanzania Public Expenditure Review completed in
May 1989 (Report No. 7559-TA).1
2.          Imports.  After falling precipitously from a peak of about 900,000
tonnes in the mid-1970's to 516,000 tonnes in 1983, the past five years have
shown a slow recovery, fluctuating between 570,000 and 724,000 tonnes p.a.
Although there is considerable suppressed demand for imports, the actual volume
will continue to be restricted by the availability of foreign exchange. The
overall growth rate is projected at 32 p.a., leading to a recovery to about
681,000 tonnes per annum by 1995. The assumed growth rate is consistent with
the projection made under the Tanzania Public Expenditure Review.
ZAMIA
3.          Exports.  The main Zambian export is copper and both total exports
and the share of traffic transitting Dar es Salaam have declined sharply (over
402) from the levels of the mid-1970's. However, since 1983, a modest revival
has been experienced, with total exports increasing at about 22 p.a. Given the
recent increase in world copper prices, copper exports are forecast to recover
at a modest pace, with total exports regaining the 1980-81 level of 472,000
1  Projections     1989   1990   1991   1993   1995   1997
Exports   8.9Z  11.5?  10.5Z   8.0i   7.6Z   7.0?
Imports   1.6Z   2.1Z   2.5?   2.9?   3.6Z   4.0Z
Sources Tanzania Public Expenditure Review (7559-TA)



Annex 4-4
Page 2 of 5
tonnes in 1993 and rising to 511,000 tonnes in 1995 (overall growth of 4? p.a.).
This projection does not take into consideration any major changes to Zambia's
current macroeconomic policy. If a major currency devaluation occurs, along with
structural changes in the productive sectors, Zambian exports could conceivably
increase at a much faster pace than projected, as has been experienced in
Tanzania.
4.          Imports.  'r. a two critical factors determining the volume of Zambian
imports through Dar es Salaam are: (i) the total volume of imports (in turn
dependent upon Zambian economic conditions); and (ii) the ability of the Dar es
Salaam route to provide a service comparable to the southern routes (through
Mozambique or the Republic of South Africa (RSA)).  For the purposes of the
project, it has been assumed that no major change is made in the macroeconomic
management of Zambia and that the import volume through Dar es Salaam will
essentially stay at the current level of about 440,000 tonnes p.a. through to
1995. As for the Dar es Salaam route providing a competitive service vis a vis
the southern routes, port pricing at Dar es Salaam is about the same as it is
at the southern ports, while land transport costs for imports to Lusaka and the
eastern half of Zambia, are lower from Dar es Salaam than from the southern
routes. It is likely that Zambia will continue to use Dar es Salaam as its main
port. If Zambia embarks on a major economic reform program, and if substantial
donor funding can be secured to support the undertaking, then it is highly
possible that much more Zambian traffic would transit through Dar es Salaam.
Consequently, the forecast for Zambian traffic would be on the conservative side.
MALAWI
5.          The level of Malawi transit traffic is a function of: (i) completion
of the Malawi Cargo Centers (MCC) in Dar es Salaam and Mbeya (Northern Transport
Corridor (NTC) Project - Cr. 1879 - MAI); and (ii) the possible opening of
Halawi's traditional export routes through Mozambique (the Beira and Nacala
Corridors). Currently, due to closure of both the Nacala and Beira lines, the
majority of Malawi import/export traffic is routed to the South African route,
which is three to four times longer than the Mozambique routes and twice as long
as the Dar es Salaam route. Expanded use of the Dar es Salaam route is planned
to begin after the required transshipment depots and road link between Malawi
and Tanzania have been completed under the on-going Malawi NTC project. The MCCs
are inland container and general cargo depots dedicated to serving Malawi cargo
and are designed to expedite the flow of Malawian tr'ffic. The construction of
the MCCs has commenced and their opening is planned for 1990/1991. Regarding
the possibility of Malawi's traditional routes being reopened, there has been
some reduction in insurgency activities around the Nacala Corridor, and this may
provide an additional transit route for Malawi.
6.          Traffic projections for Malawi are based on the analysis carried out
in the NTC project.   Under the NTC rroject, the traffic forecast assumes
diversion of nearly 302 of total Malawian import/export traffic to the port of
Dar es Salaam, equivalent to 125,000 tonnes for exports and 121,000 tonnes for
non-fuel imports. The underlying assumption is that both the Beira and Nacala
Corridors would open partially in 1988 and by 1993 would accommodate traffic



Annex 4-4
Page 3 of 5
equal to half the potential capacity of those two routes (both routes combined
have sufficient capacity to serve the entire Malawian import/export traffic).
In mid-1989, however, neither of the Corridors had opened. Nevertheless, for
forecasting purposes, the Port Modernization II project has adopted the
assumption that only 65Z of the traffic projected to be diverted to the port of
Dar es Salaam under the Malawi NTC project will in fact be so: i.e. it is assumed
that the Mozambique routes will reopen fully in 1990 and remain open thereafter'
(an assumption which was used in the sensitivity analysis of the NTC project).
As a result, the Malawi traffic projected to transit Dar es Salaam port is
134,000 tonnes in 1993 and 153,000 tonnes in 1995 (up from 41,000 tonnes in
1988).
ZAIRE. BURNDI. RWANDA AND UGAND&
7.          The total transit traffic of these countries has increased from
150,000 tonnes in 1983 to 340,000 tonnes in 1988, and they now hold an 182 share
of the total dry cargo throughput of Dar es Salaam. In recent years, due to
efficiency improvements at the port of Dar es Salaam relative to Mombasa (their
alternative port), shippers have shown preference for using the former. The
major constraint, however, has been a lack of efficient inland transport
services: TRC and their lake transshipment points have experienced severe
problems in meeting the growing demand; the road network leading to Dar es Salaam
is in a dilapidated condition, often impassable during the rainy season; and a
lack of road/rail transhipment points in the north-western part of the country
has effectively precluded the use of rail even when service has been available.
The future Increase of transit traffic from these countries will depend therefore
ons (i) improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of inland transport;
and (ii) each country's decision on the use of Dar es Salaam or Mombasa as its
main route.
8.          Major improvements in inland transport are planned over the project
period. Under the proposed Integrated Roads Project (FY199#0), the main artery
from Dar es Salaam via Isaka to Mwanza, which is the main throughway for transit
traffic, will be rehabilitated to paved standard. Under the proposed Railways
Restructuring Project (FY1991), significant physical as well as management
improvements are planned to increase the capacity of TRC to meet its domestic,
as well as transit, traffic demand. Also, operational arrangements are being
made in TRC for transit traffic to be transported in unit trains, thus cutting
down on cost and reducing travel time.   Construction of Isaka road/rail
transshipment depot has begun with EEC financing and is expected to be in
operation in 1990. With these activities, Tanzania's inland transport system
is expected to improve significantly beginning in about 199211993.
9.          The traffic forecast for these countries has been based on a detailed
study of their transport requirements under the Great Lakes Corridor Study (Green
Cover, November 1988).   It is projected that: (i) Burundi will continue to
utilize Dar es Salaam as its main transit port; (ii) Rwanda will continue to use
Mombasa as its main transit port; (iii) Uganda, which has expressed its desire
to balance the use of the two ports, will divert a greater share of its traffic
to Dar es Salaam (equal to half of its non-petroleum traffic); and (iv) Zaire



Annex 4-4
Page 4 of S
will continue to use both ports, splitting the traffic equally. Based on these
assumptions, the total traffic of ZBR and Uganda will increase to 643,000 tonnes
by 1995, with Uganda traffic increasing at a rate of 251 p.a., Burundi and Rwand.a
traffic increasing at 61 and 42, respectively, and Zaire traffic roughly constant
at its current level of 90,000 tonnes p.a.
SOUTh AFRICAN BORDER CLOSURE
10.         Although the fluid political situation in Southern Africa makes a
scenario of South African border closure uncertain, the impact of such a move
on traffic through Dar es Salaam port has been considered. The effect on traffic
through Dar es Salaam of a closure of the South African border would depend
heavily on its timing and on the availability of other transport corridors.
The interim report of an ongoing Southern Africa Transport and Communications
Commission project (Study of the Capacity of the Port of Dar es Salaam, SATCC
Project No.3.7.2) forecasts that, if the RSA border were closed, dry cargo
through Dar es Salaam in 1990 would range from 2.5 million tonnes if all other
transport routes in the SADCC region were open, to 5.9 million tonnes if the
TAZARA route to Dar es Salaam alone were open. An intermediate scenario, in
which the Benguela, Limpopo and Beira-Malawi railways are closed, suggests
traffic levels of 2.8 million tonnes in 1990 rising to 3.1 million tonnes in 1995
(see Table 4.1).
Table 4.1
Port of Dar es Salaam
Dry Carso Forecasts Assuming South African Border Closure
(Tonnes 000)
Corridors Open
Year                All                  Some                 TAZARA Only
1990                2,496                2,781                5,854
1992                2,624                2,909                6,035
1995                2,816                3,102                6,306
2000                3,103                3,388                6,848
Note: 'Some  corridors equals all except Benguela, Limpopo and Beira.
Sources SATCC Project No.3.7.2, Interim Report.
These forecasts are corroborated by an UNCTAD report, dated December 1988
(RAF1861046), which suggests that demand for dry cargo traffic through Dar es
Salaam could be as high as 4.7 million tonnes p.a. if there were a sudden RSA
border closure before mid-1990, but only 2.7 million tonnes p.a. if there were
a 'planned disengagement' after 1990-91 (i.e assuming that most alternative
routes were open).



Annex 4-4
Page 5 of 5
11.         Compared with the project's base case forecasts (which assumed no
border closures), the inteimediate scenario projections imply that an RSA border
closure would divert to Dar es Salaam additional traffic of 650,000 tonmes In
1990, falling to 150,000 tonnes in 1995. With the planned Implementation of the
proposed project, an additional 650,000 tonnes In 1990 would just barely be
manageable, as long as no more than 300,000 tonnes were in containerized foam
and no more than 400,000 tonnes in break-bulk form. In succeeding years, the
additional traffic could be handled more easily. If the project does not go
ahead, however, approximately 200,000 additional tonnes could be handled in 1990,
assuming it were all in break-bulk form; in 1991, this would fall to less than
100,000 tonnes and in future years there would be no capacity at all for traffic
diverted from the RSA routes.



TANZNIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
SUHMARY DRY CARGO TRAFFIC FORECASTS FOR DSM PORT WMTH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
All tonnag_ In 000 Toneon
1989      1990       1991       1092       1993       1994       1996      1996       1997
WIM PROJECT:                              -    --   -    -   -                                  -
Container Terminal
Loaded TELr                            60,149     57,954    67,615    79,908    96,259    105,865   116,670    123,677    141,700
Container Tenmn                           62         798        922     1,091      1,315      1,447      1,597      1,761      1,942
Conventional Terminal
Loaded TEne                             8,659      4,221      4,918     6,530      7,028      7,724      6,512      9,U1      10,339
Container Ton_.                            50         68        07         60         96        106        ale        128        142
Other Dry Cergo Tonn                    1,298      1,299      1,291      1,262     1,180      1,206      1,282      1,252      1,266
Total Tone.                             1,84       1,857      1,856      1,842     1,234      1,614      1,349      1,360      1,406
Total Dry Corgp Tom                       2,025      2,146      2,260     2,418      2,699      2,761      2,945      8,141      8,851
Total Loaded TEUe                        58,66      62,075    72,441    86,788    103,282   118,609   126,162    187,956    152,08
Total Continer Tenno                        732        e40        969     1,171      1,411      1,65      1,718      1,99       2,064
Shere Coatainerized Caro                   86.1J     89.4x      48.43     49.13      54.11      56.23      56.23      00.23      62.23
WITHOUT PROJECT:
Container Terinal
Loaded TEUV                            50,149    67,864    60,800    60,800    60,800    60,3a0         0o,8oo    60,t0       60,o0o
Container Tonnm                           662        788        622       822        622        622        622        622        622
Conenntlonel Terminal
Loaded TEUls                            s,os       4,221      4,400     4,400      4,400      4,400      4,400      4,400      4,400
Continer Tonnn                             S0         56        so         60         60         6o         6o         6o         so
Other Dry Cargo Tenne                   1,298      1,299      1,896     1,551      1,717      1,6        1,06       1,060      1,606
Total Ton.n                             1,848      1,857      1,458     1,611      1,777      1,666      1,666      1,66       1,66
Total Dry Carpo Toeeo                     2,026      2,146      2,260     2,488      2,599      2,e60      2,690      2)690      2,690
Total Loaded tEU                         58,606     62,075    64,700      U4,700    64,700    64,700    04,700       U4,700    64,700
Total Contalner Tenne                       72         646       662        682        862         82        S82        62         662
Share Continerized Cargo                   86.11      89.43      36.73     86.23      88.93      82.63      82.63      62.3       8 #2.6
Reassigned Tonoe                              0          0        100       270        498       655         520        406        400
Diverted Ton.r.                               0          0         0          0          0         71        256        451        6o6
Notes:
1. With or without the projoet, 98.2  of TEU  (o through tho Container Terminal, 6.6X through the Conventional Terminal.
2. Constrained by torae space, loadd container capacity Is 166,000 TEU. p. . with the project, 64,700 TEU p... witohot.
8. With 6 berth. and a 90X berth occupancy limit, conventional teroinal capecity is 1,968,000 tonne without the project,
rising to 2,649,000 tonmo wit the projoet.
4. 'Recie ged teennge Is cargo which would have usd the Container Terminal with the project but has to us the Conventlonal
Tereinal without the projoet.
S. 'Diverted tonnue  Is cargo which would have used Der with projoet but has to use another port without the projeet.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
SHIPS' SERVICE TIME AND SHIPS' WAITING TIME AT DSM PORT WITH THE PROJECT
WITH THE PROJECT
1990      1991       1992      1998      1994       1995      1996       1997
CONTAINER TERMINAL:                      -         ---        -          -         -         --          ---
Loau"d TEUs Handled                   67,654    67,615    79,908    96,269   105,985    110,670   128,677   141,700
Total TEUs Handled                    068,88    60,m99    95,032   114,485   125,910   188,761   152,923   168,58o
Productivity (TEts/ornq hour)             28        26         88       a8         44         44         44        44
Handling Capecity (TEUs p.a.)        170,126   207,110   200,867   299,817   847,168   847,160   847,166   847,156
Berth Occupaney (t)                      40X        89x        86X       83x       a6x        406        44X       496
TELs Handled per Ship                    870       887        406       424       444        465        436       509
Average Service Tim  (Days)             2.09      1.U3       1.64      1.58       1.48      1.48       1.52      1.57
Ships' Service Tit  (Days)              868        887        84        414       407        441        479       620
Cost Ships" Service Tim US$000         5,164     6,148      6,108     6,602      6,408     6,867      6,868     6,916
Ships* Waiting Tim  (Days)               26         15         12        17         12        22         so        52
Cost Ships" Waiting Time US$000          810       206        158       220        162       298        609       692
CONWENTWINL TERMINAL:
Toone. Handled (000 Tonnes)            1,857     1,8i8      1,842     1,264      1,814     1,84       18'0     1,400
Productivity (Tonm/berth day)            776       640        905       971       971        971        971       971
Handling Cap city (000 Tonnes p.r.)    1,988     2,146      2,812     2,461      2,885     2,635      2,886     2,8B5
Berth Occupancy (5)                       soX       6an        s8o       52X        465       48X        49S       06o
Tonnes Handlid per Ship                1,660     1,880      1,860     1,860      1,680     1,860      1,660     1,660
Averap Service Tim  (Days)              2.4e      2.21       2.06      1.92       1.92      1.92       1.92      1.92
Ships" Service Tim  (Days)             1,748     1,617      1,482     1,822      1,868     1,869      1,421     1,4C0
Cost Ships' Service Tim US$000        15,208    14,068    12,897    11,504    11,770    12,062    12,887    12,617
Shtps' Waiting Time (0Day)               157        97         59        26        14         14         14        1S
Cost Ships' Waiting Tim US$000         1,8S9       844        S16       280       118        121        124       126
TOTAL:
Ships" Service Tim  (Days)             2,136     2,004      1,666     1,786      1,759     1,880      1,900     1,970
Cost Ships' Service Tim USOOO        20,872    19,211    18,000    17,006    17,177      17,949    18,736    19,588
Ships' Waiting Time (Doys)               181       112         71        48        26         J6         58        67
cost Ships' Waiting Tim USJ00          1,679     1,060        069       460       260        414        68        618u
NOTEs
1. See Ilte at foot of Annex 4-8.



. {- 4 1
TA.AIA
POT MODERNIZATION PROJECT I
SHNIS' SERICE TINE AND RSH    AMT     TIE AT DSU PORT "W     7NE PJFCr
WrZIWT DE PROJECT
1990      1M.       1992       199"      SON        1n        so         11
CMD  TERMNAL                                                  -         ---                   ---
Lee"  TEU Hanle                      gy,@4    00,309    80,s l,00 O,JO         ,s0        60,=0    OD,=0    00,800
Total TE& HNdied                     06,606    70,041    70,941    70,061    70,061    70,.01    70,061    7,0641
Poodactlvty (TEb/gagh bor)               28         24        is         26        to         s0        s0        so
Needling Capeclty (TElb p..)         170,128   1,7523   192,81?   207,110   221,004    2a.m"    2n2a,m        2212a.m
nbr" Occpncy (5)                         405        405       873        343       8         82s        8         8
Stemra  Cpity (Mue* p..)            0S,800    60,800    60,800    6O 900    60,800        0,#0      60,800 0o,,  8
Storage Bsrth  O_cupancy' (3)            96s       100a      aces       lorn      ices      aces       10as      1aces
TWskEtb H i.drShip                      870        870       870        870       80        870        87        80
A.: aye Service Tim (Days)             2.09       2.40      2.40       2.40      2.40       2.40      2.40      2.40
Ships ISivico Tl_s 4Dsiyr)1~            86a        U1        461        461       461       461        461       461
Cose Ships' Service  i_ U5200065,106             6,129    6S12        6,12      6,129 8,129          6,129     0,129
Ship.' Waiting Ti_ (Days)                28      2,009     2,009      2,009     2,009      2,009     2,009     2,009
Cost ehips' Waiing TlT 8m U10    26,725    26,725    26,726    26,725    26,725    26,72                       26,72
CONVENTIONAL TERMINL:
Tosse Handled (000 Tonres)            1,.57      1,458     1,611       ,7M      1,866      1,6s6     1,65S    1'6M
Productivity (Toese/behr day)           71         711       71         711       71         71        711       711
Nandling Capaocty (000 Tonn  p...)     1,617     1,.6?     2,070      2,076     2,076      2,070     2,076      2,070
Berth Occupncy (M)                       7          OOX       76x        o         9X05      a0s        s0        905
Tene HaNdled per Ship                  1,660     1,0       1,660      1,660     1,660      1,60     1l66O    1,66
Averays aiervie Ti_ (Days)             2.62       2.62      2.62       2.62      2.62      2.02       2.02      2.62
Ships* Service Tio (Days)             1,900      2,051     2,26e      2,500     2,626      2,626     2,02       2,626
Cost Ships' Serv ce Tim USI0          16,599    17,06s    19,715    21,746    22,062    22,002    22,602    12,662
$hips'  aitling Tim  (Days)              05        554       885        950     1,524      1,524     1,524      1,524
Co  Ships' Waiting Tim US8000         2,656      4,616     8,.82      8,204    18,260    18,260    13,260    18,26
TOTAL:
Ships' Servic  Tim  (Days)            2,290      2,512     2,727      2,9060    8,069      8,009     806        8,069
Cost Ships' Service Tio UtS000       21,762    28,972    25,644    27,676    26,092    29,992    28,002    26,92
Ships' Waiti  Tim  (Days)               829      2,663     2,896      2,959     8,584      I,54      8,584      8.584
Coot Ships' waiting Tim  UOOO         2,966    81,542    30,076    84,986           89,985 89,s5     9,065    89,96
IIOTE:
1. Se Note at foot of AnneX 44.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
SAVINCS IN SHIPS' SERVICE TIME AND SHIPS' WAITING TIME AT OSM PORT DUE TO PROJECT
Ust 000:                                   1990       1991       1m        1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
WM  THE PROJECT:
Cost Ship.' Service Tim.               20,872    19,211      18,000    17,008     17,177     17,949     16,736     19,583
Cost Ship.' Waiting Time                1,079      1,060        e69       450        280        414        683        616
WITHOUT THE PROJECT:
Cost Ships' Service Time               21,762     2,972      25,644    27,876     28,992     2,9m       2,9m       26,9m2
Cost Ships' Waiting Tim                 2,966     81,542     30,076    34,966     89,966     89,965     89,965    89,965
SAIGS:
Cost Ships' S r-Ice Til  (ssT)          1,89'      4,701      7,644    10,689    11,815      11,048     10,254      9,459
Cost Ship.' Waiting Tile (SWT)          1,267     80,492     29,407    34,518    89,706    80,571       80,852     39,167
Tananalnn Share of Total Traffic (X)     48.43      48.15      42.0#     41.93      41.43      40.65      40.65      40.6e
Tanzanian Share o SST Saving                0        802      1,026      1,671     2,277      2,440      2,258      2,092
Tanzanian Shar ot SWT Saving                0        279      0,571     8,264      7,286      6,219      6,072      8,028
NOTES:
both Scenrios:
1. All _mty containers handled at Contlaw Terminal.
2. Handling Capacity' Is thoretical mximim capacity, I.e. 1005 occupancy.
S. Container handling capacity aseums: 675 effective working time; one gang per ship; two berths.
4. Continer ships' servic  tim  include 0.5 day per *hip for mooring/nmooring.
5. Conventional Terminal productlvity rates take Into account orpingu_nmoring time.
6. Tesa.r handled per conventional ship asmed to remain at 1 6o6
7. Ship coats: Container Ship a Ut=18,J00 per day; Conventional Ship a USJ8,800 per day.
0. Wating t7Mo at Container Terminal assume Intervals between arrivals and service time are best doesribed by an
Erlang 2 diciiribution.
9. Wliting tim  at Conv. Terminal asum  ran do  Intervol between srrivele and Erlang-2 distributed ervice time.
10. 50X of  vings accr  to shipownera; 50X to Tanzania and neighboring cov2tris, lagged by one yer.
11. Tanzanian hare of rgion's evings * *hare of total trafflc.
With Project:
12. Container Terminal productivlty assum: third Sa ios In operation from 199 onwards; SSG productivity ri0  from
16 boexe/gang hour to 20 boxes by 1992; ship' goer productivity rlesm frm 5 boxe/gung hour to 10 boxes by 192.
18. Conventional TermInal productivity *suomem  tonnm  per berth day rise frm 776 to 790 by 198.
14. Crneo ava labtilty assumd to be 75M tn 1990 and 191  01 S ro m 1992 oards.
15. TEUo handled par container ship asumd to grow at on third the rate of total TEU growth.
10. Conventlon.1 Trminal has 7 bertha until 1993 while rhabilIltation work takes place, 8 from 1094 onwards.
Without Project:
17. Container Terminal productivity assumes: third SS0 Is not purchased; SSO productivity rise  tre  10 boxes/gng bouro
to 20 boxs. by 1994; ship's gear productivity rlem  from   boxes/gang hour to 7 bo'e= by 1094.
18. Conventional Terminal productivity assums: tonnes par berth day stays at 1989 10.l of 711.
19. Crane  vailabilIty a sue to stay at 75S.
20. Total TEUJ handled par contalnr ship assmed to stay at 870. NB: Loaded TEUs handled par ship equals 15. 
21. Conventional Terminal hot 7 berths until 1991,   f rom 1M   onwards. RehabiIltatlon work finished two yers soener.
22. From 1991, since storage spac  Is the binding constraint, ships' waiting tie  In the Container Terminal Is based on a I berth
scenarlo, with service ties dependent on speed of delIvery of TEUL from the etorage ama and tV  number ot loaded TEUs hndled
per ship. Although storag  space i completely full (i.e 1005 torage 'berth occupancy'), ships' waiting tism consrvatively
-              'e -+-n* Aeeunanev. The 965 storaoe occusancy in 1990 conservatively assumd not to affect handling rate.



Annex 4-9
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Container Dwell Time and Customs Assistance
A. Introduction
1.      In April/May 1989, a World Bank mission team and a Customs specialist
from UNCTAD both separately examined the issue of trade facilitation at Dar es
Salaams the World Bank in the context of the proposed Port Modernization Project
II, and UNCTAD as part of their Regional Transit Traffic Project. A 4oint World
Bank/UNCTAD team held further discussions with representatives of THA, Customs,
NASACO and the Board of External Trade in June 1989.   The focus of these
discussions was the extremely high dwell time of containers in the port of Dar
es Salaam and how it might best be reduced. This note describes the current
situation and its costs, and proposals for improving it.
B. Current Situation
2.      The latest available figures (July 1989) indicate that inward-bound
containers spend 37 days on average in the port. Of these, local imports have
an average dwell time of 34 days and transit traffic 40 days. These figures are
lower than those prevailing a few months ago (in June 1988 the average dwell time
for inward-bound containers was 57 days), but they are still very high by
international standards. The total number of containers on hand is considerably
highez than the technical capacity of the container terminal and Kurasini and
Ubungo depots combined, making complete congestion a serious threat.
3.      High dwell time is expensive.  Each additional day that a full import
container spends in the port costs the economy an estimated US$5 for the
opportunity cost of the capital tied up in the goods, and as much as US$14 in
demurrage charges to the container owner (assuming the container is not returned
within 28 days of discharge): i.e. a total of US$19. Assuming a domestic import
volume of 24,000 TEUs per annum, this represents a cost to the Tanzanian economy
of US$456,003 per annum for each additional day of dwell time. In addition, the
costs are just as great for importers from neighboring land-locked countries who
use Dar es Salaam port.
4.      More importantly in the long run, high dwell time reduce  the effective
capacity of the container terminal and therefore of the port as a whole. Ships'
waiting time and freight costs would both rise and, once the pt'   'ad reached
full capacity, it would lose all additional traffic completely.
C. ProPosals
5.      The Bank's and UNCTAD's recommendations fall into three categoriess
sanctions against those who misuse the port in one way or another (e.g. traders
who misdeclare the contents of containers or who effectively use the port as a
warehouse); improvements to Customs procedures and the whole document processing



Annex 4-9
Page 2 of 6
system; and institutional strengthening of TANPRO, the Tanzania Trade
Facilitation Council.   The World Bank and UNCTAD will provide technical
assistance and training to Customs and to TANPRO, subject to these proposals
being adopted.   US$2 million of IDA's contribution to the proposed Port
Modernization Project II has been allocated for this purpose (see Table A at the
end of this annex for a preliminary breakdown.  This is in addition to any
assistance UNCTAD may provide prior to effectiveness of the IDA Credit (i.e.
about June 1990).
D. Sanctions
6.      The sanctions recommended below are all accepted practice in ports
around the world. Some of them in fact are considerably less stringent than
typically found elsewhere. Together they should substantially reduce the number
of containers in the port.
(a) Storage Fees
The fees which traders are charged by THA for storing their
containers in the port should be increased so that there is a
strong incentive to use storage space outside the port. For
import containers, after a ftee period of four days, the storage
fee is currently just Tsh 2,000 per day. A higher rate (say,
Tsh 4,000 per day) should be charged after 14 days in the port.
(b) Empty Containers
Regional trade flows create a net surplus of empty W.ontainers
in Dar es Salaam, which ship-owners (who also own the
containers) like to keep in the port ready for loading if the
opportunity should arise. As from 1/7/89, empties will be given
ten days free in the port, followed by ten days at US$4 per day
and then US$8 per day until loading or delivery. We propose
treating empties more strictly: they should only be admitted to
the port five days prior to loading. If they stay longer, they
should be charged US$8 per day immediately. Empties which are
due to be stuffed should be delivered to Kurasini depot rather
than to the Container Terminal.
(c) Unmanifested Containers
The installation of a Fax machine at Nasaco and increased
vigilance on their part should reduce the number of unmanifested
containers arriving (they currently account for about 5S of the
containers in the port). THA should either refuse to discharge
unmanifested containers or else inform ship-owners that punitive
fines will be levied for each unmanifested container that
arrives in the port of Dar es Salaam.
(d) Auctions
Containears whose customs entries have not been lodged 21 days
after discharge and those whose import duties have not been paid
21 days after payment became due should become the property of
Customs and be auctioned by them as soon as possible thereafter.
If Customs' facilities in the port are too small to do this on
an ongoing basis, they should set up a secure warehouse outside



Annex 4-9
Page 3 of 6
the port in which auctions can take place. The Commissioner of
Customs has agreed to hold at least three auctions per month of
the contents of these eontainers.   This is a condition for
including assistance to Customs as a project component.
(e)  Fines for Misdeclaration
Fines for misdeclaration have historically provided very little
disincentive to traders not to cheat. In the June 1989 Budget,
the maximum fine for misdeclaration was increased from Tsh 3,000
to 502 of the tax evaded or 502 of the value of the goods,
whichever is greater. This is a move in the right direction,
but a further increase should be instituted, at least to the
level where the fine equals the amount of tax the importer is
trying to evade.
E. Customs and Carno Clearance Procedures
7.      Significant  progress  has  recently  been  made  in  simplifying
documentation. A new Export Entry Form which replaces five previous forms and
a Road Customs Transit Declaration which replaces seven forms have just been
introduced.   A new Standard Shipping Note is ready to be introduced and a
combined Import Duty and Sales Tax Entry Form is currently being designed.
These changes are forecast to reduce Customs' processing time by up to one week.
Furthermore, a decision has been taken to deal with all transit containers in
the port rather than routing their paperwork through the Customs Long Room, and
a softening of bond requirements is being contemplated.
8.      These are encouraging signs and suggest that Customs is moving from a
mode of maximum tariff generation to one where broader aspects of trade
facilitation and the economy as a whole are taken into account. Below a few
ways are outlined in which Customs can build on recent developments as well as
institute additional improvements. Some of these suggestions involve the World
Bank and UNCTAD; some can be achieved independently.
(a) Documentation Simplification
Final adjustments to the Import Duty and Sales Tax Entry Form
and implementation of the new Standard Shipping Note will be
coordinated by TANPRO working closely with THA, Customs, NASACO
and the Central Freight Bureau. Mr. Roos, the Coordinator of
UNCTAD's Trade Facilitation Programme (FALPRO) will advise
TANPRO in these matters.   The second phase of the document
simplification process should take place after the various port
users have digested the new forms. This phase will concentrate
more on the documentation process rather than on the forms
themselves, although certain format improvements might be
warranted based on experience to that date.   Process issues
include the required number of copies of each form, their
precise routing, the sequencing of administrative steps etc.
UNCTAD have offered to provide an expert in these matters for
up to two months.



Annex 4-9
Page 4 of 6
(b)  Logistical lavroYemets
Related to the issue of document routing is the layout of the
Customs Long Room. Customs sensibly plans to create specialized
desks for the different classes of imports: government,
parastatal, commercial aud exempted. There should also be an
Increase from 10 to 15 in the number of officers qualified to
examine documents. Transit goods should be dealt with entirely
within the port and their documentation should bypass the Long
Room completely. These logistical improvements would be greatly
facilitated if Customs were able to occupy more office space in
the port, of which there is a great shortage. Not only would
this alleviate pressure in the Long Room, but it would also
allow greater coordination between the payment and verification
stages.
(c) SamEling
Institution of the 1002 verification policy vas one of the key
reasons for the exceptionally high dwell time figures recorded
last  year.    In  conjunction with  the  stiffer  fines  for
miadeclaration, a random sampling process should be introduced
both at the verification stage and in the Long Room. By
verifying, say, one in three of the consignments, considerably
fewer containers would be held up at the verification stage.
Since the stiffer fines would reduce the incidence of
misdeclaration, the combination of high fines and sampling might
even increase Customs' revenue at the same time as reducing
average dwell time. Customs would still be able to estimate the
incidence of misdeclaration from those containers it samples.
In the unlikely event that misdeclaration were to increase,
Customs could revert to verifying a higher proportion of
consignments. Reducing the proportion sampled could also be used
as a means of relieving especially tight bottlenecks. Customs
has committed to reducing the effective verification rate to one
container in three at most.
(d)  Customs-bonded Warehouses
Dwell time of local imports could be significantly reduced by
increasing the number of customs-bonded warehouses in Dar es
Salaam. The Commissioner of Customs has agreed to write to the
General Manager of every parastatal, informing them of the
procedures for setting up customs-bonded warehouses and
encouraging them to do so.
(e) ?Taknin in Basic Customs Tecbniques
There are a number of technical skills which Customs could
improve with relatively minor training, for example the
followings where and how to seal transit containers; assessment
and release of bond cover for transit containers; knowledge of
the Harmonized System which is replacing the Brussels Tariff
Nomenclature as the basis for tariffs; and use of a loose-leaf
tariff document which can be easily updated.   UNCTAD have
offered to provide an specialist in customs techniques who would
spend one to two months in Dar es Salaam training a core group



Annex 4-9
Page 5 of 6
of Customs officers in these basic skills who could then train
their fellow officers.
(f)  Lona-Term Skill Denlomeamt
New graduates currently receive siz weeks initial training,
which is very short by any standards. Customs have suggested
a one-year programme, comprising four months at the Institute
of Tax Administration, four months on the job and four months
back at the Institute.   This would require expanding the
Institute, which can only hold 110 students at the moment.
Regional heads and section heads would also benefit from a
series of four to six week seminars. Subject to analysis of
Customs' training needs by an UNCTAD mission in late 1989, the
Bank will include resources for these activities as a component
in the proposed Port project.
(g) Hardware
Customs are in need of some fairly basic hardware, such as
sealing tongs, calculators, perforating macbines etc.   The
UNCTAD technical expert will be able to assess precisely vhat
is needed and the purchase of such items will be financed
through UNCTAD or the Bank.
(h)  ASYCUDA
UNCTAD have developed a computerized system for customs
administration (ASYCUDA), which is being adopted in a great many
developed and developing countries around the world and is
likely to be accepted as a standard by the PTA region. Among
other things, the system checks all data, calculates the duties
and taxes to be paid, handles day-to-day accounting and produces
statistics based on verified customs data. If Tanzania were to
request this system, UNCTAD would provide the software and
training and the Bank would include the hardware necessary to
operate the system (mainly printers and terminals) as part of
the Port project.
E. TANPRO
9.      The Tanzania Trade Facilitation Council has been in existence eight
years, with the Board of External Trade acting as its secretariat. Like similar
bodies in other countries, it is the only Qrganization in the country whose sole
purpose is to facilitate both imports and exports. It is therefore in an unique
position to coordinate the simplificatizn of documentation and the speeding up
of  the whole  cargo  clearance  process.    Unfortunately,  it  is  currently
understaffed and underfunded, with only one person working part-time and
attendance at its governing council sporadic at best.   The following steps
should allow TANPRO to become the central force in improving trade facilitation
in Dar es Salaam.
(a)  Governins Council
Customs should be given a higher profile within TANPRO so that
their support is gained early on in any new initiative. They
are the organization whose day-to-day activities are most



Annex 4-9
Page 6 of 6
clearly affected by TANPRO's work and it is not surprising that
they might try to resist reforms which they have little hand in
developing. A representative from Customs should be given a
more responsible role on TANPRO's governing council. Members
of the rejuvenated governing council should be middle le-el
managers with sound operating knowledge of their respective
organizations and support from senior management.
(b) Manual and WorkshoD
The Board of External Trade (BET) are publishing a "Tanzania
Trade Facilitation Manual" to coincide with their tenth
anniversary at the end of June.  UNCTAD will assist BET in
printing the manual and will also run a workshop to coincide
with its publication. The workshop is planned to last one week,
with about 30-50 participants from the private and public
sectors.
(c) Technical Assistance
The Bank and UNCTAD will provide technical assistance to
strengthen TANPRO.  This assistance will take the form of a
number of short-term consultants (including Tanzanians), rather
than a full-time employee of TANPRO. This will allow resources
to be matched to the needs of the moment. For instance, a
documentation specialist would be most useful early on, while
a transit specialist would be more appropriate once the
documentation simplification has been completed. If automation
becomes the focus, a systems expert would be hired. The total
assistance will be of the order of one to two man-years. As
requested, TANPRO has drawn up terms of reference for a local
customs specialist and an expatriate documentation specialist.
Essential hardware (such as word processing and reproduction
equipment) will also be provided to TANPRO.



Annex 4-9
Table 1
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT AND EQgnPMENT FOR CUSTOMS AND TANPRO
Base Cost
ActivitylItem                            Man-months        (US$000)
A.   Customs
1.   Basic Customs Techniques                       12              150
2.   Customs Equipment                               -               50
3.   Long-term Skill Development Program             -              900
4.   Harmonized System/Documentation                15              180
5.   H.S./Doc.ientation Workshops                    -               50
6.   Hardware for Computerized System (ASYCUDA)    -                400
27            1730
B.   TANPRO
1.   Trade Facilitation Adviser                     12              150
2.   Local Legal Expert                             12               20
3.   Training                                                        70
4.   Equipment                                      _                30
24             270
TOTAL     51             2000
NOTES:
1.   TANPRO  - Tanzania Trade Facilitation Council.
2.   ASYCCMA - Automated System for Customs Data, developed by UNCTAD.
3. Design of long-term skill development program to be based on findings
of initial UNCTAD missions concerning basic customs techniques.
4. Amounts may be reallocated between categories, subject to IDA
approval.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT ST
SAVINGS FROM CONTAINER DWELL TIME REDUCTION AT D0M PORT
low       1991       1992       1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
TOTAL LOADED IWORT CONTAIR  (TElls)    8,694       41,060    47,998    67,043    62,632    68,067        74,017     00,464
TANZANIA  SUARE OF IWRT TElU (3)          66.1X      59.7       5.7X      46.09      46.0       46.2%      45.41     44.63
TANZANIAN  RT CONTAINERS (TEI)          25,861     24,543    25,764    27,044    29,165       81,461    3,5065    35J,64
AVERAGE DELL TIME OF LOCAL
WOMRTS WITOUT THE fOJECT (DAYS)             S1          0         80        80         so         80         so        so
AVRE DNELI TIE WMH  HE
PRJECT LAOED ONE YE   (DAYS)                3I         25         22        20         is         16         15        1s
AVEAVE ODELL TIE SAVED (DAYS)                0          5          8        10         12         14         15        16
TOTAL DELL TNE SAVED (000 DAYS)              0        128        206       2:0        850        440        504       en
TOTAL SAVINS (U  000)                        0        014      10801      1,852     1,750      2,202      2,519     2,690
LAGOS BETI TO TANZANIA CS 000)               0        W07        822     1,191      1,561      1,970      2,860     2,604
NOTES:
1. Total loaded import containers includes Tanzanian and transit traffic.
2. Without the project, avorage dre 1  time for Tanzanian liports (both centainerle  ad brook-bulk) amd    be o0 day.,
the current averag  for brak-bulk !sports and lower than the best figure achieved In the Contalner Terminal (31 days).
8. With the project averag dre l t   corr pond to trge9t agreed by IA  lagged by oe yar.
4. Savings equ 1 Rh per TEU per day, the  pportunity cost (103) of the capital tied up in US818,200 worth of
goods In each TEU (suming USJ1400 per tonne and 18 tonnee per Import TEL). Dmerrge chargen excluded.
. Tanzania a* u md to gain benefit. only from reduced dwell tim  on domestic imports.
6. Savigs laggd by half a year.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROECT ZI
SAVINGS RELATIN TO REASSZONED AND DIVERTED TRAFFIC
1990      1991       1992       199       1994       199S       1o        1997
INCRAE COSTS
R"eassign  Traff Ic (Tono 000)             0        100        270       498        565        520        483       460
Vales of Reassined Traffic (USS000)        0   189,007    77,80    690,532   776,714   727,882   S,392    644,815
Addltlonal Insrsnc  Cota (US000)           0        S60      1,510     2,762      8,10       2,912      2,734     2,677
Tanlan Share of Containers M)           66.85      52.43      47.7X     42.73      42.5S      42.43      41.JS     40.2X
Tanzantin Share of Cost  (US1000)          0        296       n7        1,178     1,822      12m3       1,126      s,00
COSTS OF DIVERSION:
Option A: Trsffic Divert to Tngp
Diverted Trafflc (Tones 000)               0          0          0         0         71        256        451       60
Add. Transprt Ct   000)                    0          0          0         0      C,871     22,931    40,694    59,435
Tanzanlon Share (O0)0                                 0          0         0      2,711      9,714     10,748    23,32
Option B: TraffIt Diverted to Foroign Port
Diverted Trafflc (TnnOO 000)               0          0          0         0         n         256        451       660
Diverted Traffic (This)                    0          0          0         0      6,181     16,685     32,91     43,217
Lost Contributlen (1$0000) 1[3             0          0          0         0      1,295      4,059      8,240     12,054
Loer of EA] or LB] (US80)                0          0          0         0      1,295      4,659      6,240     12,054
NOTES:
1. Value of reaslign   goods a US1400 per toone.
2. Due to hloher ris of daeW  mnd plf era  sbon cargo Is not contalnerized, insurance  osts are as d to ri  by 0.65  of
the vwluo of lmporte gos a*nd by 0.251 of the value ot *xported -odo.
S. Assued that Tanzanian *hare of reassild traffic ls the same s et*sh.re of loaded continters.
4. Costs of diverlion are the loser of: (i) read/rill tranoport costa to Der assuming al: diverted traffic goes to Tngap;
or (11) lost revenu  s a r*sult of diverted traffic going to Monbas or another foreign port.
S. Road/rl I transport Tnga to Oar estimted at USIO per toAnn.
6. Conrvative estiata of lost contribution Is US 110 por TEU for wharfage and USD100 per TEU for jtvsdorlng.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
ECONOMIC COSTS OF PROJECT
USIOOO:                                    1980       1991       3992       1998      1994       1996       1996       1997      TOTAL
CAPITAL COSTS
Civil Works
FX Cst                                  2,2E0      6,142      9,977     4,606        619          o          0          0    24,000
LOCO ICoat.                               911      2,856      2,904       9o4        889          0          0          0      7,478
Adjute  Local ConO                        710      1,687      2,262       731        264          0          0          0       6,824
Total                                   2,96       7,979    12,289       6,557     1,088          0          0          0    29,824
Equipment
FXCosts                                     0      1,295     17,606      1,295         0          0          0          0    20,090
Local Cost                                  0          0         0          0          0          0          0          0          0
Total                                       0      1,296    17,500      1,295          0          0          0          0    20,098
Tehneical Aasi c./ Training
FJXC.t.                                 8,640      4,674      4,716     8,72         S6           0          0          0     17,S72
Local Cot.                                816        72         785       502        140          0          0          0      2,413
Adjusted Locl  Costs                      246        566        678       891        109          0          0          0      1,684
Total                                   8,36       5,289      5,289     4,178        6N           0          0          0     10,256
Totl                                      6,"2      14,518    85,034    11,025       1,752          0          0          0    69,1n
RECURRENT COSTS
Intrastructure Maintnance                    5C        202       426        626        648        546        546        64       8,893
Equlpment Maintenance                         0         63       909        971        971      1,654      1,564      1,564      7,5s
Aitional Operating Cost                       0         a6       514        560         60        550        550        550      8,290
Total                                        a5        800      1,649     2,047      2,007      2,0650     2,650      2,650     14,266
TOTAL                                     6,907    14,818    a8,868      18,072      8,639      2,650      2,60)      2,650    98,444
ES:
1. Coats Include physlcal contingencies but not price contingencles.
2. Non-tradgablh goods (to which a S.C.F. of 0.6 hoa bee  applied) are assuc d to mao  up 906 of all local cosft.
S. Local taxes and duties excluded. Tax component of local costs assumed to be S
4. Capital costa exclude Oi  Jetty strengthening, but include oll pollution equipment.
S. Infrostructure mintenance aossmd to be 2X of capital coot. FX component to 40x.
6. Equipml t maintenance aoumed to be 6X of capitol cost for fir t five years, 6X thereafter. FX component Is M6x.
7. Additional operating cost  (mainly fuel and higher skill mix of operator.) assumed to be 8x of eqipment coste;
FX component Is M. .



TANZANIA                               Annex 5-1
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT I'
Summarized Income Statements: THA
A. Current Tah UMlilons
Year Ending 80/8:           1988     1964     1985     1986     1987     1988
OPERATING REVENUES          688       710    1,005    1,096    2,806    4,662
OPERATING EXPENSES           626      685      818    1,081    1,200    1,884
OPERATING SURPLUS             67       25      187       35    1,605    2,788
NET NON-OPERATING INCOME       1       386      61       61     18       486
NET SURPLUS                   S8       61      238       86    1,768    3,274
B. Current USO Millions
Year Ending 30/6:           1983     1984     1985     1988     1987     1386
OPERATING REVENUES            71       67       Se       83       54       s6
OPERATING EXPENSES           a6        55       46       81       23       22
OPERATING SURPLUS              8        2       10        2       31       33
NET NON-OPERATING INCOME       0        3        3        3        3        6
NET SURPLUS                    6        5       13        6       34       39
Ratios:
OPERATING MARGIN               8X       4X      19X       3X      67X      60%
(Op. Surplus/Rovonues)
NET MARGIN                     8X       9X      24X       8X      83X      70%
(Not SurpIus/Revenued)
Memo Item:
Tab/US0 Period Average       9.6    12.4    18.1    17.5    51.7    83.7



Annex 5-2
TANZANIA
PORT MODEMIZATION PROJECT II
Exchange Rates (Tanzanian Shillings ner US Dollsr)
1982-1989
Period Average           End of Period
1982                9.28                    9.57
1983               11.14                   12.43
1984               15.30                   18.10
1985               17.50                   17.50
1986               32.70                   51.70
1987               64.30                   83.70
1988               97.20                  115.00
1989              145.00                   NA



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Annex 5-3A
Cost Breakdown by Activity (tUSDollar)
1988
DSrect        Direct         Ovorhead      Total
Servic.                      Coat.         Coneral        Cost           Costs         Unit
Pilotog,                     0.42          e.16           0.82          0.89           100 CRT
Tug Servic.a                 101.78        22.25          77.86          201.84        Hour
Navigational Aid             O.W6          0.14           0.88           1.02          100 CRT
Docke                        0.08          0.01           0.02          0.06           Metre/Hour
Moorlng/Unaoorlng            26.27         6.44           19.89          52.69         Operation
Stevedoring Own. Cargo       0.84          0.87           0.28           1.47          Tonno
Stevedoring Bulk             0.90          2.46           0.75           4.20          Tonna
Stevedortng Contalner.       2.22          6.07           1.09           8.98          TEU
Shorphandling con. Cargo     0.06          0.19           0.06           0.88          Tonne
Shorahandling Containers     8.06          7.27           2.88           12."          TEU
Stripping Container.         11.28         28.70          0.64           48.65         TEU
thartago                     0.001         6.0002         0.008         0.0092         Ad Valorem



Annex 5-3B
TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Tariff Structure
Tariff
Service                    Unit              Tariff           Last U1odatC     Paynscter
Shippins
Pilotags                    1e  URT          USD 4.1         September 84        Carrior/Shipowner
Port dues                   100 URT          USO 4.9          September 84       Carrier/Shipowner
Light dues                  10 CRT           USD 4.2         September 84       Carrier/Shipowner
Mooring/Unmooring          Operation         USD 91.8        September 87       Carrier/Shipowner
Tug service C 1,900 (PT   Hour              USO 880.4        May 89            Carter/Shipowner
Tug service < 29,010 ORT   Hour              USD 469.0        May 89             Carri r/Shipowner
Tug service ) 20,080 CRT   Hour              USO 086.0        May S9             Carrior/Shipowner
Dockage                    Metre/hour        USD 0.2          Septembr S4       Carrier/Shipowner
Wherfape
Transit Imports            Ad Valorem        USO 1.2S%       September 85       Shipper/Consignee
Transit Exports            Ad Valorem        USD 1.0X        September Of       Shiper/Consignae
Transit Export Metals      Ad Valorem        USD 0.1251      September 85       Shipper/Consignee
Export Contalners          TEO               USD 120 o       May 89             Shipper/Consigne
Domestic Imports           Ad V lor.         TSH 1.51        December S7        ShIpp r/Consignee
Domestic Exports           Ad Valor..        TSH 1.0X        December 87        Shipper/Consignee
Domestic Trans-shipat      Ad Valorem        TSH 0.81        December 87        Shipper/Consignoe
Cargo Oegrations
Stevedoring General        Harbr Tonne       USO 6.9         September 84        Carrier/Shipowner
Stevedoring Bulk           Harbr Tonn.       USD 4.4         September 84        Carrier/Shipowner
Shorehandling Import       Harbr Tonne       TSH 120          July 89           Shipper/Consignee
Shorehandling Exports      Harbr Tonne       TSH 100          July 89           Shipper/Consignee
Transit Exports            Harbr Tonne       USO 2.1         September 65       Shipper/Consigne
Transit Iports             Harbr Tonne       USD 8.0         September 65       Shipper/Concignee
Transit Storage            Tonne/Day         USO 1.4         September 85       Shipper/Consigne
Container Handling *
Stevedoring pFCL           TEU               USO OF           May 89            Carrier/Shipowner
Stevedorlng LCL            TEU               USO 180          May 89             Carrier/Shipowner
Stevedoring Empty          TEU               USD 40           may 89            Carrier/Shipowner
Shor*hndlng FCL Local      TEU               TSH 4,00        may 89
Shorshndlng FCL Trsnsit    TEU               USO so          may 89             Shipper/Consognee
Stripping/Stuff. Local     TEU               TSH 5,080        May 89            Shipper/Consigno
Stripping/Stuff. Transit   TEU               USO 40           May 89            Shipper/Coneignes
Customs Exain. Local       TEU               TSH 12,060      may 89             ShIpper/Conoine
Customs Examin. Transit    TEU               USD 90          may 89             Shipper/Conoignee
Storage FCL                TEiU/Day          TSH 2,0eo       July 69            Shipper/Consiognee
* Export containers with wheat, saize, s.ar, fertiliaer, rice, cement: USD 58 per TEU.
s Rates for handling containers at Bertht: 1-8 ore 19-251 hlher.



TANZANIA                            Amex 5-4
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Summarized Balance Sheets: THA
A. Current Teb Millionw
At 80/6w                        168      1984     1986     1986     106      1996
Current Assets                   747      912      962      944    2,297    4,120
Gres  Fixod Assete             1,704    1,758    1,829    1,901    1,979    2,570
Accumulated DOprecistion        679      640      6sO      981    1,012    1,128
Not Fixed Ashet                 625      916      9u       920      067    1,447
Work In Proces                   117      278      806      568    2,229    4,658
Other Investmnts                  84      104      120      150      250      850
Total Assets                   1,72       2,210    2,882    2,597    5,748   10,77
Current Liabilitios               68      214      156      268    1,162    2,969
Long-tern Oebt                   8s8      788      580    1,258    2,996    5,701
Equity/Accumlated Surplus      1,272    1,268    1,644    1,083    1,695    2,060
Total Liabilities + Equivy     1,728    2,210    2,882    2,697    5,748   10,770
1. Current US11 l Il Ion.
At 80/6:                        1968     1984     1965    1966    1967       1988
Current Asset                     67       60      56        29       as       42
Gross Fixed Assets               158      11       105       S6       81       26
Accumulated Depreciation         79       us       61       80       16       12
Net Fixed Ae ts                  74       eo       U4       28       is       15
Work In Proc s                    11       1        17       16       36       s0
Other Invostmsnts                  8        7        7        5        4        4
Total Assets                     155      144      188       79       89      111
Current Liabilities                6       14        9        6       16       81
Long-term Debt                    84       48       8o       as       47       59
Equity/Accumulated Surplus       114      68        94       88       26       21
Total Liabilities * Equity       155      144      18        79       69      111
Ratios:
Current Ratio                   11.0      4.8      6.1      8.7      2.0      1.4
Debt/(Debt * Equity)              2ax      871      24%      64X      e65      78X
Return on Net Fixed Assets.        7X       ax      20$       4X     170X     231X
Mmo Its:
Tsh/USD at Perlod' En-d         11.1    15.6      17.6     82.7     64.8     97.2
Operating Surplus (Tah a)         67       26      187       86    1,605    2,768
o Equals Operating Surplus/Average of Net Fixed Assets at Bginning and End of Year.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Status of THA's Loans
June 30. 1989
Principal *      Original Amount  Rate                      Date
Outstanding (US$M)       (US$M)         (%)     Currency    Contracted   Maturity   Channel
IBRD 428 *                     0.74                1.8          5.50      USD           1965        1995     DRET
IBRD 638 *                     4.11                11.0         &.0       USD           1969        1994     DRECT
IBRD 865 *                     4.99                8.4          7.25      USD           1972        1997     DIRECT
IDA 024                        0.18                2.5          7.95      USD           1980        1989    ON-LENT
IDA 1536                      28.55               325          11.00      SDR           1985        2009    ON-LENT
DAMEN SHIPYARD                 0.18                 1.7        1238       DG            1985        1991     DRECT
KWAIT                          0.s                  1.6         2.50  KUWAM'DINAR       1982        2009     DRECT
EAD BANK #1                    0.10                6.5         14.00      SEK           1985        1989     DIRECT
EAD BANK #2                    0.08                0.6         14.00      SDR           1985        1989     DIRECr
TREASURY LOAN #1               0.04                2.0          6.0       TSH           1982        1991     DRECT
ZAMBIA #1                      0.05                02           6.O       ZKW           197         1990     DIRECT
ZAMBIA #2                      0.15                 0.1         .00       ZKW           1967        1990     DIRECT
Lent jointly to Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as East African Community.
Original Amounr represents Tanzania's share only (32%).
Note: Does not include grants under the ongoing project.



Annex 5-6
Page I of 5
TANZANIA
PORT NODERNIZATION PROJECT II
TAI's Corporate Financial Policy
Introduction
1.        Based on discussions with the World Bank and a detailed
evaluation of THA's financial position, the following set of
recommendations has been made by THA's Finance Department:
(a) Repayment to the Government oft the fixed asset component of
past and existing donor grants: all World Bank funds on-lent to                  L
THA; and all future donor grants. All future grants will have a
twenty year term with five year grace, at 11 interest.
(b) Debt-to-equity ratio to be kept below 60s40.
(c) Adoption of a dividend policy.
(d) Institution of a well-funded but rigorously administered
productivity incentive scheme.
(e) Investment of short-term funds in higher yielding assets.
(f) Tariff structure to be used as a means of altering the behaviour
of port users, as well as as a cost recovery mechanism.
2.        Taken together, these proposals will allow THA to make a
consistent and significant contribution to the country's finances without
jeopardising its own ability to fund vital capital investment. These
proposals are discussed in turn, then an analysis is presented showing the
effects this financial policy will have on THA's forecast cash flow,
including an estimate of the revenue THA will be providing to the Treasury.
From 1990/91 onwards, this is estimated to be in excess of US$25 million
per annum.
Status of Grants Relating to the Onsoin Port Prolect
3.        The ongoing Port Rehabilitation Project was partly funded by an
IDA Credit (Credit No.1536) of 26.2 million SDRs. This Credit is the
subject of a subsidiary loan agreement under which THA has contracted to
repay to the Tanzanian Government the full amount of the loan plus interest
at llZ per annum. The principal amotmt will be repaid in forty equal semi-
annual installments, starting on 1518/19vo and finishing on 15/2/2010.
4.        Donor grants for the project totalled US$141.3 million, of which
US$107.3 million represented investment in fixed assets.  The fixed asset
element of the grants will be repaid to the Government semi-annually over
twenty years (starting on 30/9/90), at an interest rate of 11Z p.a.
Effectively, therefore, as with the IDA Credit, THA will be given a five



Annex 5-6
Page 2 of 5
year grace period, followed by twenty years of principal repayments plus
interest. Unlike the IDA CreAit, the principal repayments will be on a
steadily rising scale so that the total payments of interest plus principal
are enuated across the twenty years (i.e. at the Tanzanian shilling
equivalent of US$13.5 million each year). The remaining grants of US$34.0
million will be classified as equity.
IDA Credit and Grants Relating to the Port Modernization Protect II
5.        The proposed Port Modernization Project II is forecast to
include an IDA Credit of US$37 million equivalent (of which US$35 million
relates directly to THA) and donor grants totalling the equivalent of about
US$44 million. The full amount of each will be on-lent to THA on the
following terms: five year grace period, followed by a fifteen year period
in which principal is repaid semi-annually and interest charged at 11 per
annum. Again, principal repayments would gradually rise so that the total
payments each year are equal (i.e. about US$11 million equivalent for the
IDA Credit and grants combined). The first repayment date would be
30/911995 and the last would be 31/3/2010.
Financial Structure
6.        In order to operate on a sound commercial footing and service
its debts consistently, THA will not allow its debt-to-equity ratio to rise
above 60:40. In other words, long-term debt will not represent more than
602 of total long-term liabilities plus equity. The draft balance sheet
for 30/6/88 indicates a debt-to-equity ratio of 73:27. However, assuming
that the revaluation of THA's fixed asset base leads to an increase of
US$112 million in its book value (as forecast), that all grants under the
ongoing project are classified as either debt (US$107.3m) or as equity
(US$34.0m), that the proposed project goes ahead and that the policy
proposals described herein are implemented, then the debt-to-equity ratio
will fall to 57:43, just within the acceptable range. THA's future capital
investment programme and dividend policy will be designed in such a way
that its balance sheet does not become over-levered again. Maintenance of
the 60s40 debt-to-equity ratio will be a project covenant.
Div'-end Policy
7.        Aay dividends which THA pays to the '.'reasury will be decided
according to established principles, i.e. on each separate occasion they
will be voted upon and passed by THA's Board of Directors. However, this
does not prevent THA from having an indicative dividend policy which
establishes guidelines for each year's dividend decision.
S.        These guidelines will be as follows.  Each year's dividend will
be equal to 50? of its profit after taxes and extraordinary items as long
as the following two conditions are mett first, that this would not
incirease THA's debt-to-equity ratio above 60:40; and second, that the
dividend paid is no more than half the cash available for investments minus
the capital investments made in that year. The first condition will
safeguard THA's financial structure and the second will ensure that funds



Annex 5-6
Page 3 of 5
are available for future years' investments in the port's physical asset
base.
Productivity Incentive Schem
9.        In order to handle the rapidly increasing traffic over the next
few years, THA has to make more efficient use of its existing assets. It
is vital, therefore, that productivity is improved throughout the
organization.
10.       To this end, a well-funded but rigorously administered
productivity incentive scheme will be set up. The incentives will be cash
bonuses. The total amount awarded each year vill be decided by a committee
comprising members of TEA's Board and senior management. Once this amount
is set, the General Manager will decide how much each department receives
based on their overall performance during the year. In turn, each Director
will decide how best to distribute the bonuses within his department. For
some staff there will be readily quantifiable performance targets, for
others a more judgmental approach will be adopted. Stevedores, for
instance, will be paid on a frequent basis depending on their work-rate;
administrative and headquarters staff will be paid once a year. Skills
allowances may or may not be included, depending on each Director's wishes.
The total amount of bonuses will vary from year to year according to THA's
operating results, and each year some departments will receive considerably
more than others depending on performance. It is also important that
people within the same department are given significantly different awards
according to their individual productivity levels.
11.       In a successful year, total bonuses are envisaged to be as high
as TEA's current expenditure on salaries, casual labour, third shift,
overtime and meal allowances combined. Based on the budget for the 1989/90
fiscal year, this would be roughly equivalent to US$9.2 million. THA has
the financial capacity to institute this scheme, as well as the
administrative base. The yearly evaluation process, conducted at budget
time, has the form if not the substance (i.e. real incentives) to act as a
genuine motivating device.
12.       Before the incentive scheme becomes operational, an accurate
census of TEA's current workforce must be conducted and the committee which
will decide the total amount to be awarded each year must be constituted.
Investment in Higher Yielding Assets
13.       In real terms THA is losing about US$5-6 million per annum on
its short-term cash holdings in Tanzanian shillings. Instead of receiving
a negative real interest rate by investing in short-term bank deposits, THA
should invest in an asset with a positive real return. THA have considered
a number of alternative investment vehicles, including a new hotel, a
dockyard and warehouses. However, the most sensible investment appears to
be a new headquarters office building, since the commercial risk appears to
be small and the returns potentially high.



Annex 5-6
Page 4 of 5
14.       Based on a report prepared by a property consultant, the
investment has the following attractions. First, there is a shortage of
office space in Dar es Salaam. Second, non-Tanzanian organizations are
obliged to pay rent in convertible currency, so this would be a good source
of foreign exchange. Third, the two floors that THA would occupy would
allow some people in the port to move into the current office building,
thus relieving the severe shortage of office space in the port.  Fourth,
the foreign exchange component of the investment can, it seems, be financed
externally, secured on the expected rental income in the first few years.
This means that THA would be receiving foreign exchange returns from the
fifth year onward (second year after completion) without making any foreign
exchange investment. Finally, the expected return, as prepared by the
consultant, looks very attractive. However, before going ahead with this
proposal, THA must make an independent assessment of the consultant's
analysis, with particular emphasis on the market risk and the availability
of external financiag for the foreign exchange portion.
Tariff Changes
15.       The tariff changes which became effective in May and July 1989
should together bring about a 8Z increase in THA's revenue. However, the
tariff structure can and should be used more aggressively to achieve the
following two purposes. First, the revenue derived from each port activity
should at least cover the fully-loaded cost of providing that service.
Fully-loaded costs include allocated overhead and interest payments (which
will be considerably higher under the proposed financial strategy).
16.       Second, the tariff structure should be used as a means to alter
the behaviour of port users. If the dwell time of import containers, for
instance, could be reduced by stringent storage penalties for long-staying
containers, then the terminal's effective capacity would rise and in the
medium term so would THA's revenues. The decision to charge wharfage on
export containers on a 'per box' basis rather than an 'ad valorem' basis
will help to reduce the average dwell time of export containers. This 'per
boxw basis should also be used for wharfage on import containers (both
transit and local). Furthermore, the charge for storing loaded as well as
empty containers should rise the longer the container stays in the port;
and the absolute level of storage charges for stripped cargo at Ubungo ICD
should be increased from 24 shillings per ton per day to something like 100
shillings per ton per day to discourage unnecessary change of container
status from House-to-House to Port-to-Port.
Effect of These ProDosals on THA's Cash Flow
17.       The attached table A shows the effect of some of these proposals
on THA's cash flow. The 'base case' assumes a one-off increase in revenues
of 81 due to the 1989 tariff changes and a further 52 increase in 1992 due
to a second tariff adjustment (other tariff changes are assumed to have a
neutral short-term effect on total revenue). There will also be a steady
increase in revenues commensurate with traffic growth. Until 1993-94,
operating costs are assumed to rise by the amount needed to maintain and
operate the new equipment and infrastructure included in the proposed
project, and from 1994-95 they are assumed to grow at 31 per annum.



Annex 5-6
Page 5 of 5
Depreciation expense is assumed to increase due to the asset revaluation
process and the new investmen.;s under the project. However, in this
scenario, it is assumed that no interest payments or principal repayments
are made on existing grants, future grants or the proposed IDA Credit. In
this case, the cash available for investments steadily rises from about
US$15 million in 1989-90 to about US$40 million by 1996-97.
18.       The second scenario assumes that THA adopts the repayment
proposals outlined above. As a result, the cash available for investment
dips substantially in fiscal years 1990/91 and 1995196, corresponding to
the years in which the two grace periods end.
19.       The third scenario includes the incentive scheme as well.  It
assumes that the full US$9.2 million is utilized each year from 1989/90
onwards, although the tax effect halves the effective cost of the scheme
for THA. In this scenario, cash flow is fairly tight in fiscal year
1990/91 and a conservative dividend at the end of 1989/90 would be
advisable. However, by 1992/93, THA's cash flow will have risen above
US$15 million again.
20.       Investment in a new building has not been included in this
analysis due to the uncertainties involved. However, the cash requirements
(assuming the foreign exchange component is externally financed) would be
about US$2 million p.a. for four to five years, followed by net inflows
once rental payments come on stream. This would leave THA just US$6-7
million for capital investments in 1990-91, which should be sufficient
given the capital investments envisaged under the proposed project.
21.       In conclusion, THA has the financial capacity to adopt these
proposals, though not without care. The development study will be
Indicating a need for substantial capital investment from 1993 onwards. By
this stage, THA's forecast net cash flow will be back above US$15 million
p.a., high enough to fund a large capital investment programme, but low
enough to ensure financial discipline.
Benefits to the Treasury
22.       As the final section of the table depicts, TEA will be
contributirg a substantial amount of the Treasury's receipts by the mid-
1990's. The figures shown here refer to the tax payments THA will make
(assuming a 502 rate), as well as the interest payments and principal
repayments on credits and grants on-lent to THA. Dividend payments ara not
included, although they are likely to make an important contribution to the
total. In addition to the high absolute amounts, the Treasury has the
benefit of having a predictable and reliable source of income.



ANNEX 6-8
Table A
CASH FLOW EFFECTS OF NEm FINANCIAL POLICY
(Constant 1989 US2 Mlillon)
Year EtdWing 89/8    100      19906    101    1992    1998    1994    1006          1996    1997
OPERATING REVENUES   67.6    6S.2    69.1       7.6    82.9    60.1    04.0   100.8   107.6
OPEERATING COSTS     22.0    22.0    22.7    28.7    24.6    24.6    25.3    26.1    26.9
INTEREST CHARGES      1.6      0.8      4.6      4.1      8.6      8.5      3.2     8.0      2.8
DEPRECIATION          6.9      4.7      7.0      0.       8.9      9.0      9.06     9.0     9.0
OPERATING SPWUS
BEFORE TAXES         88.1    87.7    85.1    41.8    45.6    51.0    66.6    62.2    66.8
TAXES                16.6    16.9    17.6    20.7    22.6    25.6    28.8    81.1    84.2
OPERATINQ SURPLUS
AFTER TAXES          16.5    18.9    17.6    20.7    22.8    26.5    28.8    31.1    84.2
CASH FLOW FROM
OPERATIONS           17.6    28.6    24.6    29.2    81.7    84.5    87.8    46.1    48.2
PRINCIPAL REPAID      2.4      2.8      8.9      8.1      8.2      8.8      2.4      2.4     2.4
CASH AVAILABLE
FOR INVESTMENTS      16.1    21.8    20.7    26.1    26.5    81.2    84.9    87.7    40.8
PLUS CHARGES ON GRANTS + IDA
INTEREST CHARGES      0.0      0.6    11.6    11.6    11.4    11.2    10.9    19.4    10.6
LESS TAX EFFECT       0.r      .6    (5.9)    (6.6)    (5.7)    (5.6)    (6-6)    (9-7)    (9.4)
PRINCIPAL REPAID      0.L"     6.0      1.7      1.9      2.1      2.8      2.5     5.1      5.6
NET CASH COST         0.0      0.0      7.6      7.7      7.8      7.9      6.0    14.8    16.0
CASH AVAILABLE
FOR INVESTMEJTS      16.1    21.8    18.1    16.4    20.7    28.8    28.9    22.9    25.8
PLUS INCENTIVE SCHEME:
ADD. LABOUR COST      0.0      9.2      9.2      9.2      9.2      9.2      9.2     9.2      9.2
LESS TAX EFFECT       o.6    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)    (4.6)
NET CASH COST         0.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6      4.6     4.6
CASH AVAILABLE
OR INVESTMENTS       15.1    16.6       8.4    18.6    16.1    18.7    22.2    18.8    21.1
J           PAYMENTS TO TREASURY:
INCOME TAXES         16.5    14.8       7.1    10.8    12.6    15.8    16.2    16.8    20.2
INTEREST PAYMENTS     6.2      6.1    16.7    15.2    14.8    14.4    14.0    22.2    21.5
PRINCIPAL REPAY.      0.8      6.8      4.1      8.5      8.7      8.0      4.2     6.7      7.2
TOTAL                17.6    15.1    26.6    29.0    81.0    88.6    U8.4    45.7    46.9
Not.: Do  not Include Invgetmeat In now office building.



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Implementation Schedule
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Al  Port Container Term                                               IDA
Kurasini Depot                                                   IDA
Ubungo Depot Paving      _                                       IDA
A.2  Copper Road                                                       IDAfTHA
A.3  Berth 9,10, 11 Imprv                                              DANNIDA
A.4  Lightrge Wharf Pvng                                               DUTCH
A.5  Belgian Wharf Rehab                                               NORAD
A.6  Port Central Wkshop            .                                  SIDA
A.7  Kurasini Oil Jetty                                                NORAD
B.1  Cargo Hndig Equipmnt     _          _                             IDA
B.2-3  Equip for Cntnr Term             _ _       _                     FINNIDA/DANIDA
B.4  Office Equipment                                                 IDA
6.5  Ctri Workshop Equip                                              IDA
c.1-7  Design & Supervision      _ _                                    IDA/DONORS
0.8  Port Devlpmnt Study                                               IDA
c.9  Workshop Study                                                    FINNIDA
D.1-3  Technical Assistance                    a    =                   IDA/DONORS



<      ~~~Chart 2
I m
*1 3



TANZANIA
PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT II
Organization Structure - Dar es Salaam Port
~~~MW
PUN=_UELATIMSJIQ4                                                      VDEOt AM.      Ml
rO4 RWC   IlT5 |l DEV_| .LAR  
r | 1 lOFUDMl                                                            am            10|
DI ATISTI   "                                                                MINIMR*III S
ASSMAur~~~~~ ~~              ~ FM                                 -------- PM            ---
Tg6rADinIIIaLAltI Im u                1I                                1 'II                            mu IFCE  I
WiTA        . . MYI~~F                         ii T               I.           -. FI          n. 1
IUULM   M1 A0 MAX    1            1                                                  FM1?OW      M.1      11lv
1W_     1      luWl1  O WL          L    10                                       11 OFF.        kV=
M  * o. -  1L I



MAP SECTION
I



IBRD 21936
K E NYA                         I~~~~~~~~ENA
SHINYANG                                             ARUSIIA  ToU.Ro TaL>wa ;                    MotIndi4d 4          MZl
ARUSHA
>~~~~KGOAUnuLL TANZAIA
,  t   __PORT  MODERNIZATION
PROJECT II
A                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT  LOCATtON
ISLAND
j'4    PROJECT PORT
- rrUMEN SLUNK ROADS
l  \  0t    X    TABORA- -AILROADS
Dokooa  RO~~~~~OW ~            PORATSJA  RA
< X        s    s >; ~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~SIN                              e                                             slena
4. AIRORTS
R U K W A                                                                       D A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R LSS l M   -      AKE   S EOVICES  PFRRSIRS
M,no~ .4~RASAAM     SOLCCTED TOWNS
R* EGION HKUAIE
Z  'X A I R                                                       IRI                                                                           NATIONAL CANAL
0                     R~~~~~~~~ESG1ON BOUNDARIES
-V  'WMSA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTIERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
z A M B a A                      \ h(JLUd                S            ~zBEYA                             MA- 
0 5 O   1  LO 40  40 00100  MILES        \          t t (  )L;8~             RUVUMA          T      +      $        @              9                  -.  ,.
Ht . .                                  j           A    wES >                                            f                       g        ,. _..j
'Lc oe,/gr _Z A M                                                B I AO                                                 BQ UE
NOVEMOER 1%90



IBRD 21937
,9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KRSN                                                                   ARTNZAIAANXI
~~  Z                                        Off,c,oI  No~~~~~.,g BTsbfcoIN.
-1.    --I                              T.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
X   ----  -                  .                    ~~~~~~~PORT MODERNIZATION PROJECT 11                             I     _/, 
-- ~TIPER OIL REFINERY                   !EXISTING AND PROPOSED  DEVELOPMdENT/, 
KEYAf              I    \  
ZAR           dI   (                                                              , ALROA I MEYERGAUGE:
h A S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ihe W90                                                              z
~~~~~~CROfl  StiNg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kl v  o 
C'   -   S.                                                                                           East Fotry Pt         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 78  h  
T UtU,.'  '                            ________ _________ _______9_
* IIMCJDAAARIOII~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
ZAMRIA ~~~~~~~,. ~~~~                                    ME~~TE   NZANI
KENYA  I  %~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME 



