Page  1
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2095 TA
             Development Credit Agreement
            (Port Modernization Project II)
                        between
              UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   Dated May 7, 1990
                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2095 TA
             DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1990, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as
to the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of
Denmark through the Danish International Development
Agency (DANIDA) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $4.2 million (the DANIDA Grant) to assist
in financing part of the Project;
     (C)  the Borrower has requested from the Republic of
Finland through the Finnish International Development
Agency (FINNIDA) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $17.9 million (the FINNIDA Grant) to assist
in financing part of the Project;
     (D)  the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of
Netherlands (the Netherlands) a grant in an amount
approximately equivalent to $5.4 million (the Netherlands
Grant) to assist Financing part of the Project;
     (E)  the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of
Norway through the Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperation (NORAD) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $11.5 million (the NORAD Grant) to assist
in financing part of the Project;
Page  2
     (F)  the Borrower has requested from the Kingdom of
Sweden through the Swedish International Development
Authority (SIDA) a grant in an amount approximately
equivalent to $17.5 million (the SIDA Grant) to assist in
financing part of the Project;
     (G)  the Project will be carried out by the Tanzania
Harbours Authority with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the Tanzania Harbours Authority the proceeds of the
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis,
inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association the Tanzania Harbours
Authority;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and
in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and Tanzania Harbours Authority of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and THA pursuant
to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "THA" means the Tanzania Harbours Authority, a
statutory corporation, established pursuant to the
Tanzania Harbours Authority Act No. 12 of 1977;
     (e)  "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit
established in THA under the Port Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1536-TA) and to be maintained under the Project;
and
     (f)  "THA Incentive Scheme" means the productivity
based incentive scheme to be introduced under the Project
by THA, for the payment of bonuses to its staff.
                      ARTICLE II
                      The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
Page  3
referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,900,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and maintain in dollars two special
accounts in its Central Bank, the THA Special Account and
the Customs Department Special Account, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30,
1997, or such later date as the Association shall
establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate
to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from
the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the
accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit
Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at
such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a service charge at the rate of three-fourths
of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in
each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 1 and December 1 commencing June 1, 2000, and ending
December 1, 2029. Each installment to and including the
installment: payable on December 1, 2009, shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
Page  4
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national
product: per capita, as determined by the Association,
shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider
the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not: change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association
determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                      ARTICLE III
               Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without
any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under this Agreement, shall: (i) carry out
Part D.5 through its Customs Department and Board of
External Trade; and (ii) cause THA to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of THA therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the
provisions of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable THA to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to
be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the
Credit for Parts A, B, C and D.1 through 4 to THA under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and THA, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association which shall
provide, inter alia, that: (i) the proceeds of the Credit
shall be relent at an interest rate of eleven percent
(11%) per annum, for a term of twenty years, including a
grace period of five years; and (ii) THA shall bear the
risk resulting from fluctuations in the value of the
currencies relent to it.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
Page  5
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association
hereby agree that the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by THA
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                      ARTICLE IV
                  Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part
D.5 of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out Part D.5 of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to
               in paragraph (a) of this Section
               including those for the Special Accounts
               for each fiscal year audited, in
               accordance with appropriate auditing
               principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
          (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
               available, but in any case not later than
               six months after the end of each such
               year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Association such
               other information concerning said
               records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall
               from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in
               accordance with paragraph (a) of this
               Section, records and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
               Association has received the audit for
Page  6
               the fiscal year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Credit Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts and other
               documents) evidencing such expenditures;
         (iii) enable the Association's
               representatives to examine such
               records; and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
               included in the annual audit referred to
               in paragraph (b) of this Section and that
               the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether the statements of expenditure
               submitted during such fiscal year,
               together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation,
               can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                       ARTICLE V
              Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  THA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after
the date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that THA
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
     (c)  The Tanzania Harbours Authority Act No. 12 of
1977 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of THA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of THA or for the
suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this
               paragraph, the right of the Borrower to
               withdraw the proceeds of the DANIDA,
               FINNIDA, Netherlands, NORAD or SIDA
               Grants made to the Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been
               suspended, cancelled or terminated in
               whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
               of the agreement providing therefor,
          (ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall
               not apply if the Borrower establishes to
               the satisfaction of the Association that:
               (A) such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or prematuring is not caused
               by the failure of the Borrower to perform
               any of its obligations under such
               agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
               Project are available to the Borrower
               from other sources on terms and
               conditions consistent with the
               obligations of the Borrower under this
Page  7
               Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                      ARTICLE VI
              Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and THA;
     (b)  THA has carried out a thorough census of its
workforce; and
     (c)  THA has furnished to the Association, the
report and recommendations of its study on the
operational guidelines for the THA Incentive Scheme.
     Section 6.02. The following are specified as
additional matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02
(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by THA, and is legally binding
upon THA in accordance with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and THA and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and THA in
accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                      ARTICLE VII
       Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the
time responsible for Finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 9111
          Dar es Salaam
          United Republic of Tanzania
          Cable address:                Telex:
Page  8
               TREASURY                 41329
               Dar es Salaam
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INDEVAS                  440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA) or
                                         64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
               By /s/
                              Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By
                                Regional Vice President
                                                 Africa
                      SCHEDULE 1
       Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                     Credit Allocated      % of
                       (Expressed in   Expenditures
   Category           SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1)    Civil Works     11,000,000       100% of foreign
                                        expenditures
(2)    Equipment,       5,390,000       100% of Foreign
   except for                           expenditures
   Part D.5 of
   the Project
(3)    Consultants'     5,470,000       100% of foreign
   services                             expenditures
   and training
   except for
   Part D.5
   of the
   Project
Page  9
(4)    Consultants'     1,260,000       100%
   services and
   training for
   Part D.5 of
   the Project
(5)    Equipment for      320,000       100%
   Part D.5 of
   the Project
(6)    Unallocated      5,460,000
   TOTAL               28,900,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                      SCHEDULE 2
              Description of the Project
   The objectives of the Project are to: (i) expand the
physical, managerial and operational capabilities of THA
to meet the traffic volume expected in the 1990s; (ii)
provide a more reliable and cost effective transport link
with neighboring landlocked countries; and (iii) improve
the profitability and commercial discipline of port
operations.
   The Project consists of the following parts, subject
to such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the
Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve
such objectives:
Part A:  Civil Works
1. Expansion of the storage capacity for containers at
the Port Container Terminal and completion of the inland
depots at Kurasiri and Ubungo.
2. Construction of a port access road from the port to
the inland terminals of Kurasini, ZAMCARGO and the Malawi
Cargo Center.
3. Rehabilitation of the corroded and damaged concrete
piles on berths 9, 10 and 11 and the installation of an
improved fender system.
14.   Paving of the Lighterage Wharf for the additional
storage of empty containers and dry break-bulk cargo.
5. Rehabilitation of the piles and fender system at the
Belgian Wharf.
6. Rehabilitation of existing structures at the Central
Workshop.
7. Upgrading of the Kurasini Oil Jetty to enable it to
accommodate larger oil tankers.
8. Second phase rehabilitation of Berths 1 through 8 of
the General Cargo Terminal.
Part B:  Equipment
Page  10
   Acquisition of general cargo handling, equipment
including forklift trucks and mobile cranes.
2. Acquisition of container handling equipment including
rubber tired gantries. tractors, trailers and forklift
trucks.
3. Acquisition of one additional ship-to-shore gantry
crane to
increase container berth capacity.
4. Acquisition of computers and copying, telex and
facsimile machines by THA.
5. Acquisition and installation of equipment and tools
for the Central Workshop.
Part C:  Construction Design, Supervision and Studies
1. Design and supervision of construction activities
under Part A of the Project.
2. Carrying out a Port Development Study to determine
the various options available for the future expansion of
capacity at the Port of Dar es Salaam.
3. Carrying out a study to determine the design and
operation of the Central Workshop.
Part D:  Institutional Development
1. Training and institutional support for PCU staff.
2. Training and institutional support for THA's middle
and upper management staff.
3. Training and institutional support for the
maintenance of cargo handling equipment.
4. Development of a Management Information System for
THA.
5. (a)   Training and institutional support: for Customs
Department officials in improving and streamlining
customs regulations and procedures including the use of
computers.
   (b)   Training and institutional support for the
Board of External Trade in improving trade documentation
and procedures.
   (c)   Acquisition of computer and other equipment for
above activities.
                     *   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1996.
                      SCHEDULE 3
                   Special Accounts
1. For the purposes of this Schedule:
   (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (3) (for the THA Special Account) and
Categories (4) and (5) for the Customs Department Special
Account set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
Page  11
   (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and
   (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an
amount: equivalent to $1,500,000 for the THA Special
Account and $400,000 for the Customs Department Special
Account, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2. Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with
the provisions of this Schedule.
3. After the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have been
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts
shall be made as follows:
   (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request
or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the respective Special Accounts
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
   (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the respective
                Special Account, the Borrower shall
                furnish to the Association requests for
                deposits into that Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall
                specify.
        (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such
                request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
                of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment
                is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf
                of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                Account and deposit into the respective
                Special Accounts such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                have been shown by said documents and other
                evidence to have been paid out of the
                Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request:, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing
that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make
Page  12
deposits into the Special Accounts:
   (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by
the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
   (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories less the amount of
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not
justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request or (B) deposit into the Special
Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
   (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any
time that any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts
will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
   (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the
Association, refund to the Association all or any portion
of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
   (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
