Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/,00V  .3 / 49 3 - fdoA
3  / 49 C/     -Z e4                         Report No. 8431-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
APRIL 5, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Zloty (ZL)
(Average rates)
May   Dec.  Jan.
1986  1987  1988  1989  1989  1990
1 US$              175   265   430   850  4900  9500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                              US System
1 meter (m)                                3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              -            0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (kin)      -            0.3861 square mile (Mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)          =            0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                -           2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADT    -   Annual Average Daily Traffic
ABS     -   Automatic Block System
COCOM   -   Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
CTC     -   Centralized Traffic Control
GDDP    -   Directorate General of Public Roads
GNP     -   Gross National Product
LOT     -   Polish Airlines
MIS         Management Information System
MTME    -   Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
MY      -   Marshalling Yard
NBP     -   National Bank of Poland
OMIS        Operating Management Information System
PEKAES  -   International Road Freight Company
PKP     -   Polish State Railways
PKS     -   National Road Transport Enterprise
PMS     -   Pavement Management System
POL     -   Polish Ocean Lines
PSK         Polish Domestic Freight Forwarders
S & T   -   Signalling and Telecommunications
TM      -   Traffic Management
TMIS    -   Transport Management Information System
UIC     -   International Railway Union
ZNTKS   -   Enterprise for the Repair of Rolling Stock at Stargard
ZwUS    -   Signal Equipment Works
POLAND: FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL UE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pag-e No.
Loans and Project Summary ......................... i-iii
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.    The Transport System ........................    1
B.    The Sector in Context .......................    2
C.    Issues ......................................   4
II.   RAILWAYS AND HIGHWAYS
A.    Railways ....................................    5
B.  Highways ............                                11
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Objectives ....................                    14
B.  Description ............                             15
C.  Engineering ............                             23
D.    Cost Estimates ............                .....  23
E.  Financing ............                               24
F.    The Loans, the Borrowers and the Beneficiaries. 25
G.    Implementation ............                        25
H.  Procurement ............                             26
I.  Disbursement ............                            29
J.    Reporting and Audit ............                   29
K.    Environmental Impacts ............                 30
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General .32
B   Project Costs and Benefits .32
C.  Economic Returns .32
D. Project Risks .34
This report was prepared mainly on the basis of an appraisal mission to
Poland in May 1989 by Messrs. E. Vasur (Economist), K. Viswanathan (Railway
Engineer), W. Hayden (Financial Analyst), and J. Lane (Highway Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclose without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Introduction .......... 35
B.   Accounting ........ ............................... 35
C.   Tariffs, Subsidies and Transfer Prices ......... 36
D.   Past Financial Performance ........            38
E.   Forecast Financial Performance ........        40
VI.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..      47
ANNEES
1   Management and Performance of ZWUS .................... 48
2   Management and Performance of ZNTKS ................... 52
3   Reorganization of PKP Workshop for Increased
Specialization and Higher Productivity .............. 56
4   Equipment to be Procured under the Project
A. PKP Works.ops Equipment ........................... 60
B. Track Maintenance Machines to be Financed
Under the Project ............................... 61
C. Machines and Equipment to be Procured for
ZNTKS/Stargard .................................. 62
D. List of Machines and Equipment for ZWUS ........... 63
E. Equipment and Services for GDDP ................... 66
5   MIS, Terms of Reference ............................... 67
6   Lorg-term Locomotive Design and Maintenance Practices
Terms of Reference .................................. 73
7   Rationalization of Train Formation and Dispatching
Terms of Reference .................................. 75
8   Know-How Transfer to ZWUS and ZNTKS ................... 77
9   PKP Operating and Financial Targets ................... 81
10  Project Coordination and Monitoring .82
11  Study of PKP Passenger Subsidies Draft Terms
of Reference .84
12  PKP Income Accounts, Cash Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets .87
13  ZWUS Income Accounts, Cash Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets .90
14  ZNTKS Income Accounts, Cash Flow Statements and
Balance Sheets .93
15  Documents Available in the Project File .96



- iii -
SUPPORTING TABLES (cont.)                                 Page -No,.
Table 1:    Freight Transport According to Mode
of Transport ............     ,.,. 98
Table 2:    Passenger Traffic by Public Transport .99
Table 3:    Number of Notor Vehicles .100
Table 4:    Freight Transport by the Polish State Railways.101
Table 5:    Length of Public Roads (excluding urban) .      102
Table 6:    Length of Public Roads in Poland in 1987 .      103
Table 7:    Excerpts of Vehicle and Traffic Regulations  104
Table 8:    Annual Average Daily Traffic on E-Roads
in 1985 .105
Table 9:    General Directorate of Public Roads
Expenditure 1986-88 .106
Table 10:   Project Costs, Detailed and Summary .107
Table 11:   Project Implementation Schedule .109
Table 12:   Estimated Disbursements ........................ 110
CHARTS
1         Organization CErt of PKP .ll
2         Organization Chart of GDDP .112
IBRD 20327R-POLAND



POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans and Proiect Summary
Borrowers:              Republic of Poland and Polish State Railways (PK'P)
Beneficiaries:          The beneficiaries of the Loan to the Republic wculd be
the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME)
and the General Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP).
Part of the loan to PKP would be allocated to Signal
Equipment Works (ZWUS), and to Enterprise for the
Repair of Rolling Stock at Stazgard (ZNTKS).
Amounts:                A total of US$153 million equivalent with $8 million
equivalent for the Republic of Poland and $145 million
equivalent for the Polish State Railways.
Terms:                  17 years, including 5 years of grace, at Bank standard
variable interevt rate.
Allocation Terms:       US$20.00 million and US$7.75 million equivalent would
be allocated to ZWUS and ZNTKS respectively for a
period of 10 years including 3 years of grace, at DM
LIBOR plus 2X. The allocations would be made in DM
with PKP bearing the cross-currency risk between the
DM and the Bank pool of currencies.
Prolect Objective:      The project's objectives are to:  (i) support the
government's efforts to restructure the transport
sector, eliminating rigidities, central commands,
excessively engineering-oriented and capital-intensive
solutions and introducing instead towards modern
organizational forms and management strategies that
would be more responsive to the market-based economy
currently being developed in Poland; (ii) introduce
more efficient internal management systems and
maintenance procedures as well as provide financing
for -he equipment necessary to support this; (iii)
train managers in modern management techniques; (iv)
increase competition in the transport sector; and (v)
improve the economic, financial and operating
performance of Polish State Railways.
Project DescriRtion:    The project comprises:  (i) repair and modernization
of equipment and facilities for railway rolling stock,
track maintenance and signalling and telecommuni-
cations; (ii) measurement and laboratory equipment for
maintenance and repair of the highway network; (iii)
technical assistance to introduce an improved



- ii -
management information system in PKP and to
investigate long-term strategic issues in the sector;
and (iv) training for senior managers of sector
institutions.
Benefits                The proposed project would help the Government to
and Risks:               implement improved institutional structures and
management techniques for the transport sector,
particularly for PKP and GDDP, as well as to establish
a monitorable program to improve efficiency of railway
operations (financial, economic and technical). While
the main benefits will come in the long run through
the increased efficiency of the transport system as a
whole, such work at the sectoral level will also
complement and reinforce the Government's
macroeconomic management efforts by reducing subsidies
through a combination of improved operating
efficiency, closing down uneconomic lines and raising
tariffs, end ensuring that investment is allocated to
high return activities. Furthermore, the proposed
project would also support the high priority export
efforts which would be compromised if the
deterioration of the transport system is not arrested.
Finally it would assure that the investments respond
to environmental concerns.
Economic benefits from the project would come from:
(i) enhanced maintenance efficiency obtained through
the lowering of resource inputs resulting from the use
of more efficient machinery and equipment and
appropriate material inputs: (ii) improved operating
efficiency through heavier trains and lower turnaround
times, and, for the highways, lower road maintenance
and vehicle operating costs; (iii) saving from the
closure of uneconomic railway lines and stations.
Economic rates of return are estimated at generally
not lower than 9.0 for each loan.
A risk pertaining to the central objectives of the
project is the progress of the overall economic
reform. Since the changes in the transport sector are
dependent on this progress, any slowdown or reversal
would be reflected in the sector. The specific
investment projects in plant and equipment are however
not likely to be much affected by the macroeconomic
circumstances since they are justified under a wide
range of scenarios. On a different level, the main
risks are those inherent in any first project, i.e., a
relative unfamiliarity on both sides about each other
which introduces uncertainties about the
implementation of the recommended policies.



- iii -
Estimated Costs:
LQ£AI       Fore         TotaEl
---------US$ millions-
PKP, of which                  42.60        165.00       207.60
ZWUS                     (2.80)       (20.00)      (22.80)
ZNTKS                    (1.30)        (7.75)       (9.05)
GDDP                            0.26          3.20         3.46
MITME                           Q.6           4.80         5.#A
Total Cost         43.50       173.00       216.50
Financinf  Pla:
Lgcal       Foreign      Total
---------US$ millions--------
IBRD loans                        -         153.00       153.00
EIB loan                                     20.00        20.00
PKP, of which                  42.60           -          42.60
zwUS                     (2.80)          -          (2.80)
ZNTKS                    (1.30)          -          (1.30)
Government                      0.90           -           O.90
Total              43.50       173.00       216.50
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD FY    199  I92    1993   1994        1995   1996
-------------US$ millions-----------
Annual                   5.50 19.00  41.00   45.00   38.00   4.50
Cumulative               5.50 24.50  65.50  110.50  148.50 153.00
Economic Rate of Return:       About 25X for each loan.



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR'
A. The Transport System
'.01 Both in area and population Poland is among the larger countries of
Europe. Its area, 313,000 ka?, is roughly equal to that of Italy and its
population, 38 million, is about the same as that of Spain. The economy is
large and diversified, ranking among the 20 to 25 largest in the world in
terms of GNP, being of roughly the same size as Argentina or Finland. Its GNP
per capita of a little less than US$2,000 is somewhat below Hungary and
Yugoslavia.
1.02 Transport is an important sector. It directly employs close to one
million people, about 5% of the work force, contributes some 5% to GNP and
requires Government subsidies of about US$1.2 billion annually, which is 2% of
GNP. The physical installations are extensive, comprising about 27,000 km of
rail lines, 330,000 km of public roads, 3 large and several smaller ports, 11
airports for regular scheduled flights of which 3 are international and an oil
and gas pipeline network of about 2,000 km (see Map).
1.03 In Poland, as in most other socialist economies, railways constitute the
backbone of the transport system. They have a far greater role than in market
economies, especially for freight, accounting for about 70% of total traffic,
but also for passenger transport where the share is 30%. Polish State
Railways is a large organization even by international standards, employing
about 450,000 staff and transporting as much freight as the French and German
railways combined and as many passengers as either one of them.
1.04 The public road network comprises 336,000 km, of which about 289,000 are
rural, and 47,000 are urban. The national road network includes some 200 km
of motorways and 260 km of express roads, all with controlled access, and most
of which have dual carriageways; and 550 km with dual carriageways but
unrestricted access.
1.05 The maritime sector, including ports, generally functions well although
there are some investment needs in port equipment. The modern container
facility in Gdynia is not balanced by a corresponding level of service on the
land transport side, due to the insufficient adaptation of both rail and road
to operate container traffic.
1.06 Inland water transport, mainly on the Odra and Vistula rivers, plays a
limited role. Air transport, which is fairly extensively developed with
regular services by LOT, the national airline, to about 30 international and
11 domestic destinations, encounters problems with aircraft obsolescence and
the need to modernize semie ground facilities.
I      Chapters I and II are largely based on "Poland.  Transport Sector
Memorandum", Report No. 7701-POL, April 4, 1989.



- 2 -
1.07 Urban public transport is extensive but needs continuing large scale
investments to modernize deteriorating existing facilities and to cope with
increasing urban populations. During the 70's traffic grew fast. Between
1970 and 1980 freight and passenger traffic increased annually by 7 and 4%
respectively. Freight traffic later declined, while overall passenger traffic
has remained rather stable (Tables 1 and 2).
1.08 The number of private passenger cars has shown a strong increase; from
less than half a million in 1970 to more than 3.5 million in 1985 (Table 3).
From 1970 to 1980 there was a fivefold increase or 17% p.a. Although this has
slowed down in the 80's, it has by no means stopped, the 1980 to 1985 increase
being above 9% p.a. Even so, the number of vehicles per person is still only
about a third of what it is in Western Europe and also generally below the
levels of other East European countries.
B. The Sector in Context
1.09 The basic issues and problems that affect the transport sector are
intractably l.inked to the functioning of the ecornomic system at large. The
shortages which mark the economy are evident and cause difficulties for tte
transport enterprises as e.g. shortages of manpower, machinery, materials,
investment resources, imported goods. The relative unimportance of pricing,
the very pronounced vertical integration of enterprises, the high degree of
centralization and the general lack of competition are economy-wide
characteristics which have direct reflections in the organization and
functioning of the transport sector.
1.10 A striking feature of many enterprises in the transport sector is their
sheer size. PKP, Polish State Railways, has close to 450,000 staff, PKS, the
National Road Transport Enterprise, operates about 20,000 trucks and an equal
number of buses, GDDP, the General Directorate of Public Roads, employs 80.000
people, etc. A characteristic common in the Polish economy, which contributes
to the size of the enterprises, is their high degree of vertical integration.
Not only do they provide the primary services for which they were set up and
the normal ancillary activities such as maintenance and repair, but they also
have their own employee housing, hospitals, vacatik.. resorts, construction
companies, etc. This integracion of a whole spectrum of activities is in no
way particular to the transport sector but is found in all sectors of the
economy.
1.11 As in most other branches of the Polish economy, also in transport the
public sector dominates heavily. In fact, the only noteworthy exceptions to
public sector ownership and operation are passenger cars, of which 98% are
privately owned, and a small part of the truck fleet. Within the public
sector there are basically four different arrangements. Most directly linked
to government are those activities which operate as ministerial departments,
such as GDDP. Another strong but less direct influence is exercised through
government owned enterprises, as for PKP, PKS and LOT. There are, primarily
in road transport, cooperative arrangements which group enterprises of the
same industry to perform transport for its members. Finally there is a
substantial amount of own account road transport.



- 3 -
1.12 In 1987 a major reorganization took place in the Ministry of Transport.
Its aim was to consolidate the responsibility for all modes of transport under
one ministry, the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTME), while at
the same time limiting the ministry's involvement with regard to the
enterprises under its purview to major policy issues and to monitoring their
performance. Reporting to the MTME are a dozen enterprises covering rail,
road, water and air transport, about 100 municipal transport enterprises, the
GDDP and a shipbuilding company. These enterprises have a combined staff of
about 1,000,000. MTME has a staff of about 400 and its current functions
include: (a) advising the Government on transport policy; (b) allocation of
central government investment funds; (c) supervision of public sector
transport companies; and (d) establishment of safety regulations. The
ministry is also responsible for approving tariff ceilings for private
transport companies and tariffs for state owned domestic transport companies
and the payment of subsidies for passenger operations. It has an economics
department which advises on investments, tariff setting, organizational
questions as well as on general policy issues. There is also a freestanding
Reseas^h Institute of Transport Economics.
1.13 The centrally planned investments in the sector for 1988 and 1989 are as
shown in Table 1.1 below.
Table 1.1: TransRort Sector Investments
ZL billion 1988 (million US$):'
1988             1989
Railways                       197   (438)        225   (500)
Road Transport                  58   (129)         82   (182)
Ports and Maritime Transport   98   (218)         110   (244)
Air Transport                   20   ( 44)         31   ( 69)
Urban Transport                 19   ( 42)         22   ( 49)
Public Roads                    26   ( 58)         26   ( 58)
Total                          418   (931)        495   (1100)
A/  The US$ equivalents are given for illustrative purposes only.  They are
based on the second half 1988 official exchange rate of US$1-ZL450.
Although there are investments which fall outside the centrally planned area
and which are either locally decided (some municipal roads) or wihich have
special budgets, the above table nevertheless gives the order of magnL.ude.
There is scarcity of investment resources. Railway investments in Western
Europe for lesser networks are 3-5 times higher and the situation for public
roads is even worse. This is a continuation of a situation which has
prevailed over the last 10 years and which has led to severe problems in the
sector. While the distribution of investments reflect the present relative
importance and urgency of action between the subsectors, shifts are likely to
take place in the future. With an increasing reliance on markets and a



freeing up of the economy in general, road transport will gain in relative
importance which will have to be reflected in the investments.
1.14 The financial results of transport sector companies are satisfactory,
when compared to Western Europe. However, to achieve these results for
companies providing passenger service, substantial Government subsidies were
required, about 324 billion ZL (US$1.22 billion) in 1987 which includes
subsidies for operations, investments and tax rebates (Table 1.2). The
subsidies all pertain to passenger transport with freight transport being
financially self-supporting. To decrease the transport subsidies is an
objective of the economic reform.
Table 1.2: Summary of Subsidies 1987
ZL Billion (US$ million)'I
pRerating      Investment    Tax Rebate   Total
PKP                       101.0 (381)    27.0 (105)   18.2 (69)  146.2 (555)
PKS                       46.1 (174)      4.8 ( 18)    6.2 (23)   57.1 (215)
Municipal:
-Central Gov't           80R1 (302)    28.5 (108)                108.6 (410)
-Municipal Gov't         -              11.3 ( 43)    -           11.3 ( 43)
Total                     227.2 (857)    71.6 (273)   24.4 ( 92) 323.2 (1223)
a/ Based on the mid 1987 official exchange rate of US$1-ZL265.
1.15 The degree to which these numbers reflect economic realities are, for
reasons inherent in the economic system, limited and uncertain. As both
passenger and freight companies operate in a monopoly or semi-monopoly market,
the setting of administrative prices and subsidies has a major effect on the
companies' financial results. The fact that, during the current economic
difficulties in Poland, all operating ertities earn a profit would indicate
that there is a softness in setting the transfer prices within the companies
and in setting the transport tariff levels in general.
C. Issues
1.16 The constraints that exist in the transport sector translate into
decreasing efficiency and capacity shortages. Most of them are not amanable
to quick solutions, but require long term actions and investments. They have
to do primarily with a general resource constraint, managerial and technical
obsolescence, and relative isolation from modern development. Unless actions
aiming at increased competition, realistic pricing, improved cost recovery and
reduction of financial transfers from Government, improved maintenance,



modernization of facilities, development of intermodal transports, closing of
uneconomic railway lines, reorganization of trucking, etc. are undertaken, the
transport sector will come to function with increasingly severe inefficiencies
which will impact also the export performance of Poland. Transport
constraints will appear which will drive up transport costs at an accelerating
rate. Conversely, judicious actions to improve the conditions of the sector
will bring important rewards. The sector is so large and has implications for
the whole economy that even small relative improvements translate into
substantial absolute savings. Every percentage improvement e.g. in locomotive
availability will eventually lead to a saving of approximately 50 locomotives.
Likewise when the own-account trucks will be made to operate on an efficiency
level of 60% of that of the for hire trucks (presently about 45%) this will
translate into almost 100,000 fewer trucks needed, etc.
1.17 For individual transport modes the railways present the clearest list of
issues. Apart from the overall question of their future role, whether they
can and should continue to carry such a high proportion of total traffic as
they do presently, there is a number of questions of immediate operational
significance. They concern various maintenance operations and their
organization, moderni7ation of information systems, uneconomic lines and the
development of more efficient bulk, especially coal, transport.
1.18 For road and road transport, the organization of trucking activities
must change away from an excessive amount of own-account transport and towards
the creation of a larger number of for-hire competing companies if greater
efficiency is to be reached. The introduction of modern techniques for road
maintenance planning is of high priority.
1.19 In the area of investment analysis and planning, economic/financial
studies are regularly carried out. To what degree they actually influence the
decision-making process is less clear. Given Poland's economic/financial
situation, rigorous economic/financial analyses and their influence on
decisions must be strengthened.
1.20 One question that has a special importance for foreign trade and which
concerns several transport subsectors is the development of modern multimodal
transport systems. These have developed unevenly in Poland but in order to be
able to provide adequate transport facilities to such important convertible
currency earning activities as transit and export traffic, these types of
transport should be developed faster than hitherto. If not, an important
element in the efforts tu increase exports will be lacking.
II. RAILWAYS AND HIGHWAYS
A. Railways
Background
2.01 PKP is a government owned enterprise under MTME and governed by the
Railways Act of April 27, 1989. It is headed by a Director General, assisted
by four deputies and with the network and most operatf-tial matters divided



- 6 -
into eight operational geographic regions.   Although PKP's central function
is railway transport, its activities go beyond that and embrace equipment
manufacturing, railway construction, etc. It is a large industrial
conglomerate with about 70 different companies under its umbrella. In
addition, its role and responsibilities to its employees in the social,
health, educational, housing, etc., spheres far exceed that of any present-day
western railway.
Management Structure
2.02 PKP was transformed in 1987 from a ministry department into a State
owned enterprise with a larger measure of autonomy and clearer lines of
responsibility. However, traditionally strong ties with Govenrment have
rendered the de facto change in management style somewhat slow.
Organizationally, PKP follows standard railway practice with four Deputy
General Directors for: (i) economic and social affairs; (ii) operations; (iil)
rolling stock and (iv) fixed installations. Also reporting directly to the
President are the eight regional managers (Chart 1).  PKP can be considered to
consist of two major parts: (i) railway transport proper; and (ii) the
supporting manufacturing and construction units. Rail transport has 325,000
employees with an additional 125,000 staff in the affiliated units. PKP's
development plni is approved by MTME which is responsible for general
supervision of PKP.  In addition, MTME appoints the General Director who in
turn appoints the Deputy General Directors subject to the approval of the
Minister.
2.03  ZWUS, Signal Equipment Works, was incorporated as a unit of PKP under
Decree No. 72 of the Minister of Transport dated March 25, 1986. ZWUS
manufactures signalling and other safety related equipment. The management of
ZWUS is semi-autonomous within the PKP group and is responsible for developing
its production plans and the day-to-day operations of the enterprise within
the framework defined by the General Director of PKP.  ZNTKS, Enterprise for
the Repair of Rolling Stock at Stargard, manufactures track maintenance
equipment in addition to being a regular railway workshop. It was
incorporated as a unit of PKP under Decree No. 55 dated June 26, 1982 by the
Minister of Transport.  Its organization and relations with PKP are similar to
those of ZWUS. This type of vertical integration in large units is prevalent
in Poland. It is a reflection of and contributes to autarkic behavior and the
economic reform will eventually decrease the predominance of such
arrangements. However, this is likely to be achieved only over a longer
period of time and on an economy-wide basis. The project supports efforts of
greater autonomy of the subsidiary enterprises and their eventual spin-off.
In the meantime they have to function and care has to be taken that
inefficient structures are not reinforced. The mission analyzed PKP in this
context and found that: (i) manufacturing within PKP is efficient although the
efficiency is constrained by working with partly obsolete equipment; (ii) they
are competitive in Poland with foreign companies both in terms of quality and
price; and (iii) economies of scale generally argue against the existence of
more than one supplier within Poland of the railway-specific products being
manufactured by these enterprises. ZWUS and ZNTKS are further described in
Annexes 1 and 2 respectively.



7-
Traffic
2.04 PKP has both important freight and passenger traffic. It transports
more than 400 million tons of freight per year over an average distance of
almost 300 km which yields some 120 billion ton-km, more than any other
network in Europe, save the U.S.S.R. and about as much as Conrail in the USA
which carries a third of PKP freight but over an average distance three times
longer. Bulk products make up 70-80% of total with coal and coke accounting
for more than 40% of all the freight carried. Table 4 gives rail freight
transport development and commodity distribution.
2.05 PKP carries about one billion passengers annually of which some two
thirds are commuters to work and school. Rail passenger service has remained
rather constant since the 70's despite the sharp rise in private car
ownership. Also, despite some decrease of its relative role in the public
transport passenger market, rail still accounts for some 30% and 50% of number
of passengers and passengers-km respectively.
2.06 It is assumed that railway traffic will remain at present levels in the
medium term. This conforms to the broad trends observed in the 1980's for
both freight and passenger traffic. In the longer run it is likely that not
only will the railways market share decline, but also the absolute volume of
railway traffic as other modes, primarily road transport, develop.
Uneconomic Lines and Stations
2.07 Uneconomic lines and stations represent a problem and challenge for PKP.
As in other European railways, there is a legacy of once viable parts of the
network which over the years have lost their justification. However, the
problem in Poland is larger than in most other railways and the country can
ill afford not only the financial loss that this represents but also the
managerial and manpower resources that could be better used elsewhere in PKP.
The narrow gauge network of 2,500 km, which is as much as in the rest of
Europe combined, constitutes about 10% of the network but carries no more than
0.11 of the traffic (as expressed in ton km; 1.6% if expressed in tons) -i.e.,
a traffic density about a hundred times less than the average. About 1,500 km
have been identified in a study done by the Research Institute of Transport
Economics in Warsaw as lines that should be closed using various economic,
financial and operating criteria. To this should be added about 4,500 km of
the normal gauge network which hold no prospect for viable future operation
and should therefore be closed or abandoned. The estimates of the cost to
revenue ratio for these 6000 km of lines vary between 20 and 40 and the total
financial deficit is put in a range from ZL 15 to 40 billion (US$30 to 80
million) per year which supposedly takes into account the cost of providing
alternative measures of transport for the localities affected. Actions to
reduce the uneconomic lines and stations are included in the project (para.
3.18 (i)).
Track
2.08 The rail network comprises about 27,000 km of lines. More than 87% is



standard gauge (1453 mm) and about 10 is narrow gauge (600-1000 mm). Broad
gauge (1524 mm) is limited to the ore and sulphur line (Katowice area - USSR
border) and a few other short sections on the Soviet border. About 9500 km
(351) are electrified. The network is one of the most densely used networks
I.n the world with an average traffic density of about 5 million net tkm/km of
freight and 2 million passenger-km/km. On the electrified part of the
network, which carries 75X of the traffic, the average density is more than
twice higher, almost 15 million traffic units/km.
2.09 PKP's track shows signs of deterioration. There are 650 slow-speed
orders due to poor track conditions and 300 due to poor turnouts. This
deterioration is principally due to (i) unsatisfactory ballast conditions in
531 of the network, marked by inadequate quantity and quality as well as coal
dust pollution; (ii) lack of good elastic rail fastenings; and (iii) the use
of softwood sleepers. Two other contributing factors are the understaffing of
the track maintenance units, about 601 in some sections,and the dependance on
old low-output track maintenance machines. The latter is the consequence of
little or no major investments during the 80's and the lack of foreign
exchange for importing even emergency supplies. The present condition calls
for urgent remedial measures consisting of investments in track maintenance
machines, more intensive ballasting programs and the use of better rails and
fastenings. Actions aiming at this is included in the project (para. 3.07).
Locomotives and Wagons
2.10 PKP's locomotive fleet consists of 2600 electric locomotives which carry
about 751 of the gross tkms, 2700 diesels hauling about 22% of the traffic and
the rest handled by 500 steam locomotives. Out of the 12 types of diesels, 8
are below 1200 HP and are hence suitable only for branch line and switching
work. As the diesels are of minor significance in traffic handling and the
steam locos are being phased out, the main focus is on the electrics. The
availability of the electrics has steadily declined from 931 in the 70s to 90%
in the 80s which is low compared to the target level of 95%. The main reasons
for this decline are: (i) lack of spare parts; (ii) a fleet with a high
average age of over 16 years without having had the highgrade overhauls and
refurbishings adopted in other countries; (iii) maintenance workshops which
are a legacy from the steam age and whose layouts and equipment are unsuitable
for electrics; (iv) traction motor design poorly adapted to the ambient
conditions, - snow and coal dust; and (v) high failure rates occasioned by
low-grade insulating materials and lack of impregnating equipment in the
workshops. The problem is aggravated by a dispersion of the resources and
facilities over five workshops without much specialization. The presence of
8 different loco types compounds the spare parts and specialization issues.
Rolling stock maintenance faces similar problems.
The project addresses these problems through modernization and concentration
of workshops (para. 3.05).
2.11 The fleet of goods wagons has shown a continuous decrease and now
numbers 161,000, down by 24% from 1978, due in part to the obsolescence of
wagons but also reflecting the results of insufficient maintenance. Coal
wagons constitute more than half of the total. Maintenance suffers from
outdated equipment and practices often with little protection from weather.



On the passenger side there are about 6,000 passenger cars as well as 1,000
electric multiple unit (emu) cars and about 1,900 emu trailers, all in a
relatively satisfactory condition except the old ones which need to be
replaced. The rolling stock availability is proposed to be improved by
concentrating repairs and modernizing equipment (para. 3.05).
Signalling and Telecommunications (S&T)
2.12 Many of PKP's operating constraints stem from inefficient and inadequate
S & T equipment. Only 5.5X of its high density lines, with more than 70 pairs
of trains per day, are equipped with any form of automatic block signalling
(ABS). Only 171 of its level crossings, where over 30% of its accidents take
place, are signal protected. Marshalling yards handling up to 5000 wagons per
day are working with obsolete equipment. PKP's S & T investment plans are
rightly directed principally to its high density lines and only partially to
medium density lines and practically none to the low density lines. The
objectives of the investment plan are (i) raising operating efficiency through
improved utilization of locomotives and wagons, (ii) removal of bottlenecks by
installing ABS, (iii) easing the traffic flows near complex nodal points in
the network with CTC and computerized despatching and (iv) enhancing safety
through automatic train control on high density routes and protection of level
crossings with consequent savings in damages. Some of these investments will
result in significant staff savings, estimated at about 2200 staff per year,
during a 10 year program of S & T improvements. However, all these S & T
improvements are contingent upon a reliable supply of high quality equipment.
The project will provide the machines and equipment needed to upgrade the
production of the signalling manufacturing unit (para. 3.08).
Marshalling Yards (KY)
2.13 The geographic spread of PKP's network and the substantial dependence of
national transport on rail result in criss-crossing traffic streams. However,
the delays which wagons suffer in these yards due to outmoded marshalling
methods and equipment are forcing management to adopt more streamlined methods
of wagon control and routing. PKP's policy foresees a reduction of MYs to 27
active ones by 1995, down from 110 in 1970, out of which 17 of interregional
importance will be modernized and automated, and the remaining 10 (all located
in cormection to industrial plants), will be just improved without automation.
36 MYs will be phased out and redesigned as regional distribution centers with
a substantially reduced number of tracks and with better telecommunications.
In early 1989 PKP introduced a new organization for freight managetment which
improves the wagon movements so as to (i) reduce the transit time of goods
(ii) reduce shunting by heavy main line locomotives, and (iii) improve wagon
turn-round. In effect, this strategy will typically reduce the average number
of intervening KYs in each wagon transit from the present 4 to 3.2, thus
improving the turn round by about 10 to 15% over the present mean of 5.4 days.
However, there is scope to rationalize the traffic management and reduce the
need for marshalling further. Therefore, the automation of the 17 key yards
should be preceded by an in-depth study to see whether heavy investment can be
avoided through operating improvements and revised train formation strategies,
where modernization is essential, and to determine the degree of modernization
that is optimum for a given marshalling pattern. This study, supported by the



- 10 -
project, will address the central question of reducing the average wagon
detention time in the yards (para. 3.12(iii)).
R-rationLs
2.14 Operations are well decentralized under the responsibility of the eight
regional managements. The central control in Warsaw handles only the inter-
regional coordination and supervisory function. PKP's Traffic Management (TM)
is more preoccupied, however, with monitoring of yesterday's operations and
generally 'watching" today's operations than with "real time" and forward
management. Admittedly there is a lack of the means and the methods needed
for: (i) 'real time" TM train performance analyses; and (ii) network
simulator for assessing limiting line capacities, optimum re-routings and
least cost solutions for capacity enhancement. There is no network-wide wagon
control system as is known in the West. The initiative for reducing terminal
delays and yard detention is largely in the hands of regional managements
which are generally content to assume that present performance, reasonably
good as it is, cannot be bettered till the automation of marshalling yards and
more sophisticated S & T facilities are available. The study proposed under
the project will defir.e ways to obtain higher productivity through more
dynamic management and better supervision of the train dispatching procedures
and by setting up more stringent targets of efficiency enforced and supervised
by regional and central management (para. 3.12(iii).
Investments
2.15  PKP's five year investment program (1986-90) is distributed as follows:
1988
Billion ZL    Million US$"
Electrification                89          178
Marshalling yards              62          124
Maintenance workshops          73          146
Repair workshops               68          136
Signalling and telecom.        16          32
New lines                      43          86
Staff housing                  89          178
Rolling stock and equip        554         1108
Miscellaneous                  10          21_
Total                          1102        2204
a/  Based on the end 1988 exchange rate of US$1 - ZL503.
The gratifying feature of the investment plan is the emphasis on (i) operating
improvements to enhance productivity, and (ii) maintenance of track and
rolling stock and the allocation of over 201 of the resources to these two
objectives. Fifty percent of the investments are for the renewal of overaged



- 11 -
locomotives and rolling stock, which includes low-capacity, high risk two-axle
wagons.
2.16 While recognizing the need for utmost stringency in the review of
proposed investments, there is obviously a limit beyond which a railway the
size of PKP cannot reduce its investments without jeopardizing its operations.
PKP may already have reached this point as evidenced by the increasing
problems with track and rolling stock. Towards this end, it is proposed that
the Bank annually review the transport sector investment programs in order to
ensure that criteria for economic validity of projects are consistently
applied (para. 3.18(ii)).
B. Highways
Background
2.17 The administration of public roads is vested in MTME through the General
Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP), which supervises all public roads (except
those owned and financed by agricultural and other enterprises). The General
Directorate is divided into five Departments (Chart 2), each headed by a
Deputy Director. GDDP employs over 80,000 people, comprising some 3400
professionals, of which some 2600 engineers. Maintenance and construction is
carried out through 17 district and 194 sub-divisional offices.
The Road Network
2.18 Since World War II Poland has constructed some 80,000 km of roads, and
asphalt paved some 100,000 km. This upgrading picked up speed particularly in
the 1970's, but at the expense of maintenance. Currently maintenance and
rehabilitation are given greater emphasis, and new construction is being
limited to main road connections and urban by-passes. However, maintenance
and rehabilitation is now the major problem of the network. Because of
financial difficulties, little is being done and it is estimated that more
than 30,000 km of public roads and some 8,000 bridges need rehabilitation.
2.19 For these reasons the rapid upgrading of the network during the 1970's,
with the paved road network increasing by some 55X during the decade - from
76,000 km in 1970 to 118,000 km in 1980 - has slowed down in the 1980's (Table
5).   Road classification is shown in Table 6.
2.20 The extent and the density of the network is adequate, except for areas
in the eastern region, where some extension is desirable - essentially through
construction of more county roads to serve agriculture. The standard axle
load limit is 8 tons for single axles, but 10 tons is permitted on 24,000 km
of major roads. The axle load regulations are shown in Table 7. The 10 ton
limitation is the same as in Hungary, Romania and Yugoslavia, but is low by
West European standards where the trend is to increase the limit to 13 tons.
Pavement Management System (PMS)
2.21 The increasing demands placed on GDDP's maintenance service - rising
traffic volumes and axle loads, together with an ageing of the network and the



- 12 -
fact that maintenance and rehabilitation funds are not currently increasing,
means that the choice of correct maintenance strategy at both network and
project level has become of crucial importance. To this end GDDP has embarked
on the development of a PMS. GDDP and its associated agencies have most of
the necessary technical skills to do this. To date a visual/manual inspection
system for pavement condition has been developed and tested on 7% of the
national network, and now GDDP proposes to expand the system to include the
whole 45,000 km of the national network, and to include measurements of other
parameters, bearing capacity, roughness, etc., in the system. The project
includes equipment necessary to develop the PMS (para. 3.16).
Ouality Control
2.22 GDDP operates a chain of laboratories for quality control, mix design,
pavement design, etc., through its seventeen district, and sub-district
offices, asphalt plants, etc. These laboratories are well staffed, and do
routine work plus some research. Some laboratory equipment is available on
the Polish market, and some is imported. To improve productivity and speed up
quality control testing on construction sites, GDDP now requires additional
items of equipment not available locally. This is provided for under the
project (para. 3.17).
Traffic
2.23 The economic expansion of the 1970's was reflected in high traffic
increase. With the economic backlash, traffic declined, but then resumed the
increase - surpassing the 1980 AADT in 1985, and attaining an annual growth
rate of about 7% for the 1982-86 period. Table 8 gives the 1985 traffic
breakdown, in terms of AADT for all of Poland's main roads, which represent
about 10X of the total national network. The highest AADT, average for the
whole road length, amounted to 6550 vpd on road E-75, Gdansk-Lodz--Katowice-
Czech border. Together with the recorded 4700 on the parallel route Gdansk-
Warsaw-Krakow, this indicates the high traffic demand in this central north-
south corridor.   Some 12% of the main road network carries traffic less than
500 vpd. About 26% carries 500-1000 vpd, and 30% carries 1000-2000 vpd. Only
1% of the national network carries traffic above 10,000 vpd. In the
voivodships with large urbanized areas, i.e., Katowice, Warsaw and Lodz, over
30% of the roads had traffic volumes over 4000 vpd. About 1000 km of road
sections had traffic volumes such that speed and freedom to maneuver are
severely restricted which will eventually call for capacity upgrading.
Road Safety
2.24 The road safety situation is relatively serious in Poland; in 1986 about
4600 persons were killed on the roads. This represents a decrease in the
absolute number over the last few years, while at the same time there was a
slight increase in accidents and persons injured. The accident rate is
comparable to the rate prevailing in Europe, while the death rate is about
double.
2.25 The speed limits (Table 7) do not appear to be seriously observed. In
the mixed traffic, horse drawn carts and agricultural tractors with implements



- 13 -
represent a serious hazard, and the provision of alternative roads or paths
for these is urgently required on major roads. Highway police is not in
evidence and hazardous maneuvers are plentiful. A seat-belt law was
introduced in 1984. Part of the reason for the high fatality rate could be
the involvement of pedestrians - 30-40X of those killed are pedestrians, again
1.5-2 times higher than the prevailing figure in Western Europe. Another main
cause of accidents is hitting fixed obstacles, e.g. parapets, poles, trees,
etc. Drunk driving is stated to be a serious problem in Poland, in spite of
legislation which decrees that drunk driving (blood alcohol percent above
0.05) is a criminal offense. The engineering aspects of road safety are
addressed by Transprojekt, an autonomous bureau under MTME, who after
reviewing road sections whose accident rate is above a threshold, design a
program of measures-signs, markings, guardrails, etc. to reduce accidents
which is then executed by GDDP.
Road Financing
2.26 National roads are financed from the Government central budget.
Voivodships and the larger municipalities finance roads under their
jurisdictions from their own revenues which showed a slow but fairly steady
increase up to 1979, then dropped drastically in 1982, since when it has been
increasing again. The maintenance share of expenditures increased
substantially in 1979, from an average of 35X in the previous decade, to some
50% since. The 1988 budget (Table 9) allocation for maintenance, ZL 90
billion, would amount to about ZL 2.12 million (about US$5,600) per km (both
routine and recurrent), which is reasonable, while the construction budget, ZL
57 billion (about US$150 million) is very low. Implicit in the numbers is an
extremely low allocation for new equipment, leaving a large proportion of the
equipment over-aged.
2.27 The road user charges consist of fuel taxes, turnover taxes on the
purchase of new and old vehicles and annual vehicle fees. The retail prices
for diesel and gasoline are tied to the agreements for crude oil imports
mainly from the Soviet Union which do not directly reflect world market
prices. Taxes levied in 1989 constitute 68 and 531 of gasoline and diesel
retail prices respectively. Fuel tax revenue was estimated to reach ZL 1622
billion in 1989 and is by far the single most important source of revenue from
road users. The turnover tax on new and old vehicles beginning in March 1990
is 501 of the retail price and contributed in 1989 some ZL 16 billion. The
vehicle fees were increased by 22 times in 1990, and the estimate of these
fees for 1990 is ZL 335 billion.   All of these taxes go into state or local
budgets being no earmarking for road purposes. Although the above charges
cover by several times the total expenditures of GDDP, the question of road
user charges and expenditures has not really been studied and some of the
above figures are rather conjectural. The project therefore includes a study
of this question (para 3.18(iv)(c)).



- 14 -
III. THE LpJ.ECT
A. Obiectives
3.01 The Bank's overall strategy is to supiport Poland's central development
challenge which is to reach a sustainable growth path which would strengthen
the economy's ability to compete in the world markets and improve living
standards at home while meeting its external debt burden. To achieve this it
is fundamental to: (i) reform the economic system to enable the economy to
produce and distribute more efficiently; (ii) restructure the outmoded and
deficient production and maintenance facilities; (iii) arrange substantial
foreign assistance to finance the restructuring efforts.
3.02 The project would support these objectives and articulate them in the
transport sector. If measures like those included in the project are not
undertaken, the transport system will deteriorate and constraints will appear,
drive up transport costs at an accelerating rate and ultimately lead to
significant capacity bottlenecks. Although privatization of a large part of
the economy is an important element of economic reform in Poland, many of the
organizations in the transport sector, such as the railways and the highway
administration, will remain in the public sphere for the foreseeable future
and it iF vitally important that they too be modernized and their efficiency
be increased. In parallel, competition in the sector has to be increased and
certain activities developed so as to become possible to privatize. The Bank
also has a vital role as a catalyst for the support and speeding up of the
Government's reform program as well as a conduit for the introduction of
modern institutional structures, techniques and capabilities. The project,
therefore, aims to: i) help the sector evolve from one characterized by
rigidities, central commands, narrow engineering considerations, and capital-
intensive solutions to modern organizational forms and management strategies
adapted to a more open economy including measures which will contribute to
introducing competition in the transport system, such as increasing the
autonor,y of the enterprises in the PKP group, and changing procurement and
marketing procedures; ii) introduce more efficient internal management systems
and maintenance procedures as well as the equipment necessary to support this;
and iii) train managers in modern management techniques; and (iv) improve
physical and financial performance. The project will focus on the maintenance
requirements of those parts of the railway and highway systems which are
deemed to be economically viable in the long run. Those parts of the system
which do not have prospects of economic viability should be abandoned, and
within the project this objective would be pursued for uneconomic railway
lines, marshalling yards and stations. The project would modify the
relationship between PKP and two of its major manufacturing units, ZWUS and
ZNTKS. In addition, it would contribute to financial discipline in these
entities by having the allocations from the PKP loan to them made on
commercial market terms. The project would also develop longer term plans for
the restructuring and modernization of operations and maintenance according to
sound economic criteria.



- 15 -
B.  Donsdaignl
3.03 The components of the proposed project cover activities needed to
support the Goverrment's transport sector restructuring program as well as
components for railways and highways. They are summarized below and
subsequently justified in more detail (paras. 3.04-18). Data used in the
preparation of the project and the source material are listed in the Project
File.
Railway Components
(i) Rolling Stock MaintenwAnce and Repair: Modernization of the
maintenance equipment and facilities for electric locomotives;
improvement of freight car repairs; modernization of brake shoe
manufacturing;
(ii) Track Mairtenance and Repair: Production and installation of more
efficient raiz fastenings, improved turnouts on mainlines and the
production of concrete sleepers, setting up facilities for
reconditioning of rails; flash-butt welding of rail joints; and
import of track maintenance machines as well as modernization of
the domestic repair and construction facilities;
(iii) Signalling and Telecommunications (S&T): Modernization of S&T
production facilities to improve train operating efficiency and
improved data processing facilities;
(iv) Operating Management Information System (OMIS) to achieve a
coordinated flow of data for management decision-making;
(v)   Studies:  (a) long-term locomotive design and maintenance; (b)
design of a modern management information system (MIS) for train
operations and simulation as well as for general management
purposes; and (c) rationalization of train formation and
dispatching. Other studies will be identified as the sector
reforms progress.
(vi) Institution Building: Actions and developing conditions to move
various ancillary services and manufacturing enterprises within
PK? towards becoming autonomous enterprises including change in
procurement and marketing procedures. Training and professional
contacts with Western institutions and transport agencies for
PRP's managers to acquire know-how about Western methods of
strategic planning, economic analysis of investments, management
of transport enterprises etc.
Mihway Administration Comonents
(i)   Development of a Pavement Management System including technical
assistance and equipment;



- 16 -
(ii) Quality control and testing laboratory equipment.
Sector Reform Components
(i)   Technical Assistance, Training and Studies for Sectoral Reform;
(ii)  Program to reduce Uneconomic Railway Lines and Stations;
(iii) Annual review of Transport Sector Investment Program;
(iv)  PKP Financial and Physical Performance; and
(v)   Sectoral Studies:  a) development of combined transports; b) road
transport development; and, c) road user charges.
Electric Locomotive Maintenance and Repair
3.04 This component addresses the maintenance of heavy-haul electric
locomotives in order to increase availability and performance. The focus is
on: (i) improving the organizational structure which is ill-adapted to the
introduction of a modern unit-exchange system and thus increased locomotive
availability; (ii) modernizing the flow of work in the workshops to reduce
the locomotive repair time; (iii) improving traction motor performance
through better maintenance machines; and (iv) introducing a higher level of
specialization in the workshops and consequently upgrade the efficiency of
locomotive maintenance (Annex 3). For this purpose the Bank loan will finance
machines for workshops (Annex 4A), as well as a study to review long-term
electric locomotive design and maintenance practices (para. 3.12(i)).
Rolling Stock Maintenance and ReRair
3.05 The efficiency of PKP's fleet of some 80,000 4-axle coal cars is reduced
by body damage and brake and brake shoe problems. The project proposes to
centralize rolling stock repair in the workshop at Bydgoszcz and provide the
equipment needed for the introduction of a moduler repair system in order to
achieve higher productivity and lower down-time. The development of this
workshop into a specialized wagon repair facility and the down-sizing of its
other subsidiary activities would be the principal objective of this
component.
3.06 For the maintenance of operational safety, PKP has to ensure a
continuous supply of high quality brake shoes. They are at present produced
in the Bydgoszcz workshops. The foundry now in use is obsolete with ensuing
low efficiency and productivity. The project will finance a complete
continuous casting chain with high efficiency automatic molding machines.
Track Maintenance and ReRair
3.07 PKP's track is showing signs of fatigue caused by the heavy traffic it
carries without a commensurate program of intensive maintenance at regular
intervals. The present deficiencies in track maintenance stem from:



- 17 -
(i)   lack of adequate elastic rail fastenings;
(ii)  failure to renew turnouts in time;
(iii) a fleet of track maintenance machines whose productivity is low
because of age and obsolescence; and
(iv)  lack of adequate ballast to stabilize the track geometry since PKP
does not have the requisite tamping capacity.
Bank financing is proposed to be applied to the following high priority areas:
(a)   SB-3 Elastic Rail Fastening System.   A good elastic fastening
system of the low maintenance type will yield substantial benefits
through increased tamping intervals, less rail creep and reduced
track maintenance costs. PKP's research institute has developed a
modern elastic fastener which has already been tested, proven and
is ready for manufacture. Project financing covers the foreign
exchange costs of imported equipment needed for the manufacture of
the fastenings and concrete sleepers.
(b)   Imgrovement of Turnouts and Reconditioning of Rails.  PKP has
about 300 low speed orders due to turnouts in bad conditions.
Rails are severely bent at the ends and have frequent wheel burns.
Turnouts and rail in good condition are crucial to safety and good
track geometry. PKP's programme rightly concentrates on
reconditioning and re-using these expensive components. The
reconditioning and improvement of turnouts would require adoption
of a new turnout design which needs higher quality steel in line
with modern European practice and which would save some 15,OOOt of
steel annually. Cutting off rail ends, straightening them out and
grinding the rail table are measures needed to enable old rails to
be re-used; it is also necessary to set up a line of concrete
sleeper fabrication to ensure adequate track repairs. These
regenerative nrocedures need machinery and equipment which would
be financed from the Bank loan.
(c)   Fla3ih...B&tt Welding of Heat Treated UIC-60 Rails.  To increase rail
life and to decrease track reconstruction, PKP is installing heat-
treated rails on its most heavily used routes. To reap the full
benefits of this program, modern flash butt welders are necessary.
The project will equip two plants with welders and rail grinders.
(d)   Track Maintenance Machines.  Due to foreign exchange scarcity, PKP
has been unable to renew its machine fleet which is now deficient.
This renewal is an urgent need. This will be met partly through
direct import of track maintenance machines (Annex 4B), partly
through modernizing the PKP owned manufacturing facility at
Stargard (Annex 8). The Stargard workshop has to be upgraded to
meet the demand in volume and quality of its production. In order
to manufacture modern high productivity machines, machine tools



- 18 -
from hard currency countries will be needed (Annex 4C). Modern
technology will be acquired through joint vent-ure agreements
giving the foreign partner a share in the management of the
company. An evaluation of the Stargard workshop management and
production capabilities in given in Annex 2.
Signalling and Telecommunications
3.08 PKP has a well-established subsidiary company, ZWUS, under its umbrella
to manufacture signalling equipment. A description of ZWUS is in Annex 1.
This company has to be strengthened in two ways to enable it to meet PKP's
signalling program during the 90s - (i) increasing production capacity of
conventional ee'uipment, and (ii) acquiring the machines and the technology
needed to produce the more efficient electronic microprocessor-based equipment
and also introduce management partnership with the foreign collaborator. This
support is inescapable and urgent if PKP is to manage its traffic with greater
operating and financial efficiency. Also the signalling maintenance is
handicapped by lack of tools and instruments. The list of production machines
and maintenance tools and instruments to be financed by the project is in
Annex 4D.
3.09 PKP's telecommunication network, which will be the back-bone for
operational control systems and data transmission, is well-designed and has
been constructed using largely indigenous cable. However, network linking and
interface equipment is available only from the hard currency markets. The
project will finance this data networking equipment, without which the
management information system described below cannot become operative.
Management Information System (MIS)
3.10 PKP has a computer-based statistical unit which handles: (i) payroll;
(ii) pension fund and (iii) traffic and operating statistics. Item (iii) is
used for ex-post facto compilation and not as 'real-time" management tool for
forward planning of train operations. The most urgent objective of the
project in the domain of MIS is the creation of an Operating Management
Information System (OMIS) which would optimize PKP's operations through: (i)
improved wagon and locomotive utilization; (ii) real-time operational
decisions and planning and (iii) more efficient terminal and marshalling yard
management. The OMIS would focus, in particular, on: locomotive and wagon
control; yard management; distribution of empty wagons; block train
operations; container traffic; customer information; and a traffic costing
system of sufficient depth to provide key data for tariff and marketing
decisions, and a system for passenger reservation. Workshop management, track
maintenance monitoring, full cost accounting module, etc. will be superimposed
on the information network at a subsequent stage. The design of the OMIS will
be compatible with the HERMES information system being set up in Europe by the
International Railway Union (UIC). The proposed loan would finance the direct
foreign exchange cost of the computer network hardware and operations and
marketing software. The bid documents will provide the system performance
specifications and leave the bidders the desired flexibility to submit
alternative cost-effective solutions for the hardware and related systems.
The requirements of the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Exports
(COCOM) will be considered. It is essential to complete Phase II in order to



v 19 v
achieve full economic benefits. However, the composition of each phase will
be based on the results of a study financed with PPF funds. These
arrangements were discussed and agreed during Loan Negotiations (para. 6.02).
3.11 In order to carry out the detailed engineering of this component, a
study will be undertaken for (i) elaboration of the system design including
both hardware and software; (ii) prioritizing the actions needed to interface
PKP's system with the HERMES system, as soon as possible, at least by 1993, so
that PKP will not lose its comparative advantage for transit and international
traffic. Another significant objective of this study
will be to provide PKP senior managers and information systems specialists an
indepth hands-on experience of the OMIS and traffic costing systems already in
operation in some of the advanced railway systems in Europe and N. America.
This approach integrates a guided learning phase with a participatory design
and implementation phase. It is deemed to be a key element in ensuring the
acceptability of the final design to PKP's management an4 giving it their
support. The Terms of Reference for this Study are in Annex 5. Further
technical assistance needed during the post procurement implementation phase
has been included.
Studies
3.12   While supporting some of the urgently needed investments as outlined
above, there is a definite need to investigate closer some of the
long-term activities and practices. A number of studies have therefore been
included in the project. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
progress on these studies will be reviewed from time to time and that their
findings will be discussed with the Bank not later than the end of 1992 (para
6.01).
(i)  Review of long-term locomotive design and maintenance practices.
Draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 6.
(ii) Design of a modern management information system (MIS) for train
operations as well as for general management purposes (para. 3.11
and Annex 5).
(iii) Study for the rationalization of train formation and dispatching
and their impact on the marshalling yard modernization program.
Draft Terms of Reference are in Annex 7.
(iv) Collaboration between ZWUS/ZNTKS and foreign industry for
improving managerial and financial performance. Draft Terms of
Reference are in Annex 8.
3.13    One important element in the restructuring of PKP is a change in its
relatianships to the service and manufacturing units under its purview. The
present umbilical relationship with essentially one supplier, one buyer with
little or no competition should be replaced by a system where both PKP and the
various units are free and capable to compete. In order to move towards that
objective the units must evolve to become independent enterprises. Since the



- 20 -
about 70 units involved operate under vastly different conditions, there is no
single receipe that fits them all. The project therefore includes a provision
for PKP to elaborate a strategy not later than by the end of 1991 on the
transformation of its affiliated units towards autonomous enterprises with
transparent business relations to PKP and with the potential to function in a
market-based system (para. 6.01). rte two enterprises included in the
project, ZWUS and ZNTKS, will develop their own marketing services and markets
for their product (para. 5.08).
Institution Building
3.14 PKP's staff at the technical levels are competent in their work. Their
work is backed up by a substantial body of supporting manuals and technical
literature which provides them adequate guidance in their field work. The
technical research and training programs appear adequate. However, there is a
need for training in the use of new equipment and technology to be provided
under the project. Relevant technical training will be a part of the
equipment supply contracts.
3.15 In addition, PKP's managers, just emerging from a centrally planned
environment, are in need of management training pertaining to questions such
as cost control, tariff structures, and marketing in a competitive
environment. They have to be sensitized to the techniques of data collection
and information utilization to achieve the above objectives. For this
purpose, the project provides for (i) formal and informal courses/study tours
in railway management training centers and in academic institutions abroad;
and (ii) participatory learning by working with consultants on the studies
planned under the project. Exchange programs with western transport agencies
will also be organized (para. 6.01).
Highway Administration Components
3.16 Pavement Management System: In order to assist the Highway
Administration in developing a Pavement Management System (PMS), the project
would finance necessary equipment presently lacking and technical assistance
and training. To phase the procurement of the equipment with the development
of the PNS, GDDP has provided an Action Plan showing an outline of the system
development program, with a timetable. Training in operation, calibration and
maintenance of equipment will be provided for under the supply contracts, but
all other installation costs, provision of vehicles and installation of data
logging equipment for towed devices, installation of detector loops, etc. in
pavements would be the responsibility of GDDP. The project also provides for
up to 6 man-months of technical assistance and of overseas visits by GDDP
staff in connection with development of the PMS, or installation and
maintenance of the equipment items. Items to be financed under this component
are shown in Annex 4E.
3.17 Laboratory Eguipment. The design of road pavements and bituminous mixes
and the supervision of production and laying is carried out by GDDP's 17
district road laboratories. Although these laboratories are generally well
staffed and possess the basic equipment, in many cases there is a lack of
modern apparatus, especially for the control of production and laying of



21 -
bituminous pavements. The project would supply the items shown in Annex 4E
all of which represent a major step forward in precision and speed of
operation.
3.18 Sector Reform Components
(i)   ¶echnical Assistance. Training and Studies for Sectoral Reform
The restructuring of the transport sector in Poland aims at: (a) a
decrease of Government subsidies through better cost recovery; (b)
improved efficiency; and (c) increased market responsiveness.
This process is underway for road transport services where various
measures are being implemented. These include the break-up of PKS
into smaller independent companies, the creation of joint-venture
companies with foreign partners, aiming at creating competition
and reducing the amount of own account trucking. For PKP the work
on defining a strategy for restructuring is underway. The
Government aims to maintain rail passenger services as a social
service which will require subsidies also in the future. The
structure and level of these subsidies will be reviewed, however,
so as to reduce them. Freight services will operate on purely
market conditions and for intercity passenger services the
objective is to radically cut subsidies. The structure of PKP
with its more than 60 subsidiary units in construction, industrial
production, services, etc. will be changed with the following
objectives: (a) they will be required to operate commercially;
(b) they will become largely independent from PKP; (c) they, and
PKP, will develop normal marketing arrangements with each other
and with the outside, with PKP and the units selecting suppliers
and customers on a normal competitive basis. The subsidiaries are
foreseen to be restructured in three possible ways: (a) into
joint stock companies; (b) privatized; (c) into independent state
owned enterprises. The choice of solution requires studies and
analyses from various points of view. Such studies, in various
degree of completion, are underway in the MTME. To support the
Government in this restructuring effort this component focuses on
enterprise restructuring and institution-building through
technical assistance, studies and staff training.
(ii) Closure of Uneconomic Railway Lines and Stations
Agreement was reached during negotiations that not less than 1,000
km of uneconomic railway lines be closed before June 30, 1995 with
about 200 km annually. The 1991 closure program has been
submitted to the Bank and is satisfactory. Thereafter such
programs would be presented on an annual basis and followed by a
description of actual outcome at year's end, including the
dispositions taken in regard to surplus staff. For station
closures the status of the ongoing studies were discussed and the
1991 program agreed upon during negotiations;
(iii) Annual Review of Transport Sector Investment Program
During negotiations agreement was reached that the Bank would
annually review and discuss the investment program for the whole



- 22 -
transport sector (para. 6.01). It would furthermore require that
an increasing proportion of the investments be subjected to
economic analysis according to methodology acceptable to the Bank.
The matter has been discussed with the Economic Research Institute
and it is proposed that this institute be made responsible for
this component of the project. It is further proposed that the
percentage of total investments subjected to analysis be raised
from 20X at the beginning to 80% at the end of the project in
1995;
(iv) PKP Operating and Financial Performance
Operat.in,g &atigs:  To improve its performance agreement was
reached during negotiations that PKP will reach operating targets
as defined and with values as given in Annex 9 (para. 6.01>. The
attainment of the targets will be monitored and discussed annually
with Bank. The actual values of the targets were discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. PKP's operating ratios achieved
during the previous four years have been about 105. In order to
reduce the demands on the Government's budget in future years,
during negotiations agreement was reached that PKP will reduce its
operating ratio (operating expenditure/operating revenue),
excluding subsidies to not more than: 1991 - 104; 1992 - 102; 1993
onwards - 100 and its operating ratio including subsidies: 1991
onwards - not more than 90 (para. 6.01). This would mean a
reduction of about 351 in real terms in Government subsidies to
PKP from 1993 onwards compared to the 1988 level. This reduction
is equivalent to about 9X of PKP's freight and passenger revenue
or about 66% of passenger revenue alone. It is expected that PKP
would achieve this objective through a combination of cost
reductions, increased labor productivity, less unprofitable
passenger services and higher tariffs.
uhs_Jdy. kay.mant e__hQd.  Presently the Government pays subsidies
to cover the deficit in passenger services based on projected cost
plus 61 profit less projected revenue. MTME, Ministry of Finance
and PKP will review the method of calculation and payment of
subsidies to develop a system based on considerations outlined in
Annex 11. Agreement was reached during negotiations that progress
of the study be reviewed from time to time and that the proposed
actions be discussed with the Bansc not later than December 31,
1991 (para. 6.01).
Tariffs.  The inflation rate in Poland is presently very high.  To
ensure that PKP's revenue increases in line with expenditures,
agreement was reached at negotiations to adjust tariffs in line
with inflation (paras. 5.05, 6.01).
(v)   Studes
In order to provide the basis for policy decisions the following
studies are included in the project:



- 23 -
(a)   neyelogment of_Combiined Ir&nports.  Various aspects of this
question are presently being studied in MTME, Department of
Transport Systems. The study objectives outlined in the
Transport Sector Memorandum are being incorporated. These
studies were discussed during negotiations and further
actions were agreed upon;
(b)   ]opd_TraUsport_D_v&lgp_ent.  The Economic Research Institute
of MTME is carrying out studies on various aspects of road
transport development. A proposal for a study,
incorporating presently ongoing and planned activities as
well as the points raised on this issue in the Transport
Sector Memorandum has been discussed and further actions
agreed upon; and
(c)   Ro_d_User Charges.  The question of road user charges has
important implications not only for the road transport
sector but for other modes of transport as well. The
Ministry of Finance has agreed to participate in a study on
this subject. The outline of such a study was discussed
during negotiations;
(d)  As the transport sector is reformed further studies may
become necessary.  The project has a lump sum allocation for
such future needs.
During negotiations agreement was reached that progress of the studies be
reviewed from time to time and that the findings be discussed with the Bank as
they are completed and before Government decision based on these findings are
taken and in any case not later than the end of 1992 (para. 6.01).
C. Engineering
3.19 Detailed engineering for the track repair and rehabilitation as well as
for the S&T components is substantially complete and is satisfactory for
computing overall project costs. The revised conceptual redesign of the
locomotive and rolling stock rehabilitation component is based on a Workshop
Rehabilitation Plan prepared by the PKP. For the Highway Component an Action
Plan for the pavement management system development has been received and
found satisfactory (para. 3.16).
D. Cost Estimates
3.20 The total project costs including contingencies are shown in Table 10.
The project cost includes a foreign exchange component of US$173.00 million
and a local component of US$43.50 million equivalent. Cost estimates are
based on PKP's and GDDP's detailed quantity estimates and unit prices updated
to January 1989 prices. Most of the civil works relate to refurbishing of old
buildings or the construction of new structures which have already been
substantially completed. The cost estimates exclude these costs. The cost of
direct imports was estimated at current international prices. Physical



- 24 -
contingencies vary from 3X to 5X depending on the engineering nature of the
project. Price contingencies in foreign costs are computed based on cost
escalations (X) shown below:
1989        1990         1991        1992         1993         1994        1995
Foreign         7.2        7.2           4.4          4.4         4.4          4.4          4.4
3.21  The proposed Bank loans would finance the direct foreign exchange cost
of the railway and highway components, training and technical assistance. The
project cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 below. The Rolling Stock
maintenance is cofinanced by EIB in respect of the foreign exchange component.
Table 3.1: Prolect Cost Estimate (Fiaures in US$ mitlion)
BASE COST        PRICE CONTING.  PHYSIC. CONTING.  TOTAL COST    TOTAL
OOMPNENT          MLOCAL  FOREIGN TOTAL  LOCAL FOREIGN  LOCAL  FOREIGN  LOCAL FOREIGN PROJ.COST
A. Railways
1. Track achines 0.00  21.10  21.10   0.00   4.32    0.00   0.61      0.00  26.04   26.04
2. Track Maint.  20.77  34.40  55.17   4.78   7.54     .71   1.13    26.26  42.07   69.32
3. Rott.Stok maint. .68  15.99  16.67    .12   3.54    .02    .48       .82  20.00   20.82
4. SignalLing     .10   1.62   1.72   0.02   0.47    0.00   0.05      0.12   2.14    2.26
5. Tetecom.equfp. 2.60  10.40  13.00   0.50   1.61    0.08   0.34     3.18  12.35   15.53
6. MIS           6.00  25.00  31.00   1.02   4.32    0.18   1.25       7.20  30.57   37.77
7. Studies, etc.   .79   2.21   3.00    .09    .75    0.05   0.12     0.93   3.08    4.00
B. ZNTKS            1.05   6.50   7.55   0.22   1.05    0.03   0.20      1.30   7.75    9.05
C. ZWUS             2.06  16.88  18.94   0.33   2.52    0.41   0.60      2.80  20.00   22.80
D. CDOP             0.22   2.70   2.92   0.02   0.39    0.02   0.11      0.26   3.20    3.46
E. MTME             0.52          4.45   0.09    WI7   0.03   0.16       0.64   4.80        i
GRAND TOTAL        34.79 140.73 175.52   7.19  27.22    1.52   5.04    43.50 173.00  216.50
E.   Financing
3.22 The estimated costs and financing of the project are summarized in Table
3.2 below:
Table 3.2: Project Cost Financing
Project Costs (US$ million)
Project Component          Local                Foreign                   Total
PKP, of which              42.60                 165.00                 207.60
ZWUS                     (2.80)               (20.00)                 (22.80)
ZNTKS                    (1.30)                 (7.75)                 (9.05)
GDDP                         0.26                  3.20                    3.46
MTME                         O4                    4.80                    5.44
TOTAL                   43.50                173.00                 216.50



- 25 -
3.23 As the proposed Bank loans of $153 million together with the EIB
financing of $20 milliouz would cover all the foreign exchange costs of the
project, the additional funds required would all be local. These would come
from the regular investment budgets of the entities involved, i.e. PKP, ZWUS,
ZNTKS, GDDP and MTME. During negotiations, the project financing was reviewed
and confirmed. Cross-effectiveness between the two Bank loans and the EIB
loan apply (para. 6.02 (ii)).
3.24 Concessional financing may be available to carry out the preparatory
work necessary for the MIS (para. 3.10). In case such financing should fail
to materialize, provision has been included for retroactive financing of this
work (maximum $350,000 after April 1, 1990).
F. Tle Loans. the Borrowers and the Beneficiaries
3.25 The Borrowers of the proposed loans would be the Republic of Poland and
Polish State Railways (PKP). The beneficiaries of the loan to the Republic
would be GDDP, US$3.20 million and MTME, US$4.80 million. The Bank would
enter into loan agreements with the Government and PKP and sign a guarantee
agreement with the Government for the PKP loan. US$20 million and US$7.75
million equivalent would be allocated from the PKP loan to ZWUS and ZNTKS
respectively for a period of 10 years including 3 years of grace, at DM LIBOR
plus 2X. The allocations would be made in DM with PKP bearing the cross-
currency risk between the DM and the Bank pool of currencies. The DM
denomination would minimize the currency risk since both ZWUS and ZNTKS trade
predominantly in the DM area. These arrangements were confirmed with the
Government during negotiations.
G. Implementation
3.26 Project coordination and monitoring will be accomplished by a setup
described in Annex 10. Essentially each implementing agency/beneficiary of
the project will be responsible for the implementation of its own component.
The coordination at the apex level will be carried out by the Director of
Engineering Policies (DEP) in the NTME and a nominee of the Projects wing of
the National Bank of Poland (NBP). Inside each implementing agency, a unit
coordinator will be responsible for monitoring physical progress,
disbursements and project related correspondence and reporting to the DEP of
the MTME. The establishment of the Coordination and Monitoring organization
and the appointment of its officers will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 6.02).
3.27  Railway Comgonent.  PKP has the requisite human resources and the basic
expertise needed to undertake project monitoring and procurement. PKP's
engineers have the technical capability to make bid evaluations for even
complex bids. However, they lack knowledge of and experience in the
application of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. It is therefore proposed to
organize a seminar on procurement in Poland during one of the early missions.
In addition, it is proposed to provide external assistance for preparation and
translation of bidding documents and for bid evaluation in the early stages to
avoid delays. The installation of workshop machines and ancillary works will



- 26 -
be handled by the successful bidder from among the eight construction
companies under PKP. This will be the first time that these companies will
function in a competitive environment. The installation of signalling
manufacturing equipment will be the responsibility of ZWUS. The supervision
and management of the overall project would be entrusted to a Project
Management Group to be created out of the existing staff of PKP and the
Economic and Technical Research Institute and placed under the administrative
control of the Deputy Director General (Technical) of PKP (Annex 10).
3.28 Highwav Cogonent. Implementation will be the responsibility of GDDP
who will coordinate the activities of its own departments and operating
districts where the laboratories are located, and the inputs to the project by
the associated agencies shown on Chart 2, e.g. Road Research Institute,
Transprojekt, etc. Good working relationships exist between GDDP headquarters
and the districts, and with the agencies, with whom informal contacts are
possible at any time. GDDP and agency engineers are well trained, but are
unfamiliar with preparing specifications or the Bank's procedures. They will
take responsibility for technical decisions, but will be able to draw on
advice from PKP's procurement unit, and will also attend the proposed
procurement seminar.
Project Imolementation Schedule
3.29 The project is designed to be implemented in five years, July 1990 to
June 1995. The project completion date would be June 30, 1995 and the loan
closing date would be December 31, 1995. Project implementation schedules
are shown in the bar charts in Table 11. Having no civil works, it is
considered that a five year implementation schedule is realistic.
3.30 Progress made in the implementation of the policy and institutional
reform incorporated in the proposed project would be monitored through the
Bank's supervision missions and by the apex monitoring unit (para. 3.26)
reporting twice a year to the Minister and to the Bank. These reports will
cover all policy and institutional reforms contained in the Action Plan and
will be reviewed and commented on by the Bank. The format of these reports
was discussed and confirmed during negotiations. Other reporting requirements
are described in para. 3.38.
H. Prgcurement
3.31 Until now, PKP's foreign equipment procurement has been managed by two
state enterprises. For the proposed project PKP will manage directly the
procurement process. PKP has set up a specialized procurement unit, FERPOL,
which is fully responsible for project procurement. The project will help
improve the in-house procurement unit to take advantage of the new autonomy
granted by the Government from January 1989. The composition of this unit,
its role and authority will be fine-tuned at negotiations. Agreement on terms
of reference for this unit was be reached during negotiations (para 6.01). It
would need technical assistance and training for which funds are available
frot the project (para 3.18(iv)(d)).



- 27 -
3.32 Procurement of 60X of the total project cost (or 72% of Bank financing)
would be through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines and about 221 by International Shopping. The rest is
for consulting services consistent with Bank guidelines. PKP's technical
specifications tend to be modelled on the equipment generally available in the
Eastern block countries. Considerable preliminary technical work has been
done at appraisal to sensitize PKP to the need to prepare broad-based
specifications to take advantage of ICB procedures. PKP is already
familiarizing itself with the documentation, technical information etc.
needed to prepare specifications which incorporate recent technological
advances. The list of equipment to be procured through ICB is given in Table
3.3 below. Except for some equipment needed for the expansion of the section
of the facility currently manufacturing Intrinsically Fail-Safe Relays of
Swedish design, no proprietary procurement of any significant magnitude is
expected. Most of PKP procurement with Bank financing is unavailable from
local manufacturers. However, should domestic manufacturers participate in
the bidding, they would be accorded a preference of 15X or the applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower.
3.33 GDDP is less experienced in procurement matters and will use the
expertise developing in PKP. In view of the specialized nature of the highway
component equipment and the small number of suppliers, ICB is not appropriate.
Procurement will be made on the basis of bids invited from short lists with
which the Bank shall have concurred, i.e. Limited International Bidding (LIB).
All bidding documents and contract awards will be subject to prior review by
the Bank.
3.34 All procurement would follow Bank's Guidelines. All bid documents and
contracts for bidding lots of US$200,000 or more would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. It is estimated that about 901 of the number of contracts
for goods, amounting to US$138 million of Bank financing will be captured by
this threshold for prior review. Contracts for lesser amounts would be
subject to ex-post review. Procurement of consulting services and training
would follow appropriate Bank Guidelines. An estimated total of 36 man months
of foreign consulting services and 50 man months of local consulting services
would be needed for the identified studies and another 65 man months for the
studies necessary for ZWUS and ZNTKS (para 3.12 (iv) and Annex 8) as well as
for studies to be identified as the situation evolves. These procurement
arrangements have been agreed with the Government and the executing agencies,
during negotiations. Table 3.3 below provides a summary of the type of
procurement which would apply to goods and services under the project.



- 28 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
Procurement Method
(US$ million)'"
Project Element            1. LIB    QthbrYe                 Total
Track Maintenance Machines       --       26.04    --       26.04
(26.04)           (26.04)
Track Maintenance Manufacture  42.67    0.40   26.26    69.33
(42.67)   (0.40)   --      (43.07)
Signalling                        1.89    0.25    0.12       2.26
(1.89)  (0.25)   --       (2.14)
Telecommunications Equipment   12.05    0.30    3.18    15.53
(12.05)   (0.30)  --       (12.35)
Managing Info. System            29.77    0.80    7.20    37.77
(29.77)   (0.80)  --      (30.57)
Track Equipment Manufacture3J   6.25    1.50    1.30         9.05
(6.25)   (1.50)  --       (7.75)
Machines for ZWUS3I              16.85    1.50    2.55    20.90
(16.85)   (1.50)    -     (18.35)
Highways                         --        2.00    1.36      3.36
(2.00)  (1.10)   (3.10)
Studies                          --       --       7.59      7.59
(6.60)   (6.60)
Institution Building             --       --       3.85      3.85
(3.03)   (3.03)
TOTAL                     109.48   32.79   53.41   195.68
(109.48) (32.79) (10.73) (153.0)
Note: Figures in parantheses are amounts financed by the Bank.
1/ Costs include estimated price and physical contingencies.
2/ Includes international shopping and proprietary procurement.
3/ Includes technical design costs of $2.5 million.
4/ Includes consultants fees and study tours for PKP Managers.



- 29 -
I. Disbursement
3.35 Disbursements will cover:
(a)   100% of foreign (C.I.F.) or 100X of ex-factory costs of equipment
and materials; and
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures for consultancy services, training
and studies, including systems design for information services.
With the exception of contracts valued at US$200,000 equivalent or less all
withdrawal applications will be fully documented. Disbursements against
contracts valued at US$200,000 or less would be on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures (SOE). Documentation to support expenditures financed under SOE
would be maintained by the Executing Agency/Borrower in one location and made
available for review by Bank missions upon request. In addition, the
specifics of the audit of SOE's by auditors acceptable to the Bank was
discussed and agreed at negotiations.
3.36 To maintain adequate availability of funds to the executing agencies for
eligible expenditures with minimum delay, the Borrowers will establish Special
Accounts (revolving funds) in amounts of DM 500,000 and DM 4 million
(Government and PKP loan respectively). Records of the Special Account
transactions should be available for Bank missions and subject to annual audit
under conditions agreed at negotiations. The documentation needed to be
presented for replenishment of the Special Accounts will follow standard Bank
practice.
3.37 Based on the loan becoming effective in mid 1990, a schedule of
estimated disbursements is shown in Table 12.   This schedule, indicates a 5
year disbursement period. This schedule was discussed and confirmed at
negotiations.
J. Beporting and Audit
3.38 The format of the quarterly progress and financial reports was confirmed
at negotiations.
3.39 PKP's Central Accounting Department and the operating divisions have a
staff of internal auditors and inspectors who are continuously auditing PKP's
operations. In addition, the accounts of the eight rail operating regions and
the affiliated units within PKP are audited annually by auditors assigned by
PKP's Central Accounting Department. Most, but not all, of these auditors
hold audit qualifications issued by the Ministry of Finance. The consolidated
accounts of PKP are also audited annually by auditors appointed and paid by
the Ministry of Finance. For the 1987 audit four individual auditors were
appointed to undertake the work. These auditors hold audit qualification
issued by the Ministry of Finance and are full time employees of other
companies who are released with pay to undertake the audit assignment. The
terms of reference for auditors require them "to verify all entries in the
balance sheet based on evidence and documentation to ensure that the entry is



- 30 -
in accordance with Polish law". The auditor is also required to verify that
the amounts due to the Government's budget are correct. The principal
objective of this audit is to ensure that all taxes due to the Government are
paid. It therefore does not have the depth and scope of a generally accepted
audit which the Government should have to secure an objective evaluation of
the results of enterprises the size of PKP, particularly in the area of
integrity of accounts, transfer pricing and in evaluating enterprise
performance under proposed restructuring programs. In addition, the auditors
as individuals do not have the independence, unity of command, and public
liability implied in an audit context. To rapidly establish satisfactory
audit organizations and to provide them with adequate staff and support
facilities to undertake an indepth audit, the Government could authorize
qualified auditors to establish audit companies or audit institutes along the
lines of the economic or scientific institutes. A loan to strengthen Poland's
financial systems, including the audit function, is presently planned for
1991. Aside from the above qualification, however, the audit procedures meet
the generally accepted auditing standard of Poland and provide a satisfactory
internal and compliance audit system. These arrangements should be accepted
by the Bank for an interim period of three years to enable the Government to
implement the necessary reorganization and trairing of the audit profession.
Audit firms with the necessary independence and support facilities could be
available by 1994. During negotiations agreement was reached that the
accounts of PKP, ZWUS and ZNTKS and the project accounts of GDDP will be
audited annually by independent auditors and under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and that the audit reports be submitted to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of the fiscal year except in the case
of PKP's consolidated accounts for the years 1990 and 1991 when the audited
accounts will be submitted within nine months.
K. Environmental Imnacts
3.40 The environmental screening of the project has been carried out in
conformity with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.00, Annex A. (The project
has been placed in Category B which includes projects which have limited
environmental impact and do not require an Environmental Assessment.) The
sector-wide environmental issues related to transport are vainly those having
to do with vehicle emissions. Fuel efficiency of cars and trucks in Poland is
low and the gasoline used is leaded. How these factors relate to other
environmental concerns is being addressed in the overall environmental
strategy which is presently under elaboration. The present project deals with
the environmental consequences of the project components where it is expected
to significantly contribute to an urgently needed improvement. Those
workshops in which investments are proposed, will be obliged to eliminate
environmental damage including that of already existing installations. The
coal car repair component will reduce, by an estimated 80X, the present
spillage from defective wagons of some 500,000 tons annually onto the tracks
and the consequent coal contamination of the environment. The improved track
and signalling will reduce accidents. Road and rail track improvements will
significantly reduce fuel consumption by facilitating non-stop movement and
improving road surfaces. The modernization of the locomotive workshops will
make for healthier, safer and more productive working conditions. The
replacement of old mechanical signalling by electric signalling will reduce



- 31 -
the injuries among the polntsmen and field staff. Likewise, the modernization
of marshalling yards will eliminate the intrinsically dangerous task of skid
porters and brakemen who are engaged in stopping speeding wagons by risky
means. The highway component will contribute to maximizing the effectiveness
of maintenance funds which will have indirect effects on safety, noise, and
drainage. None of the components of the proposed project would contribute to
further environmental degradation.
3.41 During appraisal, the waste water treatment plants of the workshops in
Bydgoszcz, Gliwice and Katowice were visited. The quality of the effluent is
being regularly tested, particularly for heavy metals and the results are
regularly monitored by management. Equipment for scrubbing of chimney gases
functions in all PKP workshops but its efficiency requires upgrading in some
cases. PKP is well aware of this and other environmental problems.
Management has taken a serious view of the issues involved and has included in
the investment program works which will upgrade the performance of the
existing equipment for the scrubbing of flue gases and other effluents.
During the project period, these investments will amount to ZL 560 million in
Minsk, 30 million in Olesnica, 50 million in Gliwice and 283 million in
Bydgosez, totalling US$0.5 million equivalent in improvements. PKP has agreed
to carry out these investments. The flue gas and effluent treatments in .tte
Stargard workshop need substantial improvements.   ZNTKS has confirmed their
intention to include appropriate investments as part of their ongoing
modernization.   An environmental program based on the above was detailed and
agreed during negotiations (para. 6.01).



- 32 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Gengeral
4.01 Economic evaluation of projects in Poland is subjected to systemic
difficulties. These stem primarily from the basic characteristics inherent in
the Polish economic system, in particular the weak relationship between prices
and economic costs. In addition, there are difficulties of assessing the
consequences, financial as well as physical, of various actions in the
existing system because of the distorted nature of incentives. The economic
evaluation has therefore proceeded through a number of iterations.
Feasibility studies were carried out for the main project components by
appropriate Polish institutions. These studies have been checked, discussed
and, when necessary, modified by Bank staff. Particularly, whenever
practicable, border prices have been used. Foreign exchange has been shadow
priced, using different values ranging from the official to the parallel
market rates.
B. Project Costs and Benefits
4.02 The project aims at modernizing the transport sector to increase its
efficiency. It is recognized that many of the existing installations and
procedures are obsolete and operate at a very high cost to the economy. The
proposed investments would result in more efficient routines reducing the
required amounts of staff, material inputs, and corrective actions generally.
Thus the benefits are those arising from higher availability of equipment,
less frequent renewals, better use of existing facilities and thus ultimately
less investments. They will accrue initially to the organizations where they
are implemented, i.e., PKP, ZWUS, ZNtKS and the Highways Administration and
will lead to a generalized improvement of the quality and a reduction of the
cost of transport services, thus benefitting most parts of the economy. The
feasibility studies are detailed in the Project File.
C. Economic Returns
PKP Cominonents
4.03  It is assumed (para. 2.06) that no traffic growth takes place for the
railways during the period under consideration. Foreign exchange has been
va'lued at its assumed equilibrium value which has been taken to be the mid
point between the official and the parallel market rates. ERRs based on the
official and on the parallel market rates are given in parenthesis. Overall
ERR is 25X (37, 18%)
4.04 Track Maintenance. The components yield ERRs between 23 and 15X (42 and
181; 22 and 121). The weighted average ERR for this category is 19% (29;15Z).
Below a summary description of the components is given:
i)    Production of the SB-3 Rail Fastening System.  The
benefits are, as compared to the present fastenings,
lower costs, less complicated installation procedures,



- 33 -
better durability, less maintenance and longer
lifetime. The estimated ERR is 181 (27;13X).
ii)   Imorovement of Turnouts.  The increased quality, lifetime and
reliability of the improved turnouts would yield benefits due to
reduction of slow speed orders and derailments as well as a
reduction in the demand of turnouts, spare parts and maintenance.
ERR is estimated to 23% (26;22X).
iii)  Reconditioning of Rails.  This would decrease the amount of new
rails needed, offset by the cost of reconditioning. Based on the
international steel price of December 1988, this yields an ERR of
21X (42;13X).
iv)   Flash Butt Welding of Heat Treated Rails.  The savings will be in
the form of lower demand for rails as well as a sizable reduction
of track construction costs. The estimated ERFR is 15% (18;12X).
v)    Construction and Repair of Track Maintenance Machines.  A large
portion of the existing machines, close to 501, is obsolete and
there is a shortage of machines which causes unsatisfactory track
conditions. A more modern fleet of track maintenance machines
would make possible a better maintained track with fewer speed
restrictions. It is estimated that the number of slow orders
would be progressively reduced by 31 p.a. to reach 301 in
comparison to what would be the case without the component. In
addition, there would be a reduction in the repair and maintenance
cost of the machines as well as an increase in their effective
life. Estimated ERR is 181 (41;12X). The imported machines are
judged to have a similar ERR.
4.05 Rolling Stock Maintenance. The investments in this category all concern
basic improvements to obsolete installations which handle expensive equipment
(electric locomotives and freight cdrs). There is an unquestionable need to
modernize the installations so that the rolling stock can be used more
efficiently. The investments all yield high rates of return.
(i)   Modernization of the Electric Locomotive WorkshoRs (ZNTK's) in
Gliwice. Minsk Mazowiecki and Olesnica. The effects of the
modernization will be better maintained locomotives with fewer
breakdowns and improved availability and hence a lesser number of
locomotives required and reduced train operating costs from fewer
breakdowns. This translates into an ERR of 30% (80; 18%).
(ii)  Modular Freight Car Repair System.  The project will decrease
standing time of cars under repair as well as improving quality of
repair, thereby increasing their useful life. The higher degree
of mechanization will lower the number of employees for
which there are recruitment problems. The estimated ERR is 311
(72;19X).



. 34 -
(iii) Modernization of Brake Block Manufacturing. The present
production of brake blocks takes place in outmoded facilities with
obsolete machines. This component would substitute these machines
for more automatic ones which are much more efficient. ERR is
estimated at 21% (68;11%).
4.06 Signalling and Telecommunications. The improved signalling and
telecommunications will increase the number of electrically operated switches,
expand the automatic block signalling and the centralized and automatic train
control and modernize a reduced number of marshalling yards. This will lead
to more efficient train movements with less waiting times and a reduced demand
for locomotives as well as wagons, both passenger and freight. The estimated
ERR is 272 (36;22%).
4.07 Highway Coimonents. It is not possible to compute an explicit ERR for
either highway subcomponent. However, the funds saved by good quality control
of construction done by an efficient laboratory bring very high returns beyond
any dispute. Countries where pavement management systems have been introduced
report that the efficiency of use of maintenance funds improves by between 10%
and 25%, but the benefits due to timely maintenance on preventing an increase
in vehicle operating costs are usually nearer an ERR of 40%.
4.08 Studies and Institution Building. The proposed studies are all directly
linked to efforts to modernize the transport sector and concern topics where
immediate needs for further clarification of options is urgent.
D. Project Risks
4.09   A risk pertaining to the central objectives of the project is the
progress of the overall economic reform. Since the changes in the transport
sector are dependent on this progress, any slowdown or reversal would be
reflected in the sector. The specific investment projects in plant and
equipment are, however, not likely to be much affected by the macroeconomic
circumstances since they are justified under a wide range of scenarios. On a
different level, the main risks are those inherent in any first project, i.e.,
a relative unfamiliarity on both sides about each other which introduces
uncertainties about the implementation of the recommended policies.
Experience has shown that investments in Poland, especially those involving
civil works, have suffered considerable implementation delays. However, the
absence of major civil works from the project would minimize this risk. With
respect to the estimated ERRs, the components remain viable under a wide range
of assumptions regarding costs and benefits. In fact, the single most
important factor influencing the ERR's is the valuation of foreign exchange.
Assuming an increase of about 50% in foreign exchange cost from its assumed
equilibrium value, all project components remain economically justified.



- 35 -
V. gINACE
A. Introduetion
5.01 The degree to which financial statements of enterprises in Poland
reflect economic realities are, for reasons inherent in the economic system,
limited and uncertain. In recent years, the growth of inflation, without the
adoption of a current cost accounting system, has further exacerbated the
problem. Hence, the financial statements do not necessarily reflect the
efficiency or financial position of enterprises and should be interpreted with
caution. As both passenger and freight enterprises in Poland operate in a
monopolistic or semi-monopolistic market, the setting of administrative price
and subsidies has a major effect on the enterprises' financial results.
B. Accounting
5.02 Accounting regulations in Poland are established by the Ministry of
Finance. The basis of the accounting system is a Uniform Chart of Accounts
which all companies must comply with. This Chart was designed primarily to
provide data for economic planning, tax collection and Government statistics.
Final accounts are prepared annually and interim results are reported semi-
annually. This accounting system, however, is of little assistance in
providing information either to the Ministry or management for monitoring and
control of the operations of the enterprises. To provide management
information, PKP, ZWUS and ZNTKS operate internal accounting systems which
provide monthly reports on income and expenditure.
5.03 For accounting purposes, PKP is divided into two major divisions: (i)
transport division and (ii) support division. The transport division consists
of eight operating rail regions and a number of service units and institutes.
The support division consists of 72 affiliated units engaged in production,
construction and maintenance work on PKP's rail infrastructure, traction and
rolling stock. ZWUS and ZNTKS are two of the service units. Balance sheets
and income accounts are prepared annually for the transport division and for
each of the rail operating regions but as traffic income is accounted for
separately at headquarters, the regional accounts are basically expenditure
statements. All units within the service division have agreements covering
the price of their work for the transport division which are basically cost
plus prices (para. 5.08). This enables them to prepare separate balance
sheets and income accounts annually. All units reported a profit in 1987.
PKP's final annual accounts consist of a consolidated balance sheet and income
accounts summarizing the results of PKP transport division and the affiliated
units. In conjunction with the installation of the MIS (para. 3.10) provision
has been made in the terms of reference for the allocation of operating
revenue and expenditures to cost centers throughout the system which should
improve significantly the accounting information available to management for
cost control, tariff setting and economic analysis of the rail system. The
GDDP accounting system is satisfactory.



- 36 -
C. Tariffs. Subsidies and Transfer Prices
5.04 Studies to review tariffs are initiated by the MTME and undertaken by
officials of PKP. The studies were undertaken annually but with increasing
inflation two studies were undertaken in 1988. Three adjustments of passenger
tariffs and five adjustments in freight tariffs were made during the first
eleven months of 1989. The study group consults with the Ministries of
Finance and Transport on the major assumptions to be used (e.g., level of
inflation, rates of depreciation). Separate calculations are made for freight
and passenger tariffs. Direct costs, e.g., wages of train crews, fuel, etc.,
are allocated directly between freight and passenger services. Indirect or
common costs, e.g., depreciation of track, signals, etc., are allocated on the
basis of 35% passenger and 65% freight. This allocation is the result of an
in-depth study of costs undertaken in 1987. The study, which is updated every
three or four years, is very detailed, and provides an equitable allocation.
The tariff recommendations of the study group are usually accepted by MTME
without a detailed independent review. As this decision is one of the most
critical for the transport sector, the Bank has recommended in the TSM that
the Ministry develop the capacity to review these proposals in detail and from
time to time secure the assistance of independent consultants to undertake an
objective evaluation of the tariffs.
5.05 MTME is authorized to adjust tariffs but informal discussions are held
with the Ministry of Finance before revised tariffs are implemented. MTME and
not PKP issues new tariff schedules.  Freight tariffs are set to give PKP an
81 profit on costs.  PKP is a public carrier and so must accept all traffic
offered at the published tariffs. However, recently PKP has been authorized
to negotiate special discounts with customers that forward the major part of
their freight by rail. With the recent acceleration of inflation in Poland,
it is essential that tariffs be adjusted frequently, in line with inflation to
ensure PKP financial viability.  During negotiations agreement was reached
with the Government and PKP that tariffs will be adjusted in line with
inflation plus the necessary increase to meet the agreed operating ratios at
least four times per annum on the first day of each quarter, in accordance
with a formula satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.01).
5.06 In conjunction with the adjustment of tariffs, the subsidy level for
passenger services is established. The subsidy is established to include a 6%
profit for PKP based on costs.  The standard passenger tariff level has
generally been established at below cost. In addition, there is a whole
series of discounts, authorized in most cases by Parliament, accorded to
various groups (civil servants, students, workers, etc.).  To compensate PKP
for the difference between the projected cost of the services including the 6%
profit and the projected revenue based on approved tariffs, a subsidy is paid
monthly by the Government. The amount of this subsidy is calculated as a
percentage of PKP's projected revenue based on the approved tariff level. The
subsidy level for 1988 was ZL 214 for every ZL 100 collected from passengers
which was reduced to ZL 189 for every ZL 100 at the beginning of 1989. The
total operating and capital contributions from the Government during the three
years 1986-88 was as follows:



- 37 -
Table 5.1: Passenger Subsidies gaid to PKP
1986        1987         1988
(Current ZL Billion)
Operating Subsidy for Passenger Services  102.6         101.0        209.8
Contribution/Equity for Investment           23.7        27.0         18.5
Tax Rebate for Investment                     6.7        18.2         39.3
Total                                       133.0       146.2        267.6
(Constant December 1988 ZL billion)
Total                                       321.6       279.1        347.1
US$ million equivalentb/                    643         558          694
-4/ Estimate.
h/ Based on the mid 1988 rate of exchange US$1 - ZL 500.
The operating subsidies represented about 15% of PKP's total revenue for 1988
and 1986 and 12% for 1987. Operating subsidies as a percentage of passenger
revenue were about 200% in 1988, 170% in 1987 and 240% in 1986. As PKP's debt
is marginal, it did not receive a hidden subsidy in the form of debt
devaluation unlike most other state enterprises. However, the current level
of passenger subsidy is very high, particularly in view of the Government's
financial constraints.   To reduce this burden on the budget, there are
provisions in the project (para. 3.18 (iii)) that the Government and PKP will
take appropriate actions including adjustment of tariffs to reduce PKP's
operating ratio excluding compensation from the 1988 level of about 105 (para
5.09) to not more than 104 for 1991, 102 for 1992 and 100 for 1993 onwards
based on annual revaluation of assets acceptable to the Bank. To ensure that
PKP generates sufficient revenue to meet its operating costs and investment
requirements, the project also provides (para. 3.18 (iii)) that the operating
ratio including compensation be maintained at not more than 90 for 1991
onwards. This latter ratio is in line with past performance and will require
the Government to contribute an operating subsidy of about 10% of total
revenue compared to the current rate of about 15%. These requirements are
projected to reduce the passenger operating subsidy from ZL272 billion in 1988
to ZL 183 billion in 1993 (December 1988 price level).
5.07 The present practice of providing a 6% profit on operating costs as part
of the passenger operating subsidy (para 5.04) tends to reward, instead of
penalize, the high cost producer. In addition, as the base tariff level is
set below cost, all passenger services operated by PKP are subsidized. Such
across-the-board subsidies cannot be justified on economic or social grounds.



- 38 -
To prepare options for the Government to reduce subsidies and to equitably
allocate subsidy payments, a study will be carried out by Ministry of Finance,
MTME and PKP (para. 3.18 (iii)).
5.08 The units affiliated to PKP (para. 2.01) operate as semi-autonomous
financial entities. As most of their work is undertaken for PKP their income
is based on mutually agreed transfer prices. With the increase in inflation
in recent years, these prices are often renegotiated and have become de facto
cost plus prices. To improve the transfer pricing in the current non-market
conditions, and to gradually increase the autonomy of these units, the
procurement arrangements between the units in th.L PKP group should, where
possible, be based on competitive bidding. This aspect is included in the
elaboration of a strategy for its relationship with the affiliated urLits that
PKP will produce (para. 3.13). Because of current shortages, PKP takes the
major part of ZWUS' and ZNTKS' output (paras. 5.12 and 5.14). To enhance the
efficiency of these units, agreement was reached that they develop their own
marketing services and markets for their productions.
D.  Past Financial Performance
PKP
5.09 The financial statements for PKP for the three years 1986 through 1988
are shown in Annex 12. PKP's operating results during this period were
satisfactory in the context of European railways with an operating ratio
including subsidies ranging from 86 to 93. The operating ratio, excluding
subsidies for passenger services, ranged from 101 to 106. The amount of the
operating subsidy doubled in current terms from ZL 103 billion in 1986 to ZL
210 billion in 1988 and represented about 15X of PKP's total revenue in 1988.
However, the real increase in subsidy after taking inflation into account
represents only an 8% increase over this period. No subsidies are provided
for freight services. PKP's rate of return on average net fixed assets was
about 4% in 1987 and 7% in 1986 and 1988. Fixed assets were revalued in 1988
(para. 5.10). While PKPs rate of return is low, it is favorable compared with
the results of most European railways.
5.10 During the two year period ending December 31, 1988 PKP traffic
increased by 2.4%. PKP's revenue increased by about 10% in real terms during
the same period, however, this was more than offset by a 12% real increase in
working expenses, which would indicate that the railway costs were rising more
rapidly than the general producer price index. Material costs rose by about
5% but wage costs rose by 13% and maintenance costs by 18%, all in real terms.
Assets were revalued by 88% as of December 31, 1988, and the charge for
depreciation was adjusted for 1988 by increasing the depreciation rates by
88%. The revaluation index represents about one-third of the increase in the
Producer Price Index between January 1983, the date of the last revaluation,
and December 1988. PKP's overall depreciation rate of about 2.7% is low.
This is due in part to the fact that a substantial part of PKP's traction and
rolling stock has been fully depreciated but is still in operation.



- 39 -
5.11 In addition to meeting debt service obligations, PKP's internal cash
generation of ZL 336 billion provided about 72% of its capital investment
during the three years 1986-88. The balance of the funds required was
obtained by local borrowing (13%) and Government contributions for passenger
equipment (15%). The Government capital contribution of about ZL 70 billion
was equivalent to about 80% of the tax on profits from freight services paid
by PKP during the period. PKP's debt service coverage ranged from 4 in 1987
to 9 in 1988. PKP's debt equity ratio of 2:98 as of December 1988 is very low
and has resulted from the Government's policy on subsidy payments and tariffs
and, to a lesser extent, the Government contribution to investment for
passenger equipment. PKP's major finance problem during the past decade was a
shortage of convertible foreign exchange. PKP was authorized to acquire
foreign exchange at the official rate to meet its clearing house obligations
for transport costs to other railway companies. The amount of foreign
exchange available for other purposes, however, was very limited. As a result
PKP experienced considerable difficulties in securing appropriate materials,
equipment and spare parts to maintain the system. This almost complete lack
of foreign exchange, and not a general lack of funds or technical expertise,
has been the major cause of PKP's maintenance and operating problems and, in
addition, has substantially increased maintenance costs.
5.12 The financial statements for ZWUS for the three years 1986 through 1988
are in Annex 13. About 60% of ZWUS's output during the last three years was
sold to PKP, 30% to other Polish organizations, principally local authorities,
and about 10% exported. Net profit on sales averaged about 22%. This
resulted in a rate of return on average net fixed assets ranging from 40% in
1986 to 61% in 1988. Fixed assets were revalued in 1988 by 88% in line with
the Government's instructions but this was substantially less than inflation
since the last revaluation in 1983 (para 5.10). Therefore, the results, while
appearing very high, are in reality reasonable, allowing for the fact that
fixed assets are undervalued and depreciation understated.
5.13 ZWUS's sales increased by about 100% in current zlotys during the period
1986-1988 to ZL 8.2 billion but the increase in real terms was only about 6%.
Total working expenses in real terms, however, remained stable which resulted
in an increase in profitability during the period. ZWUS's internal cash
generation after debt service of ZL 0.377 billion financed about 90% of its
investment program of ZL 0.431 billion during the period. The balance of
ZWUS's requirements was financed by short-term borrowing. It had no long-term
debt in its balance as of December 31, 1988. ZWUS paid about ZL 1.7 billion
or about 43% of its net profit in taxes to the Government, 16% was paid as a
bonus to workers and the balance of 41X was retained.
ZNTKS
5.14 ZNTKS's financial statements for the three years 1986-1988 are in Annex
14. About 761 of ZNTKS's sales were purchased by PKP, 18% sold to other
Polish organizations and 6% exported. ZNTKS's profit on sales was about 17%,



v 40 -
and its rate of return on average net fixed assets was about 40%. However, if
the revaluation undertaken in December 1988 had been in line with inflation
(para 5.10) the assets value would have doubled, thereby halving the rate of
return. The resulting rate of return of over 20X is still satisfactory even
if depreciation charges were understated during the period.
5.15 ZNTKS's sales doubled in current zlotys terms to about ZL 6.7 billion
but increased by about 10% in real terms during the period 1986-88 to Z1 8.7
billion.   Working expenses increased by about 7% in real terms, thereby
increasing ZNTKS's level of profitability. ZNTKS's internal cash generation
during the three year period of ZL 1.4 billion financed about 75% of its
investment program of ZL 1.9 billion during the period. The balance of 25% of
the investment funds were borrowed.   ZNTKS paid about 45% of its net profit
of ZL 2.5 billion during the period in taxes to the Government, 13% was paid
in staff bonuses, and the balance of 42% was retained. Debt service coverage
was 5 times in 1988 and the debt equity ratio of 1:99 as of December 31, 1989,
giving ZNTKS a strong financial base.
General Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP)
5.16 The GDDP depends on Government budget allocations to finance its
operations. The General Directo ate's expenditure for the three years 1986-88
is shown in Table 9. During the period GDDP's budget increased by about 90%
to ZL 189 billion in 1988, howc er, in real terms the budget has remained
static at about ZL 245 billioi in December 1989 price levels. About 50% of
the GDDP's funds were spent on routine maintenance and about 30% on
reconstruction of roads and bridges. The balance of funds of 20% was invested
in construction of new highways and motorways.
E. Forecast Financial Performance
5.17 With the current high level of inflation and major political changes
underway in Poland, it is difficult to predict inflation within a reasonable
degree of accuracy during the next few years. All the financial forecasts
have, therefore, been prepared in constant end December 1988 Zlotys. An
exchange rate of ZL 2,000 to the US dollar (the same as for the economic
evaluation) was used in the base case forecasts for conversion of the
project's foreign exchange costs and the Bank's loan to Zlotys. This rate is
four times the official exchange rate as of December 1988 of ZL 500 to the US
dollar as it was considered that the former rate better reflected economic
realities. All references to Zlotys in the remainder of this chapter are to
constant end December 1988 Zlotys unless otherwise stated. A real positive
interest rate of 5% p.a. was assumed for Bank funds to PKP and 7.5% p.a. for
Bank funds to ZWUS and ZNTKS. The interest on local loans was projected at 5X
p.a. also in real terms. No estimates of the effects of future major
restructuring of the economy on the cost structure of PKP were made but
provision was made for tariffs to be adjusted four times per year to ensure
PKP's financial viability under the present uncertain economic conditions
(para 5.05).



- 41 -
5.18 The forecast financial statements for PKP for the nine years 1989-97 are
shown in Annex 12. The projections are based on traffic remaining at the 1988
level during the projected period (para 2.08). Expenditure on maintenance,
particularly track maintenance, is expected to increase during the next five
years to bring the level up to required standards. In addition, reductions in
operating expenses resulting from increased labor productivity, improved
operations and closure of unecontomic lines are projected, giving an overall
modest net annual reduction in working expenses of about 0.5% commencing in
1992. With an increased level of depreciation resulting from a higher rate of
3.31 compared to the historical 2.7X and increased investment, overall
operating expenses are expected to increase marginally. A substantial
increase in real interest payments has been forecast due to a projected higher
level of borrowing and the implementation of positive real interest rates. In
1989, a law2 was enacted which provided for the Government from January 1,
1990 to pay 50X of PKP's investment in permanent way to assist PKP in
providing passenger service. During negotiations confirmation was received
that funds provided under this law will be paid in lieu of existing subsidies
and will not be additional.
5.19 Under the loan requirements (para. 5.06) PKP is to maintain an operating
ratio including compensation of 90 from 1990 onwards and achieve an operating
ratio excluding compensation of 105 in 1990 falling to 104 in 1991, 102 in
1992 and 100 from 1993 onwards. To meet this reduction in the level of
subsidies (para 5.04), subsidy payments are projected to decrease by 30% from
ZL 262 billion in 1990 to ZL 183 billion in 1993. Passenger tariffs are
assumed to increase by about 16X in real terms and freight tariffs by 6% as
part of a program to reduce the level of subsidies and maintain the proposed
ratios during the project period.
5.20 Based on the above assumptions, PKP's rate of return is projected to
fall from about 71 in 1988 to about 51 in 1995 due mainly to a revaluation of
assets, an increase in investments and the increased rate of depreciation.
The debt service coverage is projected to range from 9 to 12 during the
project period and fall to 3 in 1996 when the repayment of project loans are
scheduled to commence. Debt equity ratio is projected to change from 2:98 in
1988 to 14:86 in 1996. PKP's overall projected financial position is
satisfactory. To reduce the burden on the Government's budget, the
projections were based on PKP borrowing all its external funds requirements
with no equity investment from the Government. As PKP can clearly meet its
debt service requirements on borrowed funds, during negotiations agreement was
reached that the Government will not contribute equity to PKP unless the debt
equity ratio exceeds 20:80. To enable PKP to meet its foreign debt service
obligation and secure essential spare parts and equipment, PKP will be granted
full access to the foreign exchange market in line with other commercial
I Act of April 27, 1989: "PKP Polish State Railways".



- 42 -
firms. This should allow PKP to initially invite bids on selected items of
equipment and to gradually reduce the present monopoly of its affiliated
units. This is an essential element in the restructuring of PKP and its
affiliated units. A debt coverage of not less than 1.3 was agreed (para.
6.01).
5.21 A sensitivity analysis using the official exchange rate of US$1.0 - ZL
500 was also undertaken. As the Bank project forms a small percentage (132)
of PKP's investment program and as PKP has very limited direct access to
foreign exchange income, the effect of the change is marginal except that the
debt service coverage in 1996 would improve from 3.3 to 5.0.
5.22 A summary of PKP's anticipated sources and application of funds for the
project implementation period 1990-95 is shown below.
Table 5.2: PKP Financing Plan 1990-95
Sources of Funds                     ZL  Billions  USS Million     X
(Constant end 1988 prices)
Gross Internal Cash Generation        1,536.7      768.4        81
Less Debt Service                    158.4       7L.          8
Net Internal Cash Generation          1,378.3      689.2        73
Grants                                 50.0       25.0         3
Loans: IBRD Loan - PKP Transport    196.6         98.3w       10
- ZWUS               35.0       17.5         2
- ZNTKS              13.4        6.7         1
Other loans                           227.8      113.9        11
1901.1      950.6       100
Allocation of Funds
Project Investment                      293.5      146.8!/      15
Other Investment                      1,569.3      784.7        83
Increase in Working Capital              38.3       19.2         2
1.901.1      250.6       100
Note: Exchange rate used was US$1.00 - ZL 2,000
A/ The difference of US$18.95 million between the proposed Bank loan of
US$117.25 million and US$98.3 million represents price contingencies.
bi The difference of US$28.95 million between the proposed project investment
of US$175.75 million and US$146.8 million represents price contingencies.
In keeping with PKP's past finance performance the major part -- 73X -- of its
investment requirements of ZL 1,901 billion equivalent should be provided by
internal cash generation. Grants paid in 1990 should provide 32. The



- 43 -
proposed IBRD loan to PKP (Transport) of ZL 196.6 billion will provide 10 and
the IBRD loans for ZWUS and ZNTKS of ZL 48.4 billion will provide an
additional 31. The balance of the requirements of 141 should be provided by
local loans.
5.23 The forecast financial statements for ZUUS for the nine years 1989-97
are shown in Annex 13. The projections are based on a gradual increase in
output to achieve an overall increase of about 60X over the nine year period.
The proposed investment during the project period 1990-95 of about ZL 44
billion will replace only part of ZWUS fixed assets in physical terms. Over
851 of this investment consists of imported machinery and this, together with
the high exchange rate assumed (para. 5.17) and the undervaluation o' existing
assets, resulted in a eightfold increase in ZWUS's net fixed assets value
during the project period from ZL 4.6 billion to ZL 42.6 billions. This major
increase in fixed assets coupled with an increase in the depreciation rate
from about 2.61 in 1988 to 41 used in the projections would result in a fall
in ZrWUS's rate of return on average net fixed from about 611 in 1988 to a
projected rate of about 8X in 1995. In addition, ZWUS debt/equity ratio would
increase to 72:18 and debt service coverage would fall to 0.4 in 1994.
Therefore, to ensure a viable financial structure for ZWUS it was assumed in
preparing the base forecasts that the price of ZlUS's output would be
increased in real terms by 331 in 1992. This results in a percentage net
profit on sales of about 331, about 401 higher than the level during the three
years 1986-89. The rate of return on average net fixed assets ranges from 23Z
to 841 during the project construction period and averages about 211 after the
project is compled. The debt service coverage in 1994, the first year for
full debt service, is 1.1 and increases to 1.4 in 1997. The debt/equity ratio
in 1994 is projected at 49:51 but to improve rapidly to 27:73 by 1997.
5.24 At present ZWUS is the sole supplier of signal equipment to PKP so there
would be no problem in increasing prices by 331 in real terms to cover costs.
However, to test the assumption that ZWUS could secure the necessary revenues
in a competitive environment, a sensitivity analysis was undertaken. First
ZWUS's export sales revenues were converted using the assumed exchange rate
for investments of US$1.00 - ZL 2,000. This resulted in increasing ZWUS's net
profit as a percentage of sales from 331 to about 701. The range of rates of
return on average net fixed assets would increase to 431-1011. Debt service
coverage 1994 would increase from 1.1 to 2.2 and the debt/equity by 1996 would
fall to 35:65. Secondly, the official exchange rate as of December 1988 of
US$1.00   ZL 500 was used to convert the project cost to Zlotys.  This
resulted in the projected percentage profit on sales for ZWUS ranging from 272
to 441, rates of return on average net fixed assets of 651 to 951, a debt
service coverage of 4.3 in 1994 and a debt/equity ratio of 19:81. The base
forecasts are calculated using conservative assumptions to confirm that ZWUS
would be financially viable in an unstable economic environment where major
devaluation, inflation and restructuring are foreseen before a new economic
equilibrium can be established. ZWUS's actual results should lie somewhere
between the projected base case and the two other options. The assumption on
price increases is also justified based on the substantially higher prices
charged for the equipment exported by ZlUS and the prices for equipment



- 44 -
supplied to PKP. To ensure that ZWUS maintains a sound financial position,
during negotiations agreement was reached that ZWUS will maintain a rate of
return of not less than 16% on average net fixed assets revalued annually
before additional investments in excess of DM 200,000 equivalent can be
undertaken (para. 6.01). A debt service coverage of not less than 1.3 was
also be agreed (para. 6.01). The financial rate of return (FRR) calculated on
an incremental cost and reserve basis is 18.9% but as the major part of the
investment is to replace existing machinery, the overall FRR is substantially
higher than this figure.
5.25 A summary of ZWUS's anticipated sources and application of funds for the
project implementation period Is shown below.
Table 5.3: ZWUS Financing Plan 1990-95
Sources of Funds                     ZL billion   US million      X
(constant end 1988 Prices)
Gross Internal Cash Generation           33.5         16.7        64
Less Debt Service                      15.9          i9         30
Net Internal Cash Generation             17.6          8.8        34
IBRD Loan                                35.0        1Z.5!1       66
Total Sources                         52.6        26.3        100
AnDlication of Funds
Project Investment                       40.0        20.0!/       76
Other Investment                          4.0          2.0         8
Increase/Decrease in Working Capital      X.          4.3         16
Total Application                     52.6        26.3        100
Note:  Exchange rate used was US$1.00   ZL 2,000.
a/ The difference of US$2.5 million between the propcsed Bank loan of
US$20.0 million and US$17.5 million represents price contingencies.
b/ The difference of US$2.8 million between the proposed project investment
of US$22.8 million and US$20.0 million represents price contirgencies.
As the proposed annual investment during the project period is many times
higher than ZWUS's recent investment, ZWUS's net internal cash generation of
ZL 18 billion (US$9 million) will finance 34X of its financial requirement
compared to about 90% in recent years (para. 5.13). The Bank loan will
provide the balance of funds of 66X. About 76% of ZWUS's funds will be
invested in the project with an additional 8% invested in other works. The
increase in working capital, ZL 9.0 billion, represents 16% of funds.



- 45
ZNTKSi
5.26 The forecast financial statements for ZNTKS for the nine years 1989-97
are shown in Annex 14. The projections are based on a gradual increase in
output which results in an overall increase in output of about 35% over the
nine year period. To maintain ZNTKS financial viability a real increase in
prices of 5% in 1994 was assumed. The real increase in prices is justified,
as in the case of ZWUS, based on the differences in prices paid by PKP and the
prices received by ZNTKS for equipment exported (para. 5.24). The project
investment of ZL 15.5 billion will increase ZNTKS's net fixed asset value by
about 200%. In making the financial forecasts, depreciation was calculated at
5.3% compared with the 3.01 used in recent years. In spite of the
conservative assumption used in the financial forecasts and the substantial
increase in borrowing, ZNTKS should be financially viable with a 5% real
increase in sale prices.
5.27 ZNTKS's percentage profit on sales is forecast to average about 141
during the project period, about 31 lower than in recent years. The rate of
return on average net fixed assets is projected to range between 15% and 281
and averaging about 21% during the period 1990-97. Debt service coverage in
1994, the first year of repayments, is forecast at 1.0 rising to 1.3 in 1997
and the debt equity ratio at 49:51. These results are satisfactory except
that the debt service is very low. However, as the projections are based on
very conservative assumptions, the actual results are likely to be
substantially better. If export sales were calculated using US$1.00 - ZL
2,000, the percentage profit on sales would increase to an average of about
381 and the rate of return on average net fixed assets would range from 32% to
651. Debt service coverage would increase to 1.5 in 1994 and the debt equity
ratio would decrease to 32:68. If the official exchange rate of US$1.00 - ZL
500 was assumed for conversion of the project's foreign exchange cost to
Zlotys, the profit as a percentage of sales would be 191, rates on return on
average net fixed assets would average 35%, the debt service coverage in 1994
would be 2.6 and the debt equity ratio would be 36:64. As in the case of ZWUS
the actual results should lie somewhere between the base case projected
results and the two other options. To ensure that ZNTKS maintains a sound
financial position, during negotiations agreement was reached that ZNTKS will
maintain an annual rate of return on average net fixed assets revalued
annually of not less than 161 before additional investments in excess of DM
200,000 equivalent can be undertaken (para. 6.03). A debt service coverage of
net less than 1.3 was also agreed (para. 6.03). The FRR calculated on an
incremental cost and revenue bases on the base case is 5.3% but if export
sales were calculated using US$1.00 - ZL 2,000, the FRR would be 92.41. As
the major part of the investment is to replace existing machinery the FRR
evaluated on the above two bases would be considerably higher.
5.28 A summarv of ZNTKS's projected sources and application of funds for the
project period is shown below.



- 46 -
Table 5.4: ZNTKS Financing Plan 1990-95
Sources of Funda                      ZL billign    USS million  X
(constant end 1988 prices)
Gross Internal Cash Generation           11.7         5.8        65
Less Debt Service                      i.s          3.5        39
Net Internal Cash Generation              4.7         2.3        26
IBRD Loan                              13.          6.7        74
Total Sources                          18.1         9.0       100
Aoplication of Funds
Project Cost                             15.5         7.8!/      86
Other Investments                         1.1         0.6         6
Increase in Net Working Capital          1.5          0.6         8
Total Application                     18.1         9.0       100
Note:  Exchange rate used was US$1.00   ZL 2,000.
a/ The difference of US$1.05 million between the nroposed Bank loan of
US$7.75 million and US$6.7 million represents price contingencies.
b/ The difference of US$1.2 million between the proposed project investment
of US$9.0 million and US$7.8 million represents price contingencies.
As the level of investment during the project period will increase
substantially compared with past investment levels, ZNTKs net internal cash
generation as a percentage of its investment requirements will fall from about
75% prior to 1989 to about 262. The Bank l_an will provide the other 74% of
requirements. About 862 of the funds will be required for project financing
and 6% for other investments. The balance of 8% will be required for
increasing working capital.



- 47 -
VI. AGREEMENTS RECHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01 During loan negotiations agreements were reached with the Borrowers on
the following:
(i)   a program of closure of uneconomic railway lines and stations
(para. 3.18 (ii));
(ii)  review and discussion of transport sector investment programs
(para. 3.18 (iii));
(iii) PKP physical and financial performance, subsidy payment method and
tariff adjustments (para. 3.18 (iv));
(iv)  carrying out of studies, the findings of which to be discussed
with the Bank (paras. 3.12, 3.13 and 3.18 (v));
(v)   satisfactory environmental protection measures (para. 3.41);
(vi) ZNKTS' and ZWUS' marketing arrangements (para 5.08);
(vii) PKP financing and debt coverage (para. 5.20);
(viii) ZWUS rate of return and debt service coverage (para. 5.24);
(ix) ZNTKS rate of return and debt service coverage (para. 5.27).
(x)   agreement with the Bank on terms of reference for the Procurement
Unit (para. 3.31).
6.02  The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(i)   establishment of the Coordinating and Monitoring organization and
appointment of its officers (both loans) (para. 3.26);
(ii)  effectiveness of the EIB loan (para. 3.23).
6.03 Based on the above agreements the project is suitable for two Bank loans
totalling US$153 million for a period of 17 years including five years of
grace.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
POIAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Management and Performance of ZWUS
Statute of the Company
1.    ZWUS is a fully-owned subsidiary of PKP.  For administrative purposes,
it is under the control of the Ministry of Transport, but reports through
PKP's General Manager. For all technical purposes, the GM of ZWUS takes
orders from the Director of the Department of Automatics and
Telecommunications (DAT) in PKP's general headquarters. It has a Board of
Directors appointed by the Minister of Transport. This Board is a part-time
board and has the Director of DAT as an ex-officio member. ZWUS also has a
Workers Council elected by the staff.
2.    By decree, the Company is expected to be run on a "fully self-supporting
basis". Its investment and developmental activities are subject to the
policies laid down by PKP's general management. Funding for investments and
modernization comes mostly from internal cash generation. ZWUS is authorized
to borrow for its capital investment and working capital needs.
Management and Staffing Structure
3.    ZWUS is managed by a full-time General Manager, assisted by two
deputies, one for technical matters and the other for economic and financial
management. There is an Accountant General, who is equal in rank to the
deputies and is in charge of the accounting and internal audit functions.
4.    In addition to full-fledged design and data-processing centers at its
headquarters in Katowice, it has three main production facilities: (i)
electric and electronic signalling at Katowice; (ii) electromechanical
equipment at Zory; and (iii) system design, production and testing at Rybnik.
Each of these factories is technically autonomous under its own manager, but
the over-all managerial control of finances, staffing and other corporate
strategy is provided by the GM of ZWUS. These three factories have a total
staffing of 2400, of which 100 have engineering qualifications. This does not
include 2500 staff employed by the signalling construction companies for field
work.



- 49 -
Page 2 of 3
Corporate Obiectives
5.    Nominally, ZWUS has the freedom to design its own corporate plan but its
unique position as a feeder industry to PKP to supply equipment and spare
parts for its signalling systems places it, simultaneously, in a monopsonic
and monopolistic position. This is a single most important determinant which
shapes the entire corporate strategy of ZWUS. In return for this hostage
status, ZWUS is able to negotiate its prices on a 'cost plus' basis with PKP.
6.    Technical Management of ZWUS and in particular its production program is
influenced by PKP's annual forecast of its capital investments and maintenance
needs. During the last three years, ZWUS's production was sold to three
principal customers: 60% to PKP, 30X to Polish industry other than PKP and
about lCZ exported. Export sales relate mainly to ZWUS's production line
for relays which has been installed and operating under licenseV from
Ericcson's of Sweden. Because of the price advantage' of production in
Poland, Ericcson buys back about 40,000 relays or about 12X of ZWUS's relay
production capacity. ZWUS is unable to step up its exports, because its
present capacity is not sufficient to meet PKP's project needs even at current
levels of investment. The present World Bank aided project has therefore two
objectives:
(a)   increase the capacity for production of conventional signalling
equipment; and
(b)   develop new capacity for electronic signalling equipment like axle
counters, computerized CTC and dispatching, automated controls for
MYs etc.
7.    In Financial Management, ZWUS is mandated to provide a positive return
on capital from its operations. ZWUS can raise its working capital by
borrowing from Banks and other external financial institutions. ZWUS is
responsible to cover its depreciation and development needs by incorporating
them in the prices charged to PKP for goods and services. ZWUS enjoys
autonomy in its export/import functions, foreign collaboration etc. Part of
the foreign exchange earnings from exports can be retained by ZWUS.
8.    In Personnel Management, ZWUS is expected to conform to nationally
legislated pay scales and regulate the staffing in order to fulfill its
financial obligation to earn an agreed return on fixed assets. ZWUS is
obliged (i) to give its employees all the perquisites and privileges enjoyed
by PKP's mainstream staff and (ii) to provide social benefits like housing,
house building advances etc. to its staff in line with PKP's current policies.
JJ Licensing agreement lasted from 1972 to 1982. Now ZWUS i3 free to export
its products without an.y limitation whatsoever.
,V Point machines are sold at $1400 in the international market while ZWUS's
price is $710.



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
The level is considerably above the level of industry in general.
Industrial Climate
9.    ZWUS operates in an industrial climate which is governed by Government's
labor policies and PKP's practices in the domain. The workers participate in
ZWUS's management in two ways through the ZWUS delegates meeting and the
Workers Council. They have the right to express their views on all matters
concerning ZWUS's activities with no exception and are authorized to undertake
initiatives and submit proposals.
Financial Performance
10.   During the last three years, ZWUS's net profit on sales averaged 22%,
which yielded a rate of return on net fixed assets ranging from 40% in 1986 to
61% in 1988. Fixed assets were revalued in 1988 by 88% in line with
Government policy.
11.   Between 1986 and 1988, ZWUS's sales increased by about 100% in current
terms, and by about 5% in real terms. However, working expenses remained
stationary and resulted in higher profitability. ZWUS's internal cash
generation after debt service, about ZL 377 million (or US$750,000 equivalent)
financed about 90X of its investment program. However, these investments were
in the nature of arrears of maintenance and were far below the level needed to
increase production volumes or open up a more modern range of products. In
short, ZWUS has not invested in equipping itself to meet the demands of PKP
and the market in general, in both these aspects. This conservative
investment policy was the result of the lack of foreign exchange needed to
modernize its facilities. While technically ZWUS's production lagged behind,
the unintended benefit was that it had no long term debt as of December 31,
1988. ZWUS paid ZL 1.7 billion or about 43% of its net profit in taxes to the
Government, 16% as bonus to workers and retained the balance of 41%.
12.   The future financial strategy for ZWUS is linked closely to the proposed
World Bank aided project. In return for a projected investment of about ZL 40
billion, output will increase by 45% in nine years. Coeval with the increase
in its net fixed assets from ZL 4.5 billion to 42.6 billion, its depreciation
will increase from a presently understated 2.6% in 1988 to a more reasonable
41 in the future. The projected annual rate of return on net fixed assets
should average at 58% for the next five years but fall to about 20% from 1995
onwards. The debt service coverage will be 1.4 in 1997. In addition, the
project would help to raise the export percentage from the current 10% of
production to 20% of ZWUS's projected output.
Proiect Inputs
13.   The Bank project is focused on the improvement of ZWUS's machinery,
electronic instrumentation and the introduction of new technology needed for
axle counters etc. The inputs would be localized to two out of the three
production facilities: Katowice and Zory.



.  .  .                                       .                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Attachmient to  Annex 1
*~~~~~eeo A                                                              t9rollt U9 Equipn;en~
*                                                /{bCp;\                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ PIonufItLarin9 Works
v - 
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- I'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t . .*. 



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Management and Performance of ZNTKS
Legal Status and Role of the ComRany
1.    As of July 1982, the Polish Government passed a decree consolidating
most railway industrial establishments within "Polish State Railways" or PKP.
Till then, most of the workshops, set up to serve the local or regional needs,
existed as separate units.
2.    ZNTKS or the "Enterprise for the repair of rolling stock at Stargard"
had, in addition to the traditional role of maintenance of rolling stock, a
facility for the production and maintenance of Track Maintenance Machines
(TMM).  The Bank has recommended that PKP resort to a higher level of
specialization in its workshops. In line with this recommendation, ZNTKS will
give up a substantial portion of its rolling stock maintenance to other
workshops (Bydgoszcz) and focus on the manufacture and maintenance of track
maintenance machines (TMMs).
3.    This company is constituted as an autonomous profit center under PKP
which is the holding company. The management of ZNTKS reports to the DG of
PKP on all technical and operational matters and through him to the Ministry
of Transport on major administrative matters. The GM of ZNTKS, assisted by
one deputy, is in charge of the management of the facility. They are
appointed by the DG of PKP (Organization in Attachment II).
Management and ManRower Structure
4.    ZNTKS is managed by a GM and a deputy and five heads of departments,
engineering, economics including finance, production, accounting and
administration. The facility has five main general areas of specialization,
power hydraulics, electronic systems, structural welding and construction,
protective coatings and regeneration of parts - each of which is managed by a
specialist works manager.
5.    It is estimated that the demand for ZNTKS's TMMs products in 1995 will
require a labor input of 1.1 million man hours or about 850 workers at current
levels of productivity. However, the new high-output machines, tighter time-
work norms, modern management techniques and the automation of the work
stations are expected to reduce this labor force to 480 workers. At present,
there are 288 workers engaged in wagon repair. However, with the progressive



- 53 -
ANEX 2
Page 2 of 2
reduction of the wagon repair and ancillary activities, it is anticipated that
144 workers will be redeployed in TMMs, leaving a shortfall of some 50
workers.
Market for ZNTKS
6.    Currently, ZNTKS is manufacturing low-productivity track tamping
machines which meet part of PKP's requirements. But with increasing axle
loads and speeds carried by the tracks, the desirability of manual maintenance
drops sharply and mechanization becomes a necessity. With the older type of
machines, the track occupation time per unit of work is significant and needs
drastic reduction in order not to consume valuable line capacity. With these
objectives, PKP has been progressively increasing the level of mechanization
from a deployed power of 0.24 kW per km per year in 1960 to 4.7 kW/km in 1985.
Studies have shown that even at current levels of mechanisation, the number of
speed restrictions, arrears of ballast and sleeper renewal will continue to
increase unless PKP's machine fleet is increased to 9kW/km in 1995.
Accordingly, the machines needed for adequate track maintenance in 1995 is
given in Attachment I. (This could vary from year to year). The list of
investments needed to equip ZNTKS to be able to produce this or an equivalent
list of machines with a different composition is given in Annex 4C.
Financial Performance
7.    About 80X of ZNTKS' sales are to PKP, about 15% to Polish industry and
5% exported. ZNTKS' net profit on sales usually is about 17%. Its rate of
return on average net fixed assets is about 40%. ZNTKS' sales doubled in
current Zlotis between 1986 and 1988 but increased by only 10% in real terms.
During the same period, working expenses rose by some 7% in real terms,
increasing profitability. ZNTKS' internal cash generation, during this three
year period, was ZL 1.4 billion, which financed about 75% of its investments
in this period. The balance of 25% of the investment funds were borrowed.
ZNTK paid about 45% of its net profit as taxes to the government, 13% as staff
bonuses and retained the balance of 42%. Debt service coverage was 5 times in
1988. Debt-equity ratio was 1.99. Thus ZNTK's financial base is sound.
8.    During the next nine years, ZNTKS is expected to raise the value of its
annual production by about 35%. The project investment of ZL 15.5 billion
will increase its net fixed assets by about 200%. In future, depreciation
will have to be calculated at 5.31 instead of the 3% used in recent years. As
a result of the proposed investment, ZNTKS' return on net fixed assets is
expected to average about 21% during the ensuing nine years. Debt service
coverage will be 1.3 in 1997 and debt-equity ratio 49:51. ZNTKS' net internal
cash generation will cover about 34% of its investment needs and the rest will
be provided by the Bank loan. The financial future of ZNTKS appears to be as
sound as it has been in the past.
polsaran.2



- 54 -
Annex 2
Attachment I
POLAND
Staff Appraisal Report
First Transport Project
Standard Production and Maintenance Program of Star.ard Track Machine Factory
A.    Manufacture                                 Planned 1995 Production Volume
1.    Track cleaner                                           7
2.    Track screening train                                   3
3.    Snow Plough                                             4
4.    Track weeding machine                                    1
5.    Track formation-bench former                            9
6.    Turnout ballast cleaner                                 10
7.    Track tamper                                            12
8.    Turnout tamper                                          10
9.    Drainage excavator                                      3
10.   Draisine                                                40
11.   Universal breakstone scraper                            7
12.   Snow-cutting - blowing remover                          18
13.   Track tamper                                            13
14.   Narrow gauge snow plough                                10
15.   Engine car trailer                                      40
16    Track laying set                                        50
Annual
B.    Repair and Maintenance Workload             No. of Pieces of Eguipment
Maintained
1.    Track cleaner                                           24
2.    Train for track screening                               4+2
3.    Snow plough                                             8
4.    Track welding machine                                    3
5.    Subgrade Bench former                                   10
6.    Snow removing combine                                   6
7.    Ballast scraper                                         15
8.    Draisine                                                50
9.    Track laying set                                        90
10.   Universal ballast scraper                               5
11.   Ballast cleaner                                         3
12.   Turnout cleaner                                         2
13.   Ditch Excavator                                         2
14.   Snow-cutting - blowing remover                          8
15.   Snow-plough- narrow gauge                               3
C.    Auxiliarv Workload
1.    Repair of tank cars                                     3,000
2.    Production of spare parts                   4% of production capacity



SCHENAT ORAN      AM              PKP ZNITK Sltqarqid   2.7i |
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pp . 
/z-m~ .V.     -t .*ow  G
lo      SF Cd1a   ii Nu   lIZ 1f eI
I :9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
1"1F 91>>t'  .. lElE.St F        Me1t1 W1>+~~~N 
ZATWIERDZlk
me~q 1987-fl                                          WV            /~J~
9ww                                                       W Czub1stt i41 , 



- 56 -
ANEX 3
Page 1 of 4
POLAND
Staff Arnraisal Rewort
First Transport Project
Reorganization of PKP Workshops for Increased
Sgecialization and Higher Productivity
A.    Locomotive Maintenance
1.    Currently, PKP's electric traction fleet is maintained in five
workshops: GLIWICE, OLESNIGA, MINSK MAZOWIECKI, LUBAN, and GDANSK. These
five workshops deal with all the aspects of repair and maintenance of electric
locomotives. As a result, there is a substantial duplication of equipment
requirements and spare parts. As all the locomotives are of east
European/Polish origin, PKP has set up a system of self-manufacture of
essential spare parts. Production of other spare parts has been farmed out to
local industry. The dis.ribution of responsibility for the manufacture of
spare parts and repair of defective units removed from locomotives follows
traditional patterns.
2.    This spread of repair tasks and production activity over five workshops
leads to severe economic inefficiencies and militates against development of
specialized skills. Consequently the present reorganization of workshop
activities in PKP has as one of its objectives the introduction of a large
measure of specialization.
3.    As a first step, the number of traction motor repair workshops designed
to handle major scheduled repairs was reduced from five to three: - Gliwice,
Olesnica and Minsk. The other two, Gdansk and Luban would give up traction
motor repairs. This has resulted in an optimum scaling of the proposed
investments. In short, the three workshops selected for modernization will
meet PKP's full requirements of repaired traction motors for current
maintenance and buffer stock.
4.    Simultaneously, certain repetitive repair tasks have been allocated to
each of these workshops as their area of specialized responsibility, as shown
below:
GLIWICE
(i) Traction Motor Gears
(ii) Suspension gears and spring



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
MIES
(i) Commutators
(ii) General rail car repairs
(iii) Scharfenberg couplers
(iv) All rubber components
OLESNIC
(i) Bronze castings
However, as PKP has a very large fleet of elec-locomotives and over 40X of all
failures are traction-motor-related, it was considered necessary to strengthen
the rewinding, insulation and impregnation of traction motors in all three
workshops. Assembly and body work would also be handled by all three
workshops.
5.    PKP has other smaller workshops at Radom, Pruszkow, Nowry Sacz, Poznan,
Pila, Raciborz, Wroclaw and Lapy. There are several purely mechanical tasks
which have been centralized in these workshops, so that the lines of
accountability are made clear. A few of the significant task allocations are
as follows:
WROCLAW
(i) Instrumentation for casting industry
(ii) Hardening of wheel tires
LAPY
(i) Wheel turning and profiling
(ii) Tire changing
PILA
(i) Pneumatic tools
POZNAN
(i) Piston rings for diesel engines
(i) Oil seals
Ni)lu SACZ
(i) Aluminum pistons and castings



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
PUZKOW
(i) High grade cast iron castings
RADO
(i) Lubricant fittings
(ii) Braking system
This degree of functional specialization helps the efficient production of
small spare parts for maintenance on their respective areas of expertise.
Benefits of Sgecialization and Modernization:
6.    The cost of certain key repair operations are expected to drop from
present levels by substantial percentages:
(i)  Traction motor rotor balancing            -   20%
(ii)  Auxiliary machines-rotor balancing        -   50%
(iii)  Welding of rotor windings                  -   66%
(iv) Milling of commutator segment insulation  -   50X
(v)  Motor rewinding and reinsulation          -   30%
7.    The modernization involving the use of new materials and production
process is expected to reduce the nunber of locomotive failures by 602 and
increase the availability by 3 to 42. The intervals between annual,
intermediate and major overhauls are expected to increase by 18 to 25%.
B.    Rolling Stock Maintenance
8.    PKP's freight wagon fleet generates a repair/overhaul work load of about
55,000 cars p.a. Most of the repairs relate to body damage, which is the
single most important reason for the spillage of coal from coal wagons and the
resulting contamination of the ballast bed and the degradation of track
geometry. Because it is uneconomical to handle body repairs on a piece-work
basis in 10 workshops and several yard repair facilities, PKP decided to set
up a large modular repair facility in BYDGOSZCZ to handle all body repair jobs
on a production line basis. The wagon body is segmented into standardized
modules and the damaged segments are replaced. It is proposed to equip this
workshop with specialized equipment in order to concentrate all body repairs
here.
9.    The single most important (in volume terms) spare part needed for
rolling stock maintenance is the brake block. PKP manufactures 90% of its
brake blocks in various workshops and the balance is procured from polish
industry. Outside purchase has been consistently 10-15% costlier and the
supplies have been delayed and erratic. PKP has therefore decided to
centralize its brake block manufacturing in Bydgoszcz workshop by installing
automatic molding machines. These specialized machines would raise the annual



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
output from 34,000 tons to 40,000 tons. With the concentration of modular
repairs and brake block production in this workshop, nearly 80% of the mean
time to repair of a PKP wagon would be spent in this workshop, which shows the
degree of specialization of this workshop.
Benefits of specialization in freight car maintenance
10.   It is estimated that the modular repair facility would enable PKP to
raise the availability of freight cars by about 8% and reduce loss of coal
spillage by about 90% from present levels. The cost of wagon body repairs is
expected to be reduced by about 15%.
11.   The centralization of brake block manufacture is expected to increase
wagon availability by about 2%.
pob&ran3



*  -60-
STAPP WPMS*AL 38960
9131  TINAUU  PIN=K
919 va"Mam 1vW1
ot=tPlrtc         unt?       22N  GLSIiIUI      221  OULSICL    Du2   PINU             to
OF0 ~214Ig             93tic.5        ...... . .....                       .....*...
01?.     cowl    @11.    cm         01        CM?    *TV.
uainm mm n 
£43003 ini WI 2
I .8~o Utuw.vtfOIEI)    6440         1   4166AN0                          6          
*  ~ ~ ~ ~       stw~~~~~        WI           I   aiNS           I   9Sm           I   AMS 
aj.m'~~ 4.,tg           USo=         I   gIO            I        6l       I      U 
74.10  h~Its  9w  iaat. 9010a0       6        I 361005 1  360
Lh*  m       I0   cm           a a
uiolgSow    8 51                               2
tu   dwts *tWa *-*r-A  - -----
1o.Caww  S em          ~~9310        1   9310          1   93W0                9310         3
I IJue. vlw wv1ifw clmw        131005        1   150           1  13on.  1o    106                  S
13.8im d mp fr n          amawus                          3280 a"as                          i
13.VaiggaweimM. Pla    600                   450           1  1 450           1  14500          3
14a_elss m   ~.ws"              a m                            2 °               a  °613 °
i5peggem,g-      t1w viewa     93a           6     t12                                IV= 18
as  A? 5i0  *.    -a...    *..n    *00     ..       C.e.o   ~~~........
3u.wm     ' dUIS    U9 a 2"0                                   I         o        o        o        2
O *F. 0V1A    1 # 111010 s
t,S |_ |                  *      n       *n        fl *@     1        1      * t     90
Lam. emit an0                                             Ce *00  0 
3l  .. .                 1. .  000         1 ............. . 0...



-61-.
ANNEX 4B
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
lb
Track Maintenance Machines to be Financed Under the Prolect
Machine                         Quantity        Esated
(US$ m.)
1.  Continuous track tamping machine             8            8.8
(09 CMS or equivalent)
2.  Dynamic Stabilizer (DGS-62N or equivalent)  8             7.2
3. Turnout tamping machine (275-35 or            4            4.6
equivalent
Total Base Cost                     20.60



- 62 -
Annex 4C
First Trmanort Project
Staff Annraisal Regort
MachLnes and Eguibment to ke Procured for ZNTKS/StarEard
A.    Numerical control center-chuck lathes                       3
B.    Killing machines for spline ways                            2
C.    Spline grinder                                             1
D.    Lathes and Killing machines
E.    Wire Drawing machine for internal splines                  1
F.    Gauging stand with universal gauging device                1
G.    Hilling machine - numerically controlled                    1
H.    Automatic lathe (NC)                                        1
I.    Deephole drilling earth - auger                            2
J.    Power hydraulics: compressor and distribution system        1
K.    Electronic measuring instruments                            1 lot
L.    Welding robot                                              1
M.    Blanking press (NC)                                         1
N.    General tools and instruments                              1 lot
wp:d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 63 -
STAl APlRaSSAL tORT                               ANNEX 4D
fRST ToAmSlOaT PRWJC?
List @7 uuuuWbo  an. oquaemmne tfo  Wus              Page 1 of 3
Wykie. mamayn I urzdom
Qty    Total
Lo*    Wymzoamg6lninUb~Wert di
kpld /tyaa/
...dbm                               mmmmmmI.  .a.om  
1,  InjaeoUft molOng MChist              a         3280,0
a.  Znjeoti.ES moadi  ambos              a        340,0
WtiewhMk
3e  Thivet LathI                        3          9630
Tokarke gausiarmu
4,  Avtoseatt  turrt lthOs              a          6220
Tkokefl r.u lao    automat
so  Wander                              12        324,0
Sauljerk.
6,  auiwtift meoUffi                    a          1,00
Nitomt1ee
7.  al"ootto spark  uttong ambs                   200
Wyoear  drutow
s.    ril inage                         20t        ao,o
3.dnoetke wierterke
go  Autotte asblest for uttnl           I         12000
and bending
Auomat do myliramamia 019gI4
10o  Automati drilUin   Nd milling       1        300.0
Automat ul.rtrstk.u.fraaarak
II    leotreplatin9 oguipusft
Urdu .do obrM*l galwaftlznsj       I        1)7,0
S2.  Th.r8msreutr for njootl0on         4           6
Uorngdae    do trerostotumie
fore mtuwkouycb
*  S   Cobs" for dri  ad                3            3.0
tranportastin of petios.e.
Urqdinmi do acomeule I 'ram- 
pertomamie tusruyu
14.   bums.p trmtmamt dobbs             a0o,O
U3 aaaia doe ocyeamozn"I
~~~1.ku.~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~ - _



- 64 -3
_2o  Reders and point ,ochime .
UriAmn ham um  .I ne
1.  Peieo lathe                          4
Tokarke Proc"v3na
2.  NC lathe                              i        Zio,
Tokorko aterwfem nua.ayznio
3.  Mahoining contre                              770,00
Contrus obrdbaze
4.  NC verticl mlUlng mehin               a       400.0
frarka pionanl mterow.numer.
,  Send ow  for Mals                     2 a      1100
Pite tdaim   do Matel
.XX.  Station Inte rookinge                         anU2
Uadmgmni setavin.
1.   ednoetke viertarek2                           26,0
DrillAng unit
2.  Xojeotaon moulding main..            2        340*0
Wtryekorka
3.  Jring machie for pb                  I            o
Wiorterke do pltk drukownah
4,  Turrtt lathe                         1         26,0
Tokmke rew ens
So  Pl1n  and treeng machine             i         2,0
ftrugork - kopiprka
1.  Opticl drilling  ahim                           9.0
Wiertarke optcne
2.  Wearke do plytek drkee.              a I      1320
NO drtSlng Machine fso pob
3.  Laomtlng machin                                2
La"mintor                           12,
4.  Odbelpi  Machine                     I         52,0
9.  Stripping ahie                       1         47,0
6.   igulpeent for tinain  of pb         s        is,0
Uzdacaaa do cynomas°V    plytak
7Y   Brosg amabhis                       I         , 0
8NEltk*6                                l       
Suoabrk 



^ 65-
ANNEX 4D
f 3
so  rooo.puter equipment for
desegning the pob.                               ai"s.O
MOkrokoawmterae. un:dbonio do
pcojekt@aat p&ytOk drukoaanyoh
V. IMj=
MCL#AdIpwniA
la Tool grinder                            2         160.0
Slfifwrke nerzgdeiow
. Cylindrical grnder                       I0,0
8 fllft k  do wek4w
3. uaibero tool grlnder                    £         40,0
unswara..zlJfsarko..estrxamke
49 Unirersla profle grinder.               I         i',0
UnisersoexlIfteike do prafli
S. UsIbormol troaing grinder               I        113;0
UawreasfSferke kopierk
6G  Unibroel tool mlliAng and              2        160.0
borigmcie
Uniwro.f rwaorko-ierterks
nora.
7* Proliotn jig drilling nachino           1        155sO
pre   jowiertarka vmp6&rxgm
dnadlouoi  f     l t
6. ToolL horizontel borlng msabin          1         30,0
Wiereateref rwxerke neragdvAoue
VI. Uqiprnm  for iron end elA,inie                 230,O
fowndrf
Y I I
Toes&
*olout                    to00o
Ouae                                              *f.



- 66 -
Annex 4E
POLA
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REOR
Equipmont and Services for G,DP
Unit              - USS 000's ------
Items                         Number   Costs      Local    Foreign   Total
US$
l.Pavmnt= H0ansoen=
1. Falling Weight Deflectometer   6    110,000                 660        660
2. Bump Integrator                  3     83,300               250        250
3. Weigh in Notion Recorder and
classifier                    6      50,000               300        300
4. Vehicle Counter/Classifier    26        9,230               240        240
5. Continuous Skid Resistance
Test Vehicle                  1    150,000                150        150
6. High speed skidometer           1    100,000                100        100
7. Reflectometers                  2'    15,000                 30         30
8. Data Storage and Processing                                 100        100
devices
9. Software                                                     20         20
10. Local Costs for towing
vehicles.
220                220
11. Spare Parts & Supplies                                      130        130
12. Technical Assistance and
Training                                                   90         90
1. Sub Total:                              220    2070       2290
2. Lao  tSX J UUtM
13. Electronic Balances              50     3,000               150        150
Compression Testing Equipment:
14.  0-200KM                         17     8,115               138        138
15.  0-2000KM                        17     8,115               138        138
16. Nuclear Density N/C              17     1,200               204        204
2. Sub Total:                                      630        630
Base Cost                                           220    2700       2920
Physical Contingencies                               20      110        130
Price Contingencies                                  20      390       410
Grand Total                                         260    3200       3460
AtW



- 67 -
ANNEX% 5
Page 1 of 6
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Study of PKP Operating Management Information System (011)
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.    Polish Railways (PKP) have designed an Operating Management Information
System to be implemented according to a phased program. To back up this
system, they have designed a cable network, a substantial portion of which has
been installed and the rest is under construction. At present, there exists a
limited computer network to serve PKP's data collection needs, both at the
headquarters level and the regional level. This network is designed to gather
data with three objectives in view (i) personnel management; (ii) ex gost
facto compilation of statistics; and (iii) some financial monitoring. Though
the cable network is well designed to suit the specific needs of PKP as a
transport enterprise, neither the computer system nor tha software is adapted
to use the computer as a tool dissemination of information on a real time
basis and resulting for management decisions both of which are essential if
PKP has to compete aggressively in the emerging free market and deliver high
quality products to its customers.
B. MIS Needs of PKP
Phase I Reauirements
2.    PKP, by virtue of its unique geographical location, plays an important
role in international transit traffic of both passengers and freight. For the
efficient management of this traffic and in order to provide a high quality
service to overseas customers PKP has to adapt and hook up its OMIS to the
European Railways'operating data interchange system, HERMES being set up by
the International Union of Railways (UIC). The ticketing and way billing
services have to be of the same basic design as the rest of Europe so that a
customer from convertible currency areas encounters no impediments in dealing
with or transiting through Poland. PKP has a considerable internal traffic of
its own. The OMIS should, in addition to interfacing with HERMES, provide PKP
with real-time data processing for efficient management of the whole railway
system. Wagon control, wagon location, train ordering and monitoring,
locomotive movement control etc should all be performed by the national
segment of the data processing system.



- 68-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
3.    In short, PKP's corporate management needs information services under
four main categories given below:
(i)   Ogerating Management Module:  the operating manager's focus on
traffic performance of yesterday and forward planning for today,
tomorrow, this week, and the next week etc; wagon and locomotive
movements control; monitoring the performance of all movements at
the regional and railway-wide levels.
(ii)  General Management Module:  real time and periodical reviews of
institutional performance, primarily in the financial, traffic and
commercial areas; "what if" questions by the managers on the most
economical means of obtaining the required financial and operating
results should be answered;
(iii) Commercial Management Module:  the commercial managers's reviews
of the guality and profitability of each service to enable him to
make rational decisions about tariff revisions, marketing
strategies, allocation of resources depending upon the
profitability of the services concerned, etc;
(iv)  Financial Module:  the financial manager's requirement to
computerize accounting information in such a way that basic
revenue and cost data are gathered and allocated faithfully to the
appropriate heads of account in order to provide information to
the managers to evaluate the profit ability/efficiency of each
cost centre; it should be possible for the managers to have enough
data on the financial performance of each unit so that the new
standards of financial accountability and competitiveness in a
free-market environment are rigorously applied to evaluate them
and to take appropriate corrective measures; in this phase, the
reorganization of the existing functional accounting system into a
management accounting system in addition to serving as the basis
for tariff structures is the objective; installation of a full-
fledged cost accounting will follow in the next phase.
4.    The operating data and revenue statistics needed for these tasks are
best obtained from the data recorded and maintained at the operating work
centers like the wagon originating stations, interchange points, marshalling
yards, etc.  These data should, in future, be gathered from an electronic way-
billing system (EWB) for freight and an electronic ticketing system for
passengers to be installed. The study should evaluate the existing way-
billing and ticketing system and propose methods to convert them into
electronically generated documents to serve as direct-access data sources for
t'ne system. From the EWB system, it should be possible to track down the
load, destination, name of client, nature of the load of each wagon and
through the wagon number, its movement, the delays its suffered on route, the
trains by which it was sent, the Marshalling yards (MYs) through which it
transited etc. The software needed for the EWB system and linking it to the
OMIS are among the first steps. A similar effort in the electronic generation



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 6
of accounting data at the various expenditure centres and linking with the
computerized accounting system should also be undertaken.
5.    Individual managers should be provided with some analytical tools and
management aids. Special purpose softwares, some of which exist in PC
versions should be provided. The Train Performance (TP) Model and the Line
Capacity (LP) Model are two examples. The T.P. model should be able to
construct ideal paths for trains, calculate the effect of speed restrictions,
curves, gradients etc. on train performance and serve as a tool for designing
timetables, calculating locomotive horse powers, forming long, heavy trains,
etc. The LP model should provide answers to questions like: can I add one
more train to this already congested route, if I add a freight train, what
will be the impact on the other trains, etc. These packages should be cpaable
of handling all common operating questions based on "what if I do this or
that" type of formulation. The study should propose such management utilities
and integrate them into the system.
Phase II Reauirements
6.    In Phase I, only the most urgent and essential data processing
functions, which would be needed by PKP to compete effectively in a free
market environment and to integrate itself into the unified European rail
network of 1992 and beyond, should be undertaken. PKP's other important data
processing needs which are to be covered in Phase II are: (i) a full-fledged
cost-accounting module; (ii) a materials management and inventory control
module; (iii) a track maintenance module (iv) a locomotive and wagon
maintenance module; (v) a signalling and telecom performance module. The cost
accounting module should have close linkages with the marketing and commercial
module installed in Phase I. This comprehensive cost-accounting system should
be capable of determining the cost of operating certain traffic streams or
transporting a wagon load between given points on the system. It should be
possible to derive long-term and short-term marginal costs, average costs,
fixed costs etc attributable to any particular stream of traffic on any given
section of the network. The Financial Management Module installed in Phase II
should be designed to ensure that it can be integrated into the Phase I module
without any major modification. However, the consultant could propose other
variants for the comDosition of Phases I and II. which would be considered in
the meeting under Stage It (para. 8).
C.  Obiectives of the Study
7.    The present study has the following principal objectives:
(i)   carry out a diagnogtic of the present system of data processing in
PKP, including the coding structure of the data processing
methods, way bill and ticketing, financial, cost accounting,
general management information and the reliability of the ground
level data collection and recording techniques; make
recommendations, if any, for the introduction of the new system;



- 70 -
ANNEX S
Page 4 of 6
(ii)  review the existing telecommunication network, its capacity and
speed, and the protocols adopted;
(iii) prepare a broad master-Rlan for OMIS for PKP, designed in a
modular fashion, in which Phase I will be implemented first and
other modules later, without disturbing the overall design;
(iv)  carry out a Rreliminarv engineering for the OMIS system, Phase I
of which will be able to meet the operating and management
requirements of PKP described above (paras. 2 to 5), keeping as
much as possible of the existing equipment to the extent it is
technically and economically justified;
(v)   prepare bid specifications for (a) the railway specific software;
(b) the new hardware; (c) the supplementary adaptive hardware to
make the existing environment compatible with the new; (d) the
networking equipment necessary for interlinking the various
terminals to form several local area networks (LANs) based on
institutional needs and for linking the LANs to the regional
centres; linking the regional centres with the headquarters and
with the Hermes system; these specifications should be (1) broad-
based enough to permit competitive bidding and (2) consistent with
COCOM stipulations;
(vi)  evaluation of PKP's staff numbers and their skills in the area of
information systems and the design of a suitable revised staffing
and training Rro&rams;
(vii) preparation of TQgs for a follow-up study to cover Phase II.
D. Methodology
8.    The Study is to be completed in three stages.
Stage I.    The consulting firm selected for the study should visit PKP
and study the existing system starting from data collection and entry to the
final stages of processing and reporting; the current tasks which are
performed on the system and the efficiency with which they are performed.
This stage is expected to last 3 weeks. The consultant should submit a brief
diagnostic report 2 weeks after the field work is completed. The diagnostic
report should highlight the deficiencies of the present system and explain how
these deficiencies affect current operational and financial performance.
Stag2 II. The consulting firm should depute a senior MIS expert,
preferably one who has participated in Stage I, to organize a study tour for a
team of about 5 to 10 of PKP's high-level executives. PKP's team should be
drawn from the: (i) operating department; (ii) commercial department; (iii)
accounting department; (iv) information technology department and (v)
telecommunications department. This guide consultant (GC) has to put together



- 71 -
ANNE S
Page 5 of 6
a cost-effective study tour lasting not more than 6 weeks to cover the
information systems in the following railways: (i) USA (2 railways eg:
Southern Pacific and Burlington Northern); (ii) Canada (both Canadian National
and Canadian Pacific); (iii) U.K.; (iv) Germany; and (v) France.
Understandably, all these railways may not be able to make detailed
presentations. The G.C. should spend at least 30X of the time each week
during the study tour in the field making focussed presentations to the PKP
team on the functional and design features of the systems seen each week and
their relative merits. The G.C. should maintain detailed notes of all his
observations, comments and the points discussed during the presentations. On
return to Warsaw, he should spend a week discussing with the Polish team the
major findings of the study tour, the relative merits of the various system
and their relevance to the Polish context. He should enable the Polish team
to make guided and enlightened decisions on the key -features, the parameters
and the shape and configuration of PKP's master plan for OMIS. A clear and
detailed definition of the scope and content of Phase I should emerge out of
this master plan. Three weeks after his return to Warsaw, the consultants
should submit to PKP management (i) a manual containing all the salient
features of the several systems with all their key technical data; this manual
will serve as training material for other PKP officers who have not gone on
the study tour; (ii) a draft decision paper setting forth (a) the proposed
master plan, with explanations of the options considered and the reasons for
the choices made; the design parameters should be spelt out clearly; (b) how
the various requirements of PKP for a modern OMIS will be fulfilled by the
proposed system; (c) an explanation of how the system will be compatibile with
the Hermes system; and (d) a clarificatory note on its conformity with the
COCOM requirements. This draft paper will be defended by the consultant's
team in a technical meeting consisting of PKP management, the World Bank's
mission and possibly, an independent consultant. The comments and conclusions
emerging from this meeting should be noted by the consultant, based on which,
he will carry out Stage III.
State III
9.    Eight weeks after this meeting, the consultant should submit his final
draft report which should include the following sections.
Section I.        Elaboration of the Final Master Plan
Section II.       System Design and System Engineering with particular
reference to Phase I.
Section III.      Technical Specifications separately for Software,
Hardware, Networking equipment and Protocol/interface
equipment. This section should confirm the mutual
compatibility of all these groups of items, the
overall fulfillment of COCOM regulations and the
capability of the system to fulfill PKP's objectives
and expectations.



- 72 -
Page 6 of 6
Section IV.       Action Plan with a calendar of actions to be taken by
PKP, so that, before the receipt of international bids
and the choice of the supplier, PKP can complete all
preparatory measures in terms of coordination within
PKP and with the Hermes organization and other
adjacent railways. This action plan should also
contain actions to be taken such as construction of
rooms at various sites, arrangements for power supply,
air conditioning, etc.
Section V.        An audit of PKP's staff in the information services
department, and their current skills based on which, a
training program for them should be prepared. This
training program should cover the training needed
before the new system is installed.
Section IV.       A detailed strategy and a step by step implementation
plan for Phase I: TORs for the next phase of study.
This report will be discussed between PKP management
and the World Bank and comments communicated to the
consultants for revision and preparation of a final
report.
Note: The consultant would be requested to assist in meeting with COCOM
authorities and justifying his proposals in order to speed up their approval.
Consultant's Staff Resources
10.   It is estimated that the diagnostic work (Stage I) would need 10 staff
weeks. The study tour and the preparation of the Manual and the Draft
Decision Report (Stage II) would require 10 staff weeks. Stage III which
consists principally of report writing should be carried out in the
consultant's home base and should require 20 staff weeks. Thus, the total
staff requirements is estimated to be about 40 staff weeks or 10 staff months.
The total duration of the study should be coordinated in such a way that the
final draft report is submitted not later than 25 weeks after the beginning of
the study.
11.   All reports should be in English and should be submitted to PKP in 6
copies. The final report after Stage I'. will have to be corrected on the
basis of the comments of PKP and the Bank and final versions submitted 2 weeks
after the receipt of comments.
polsaran.5



- 73 -
Page 1 of 2
FOU)LND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ILONG-TERM LOCOMOTV  DESIN AMM MAINTENANC  PRACTICS
TERMS OE REERC
INTRODUM
1.    Poland, along with Italy, Spain. and Belgium, is one of the few
countries which have not converted their traction systems from DC 3000 V to AC
50 Hz. Polish railways (PKP) have an electrified network of about 13,000 kms
and a fleet of nearly 2,000 locomotives. The large size of the system and the
heavy cost of conversion appear to remove the conversion option out of the
realms of feasibility, at least in the medium term. Economic pragmatism
points to the need of upgrading the efficiency of the existing system by
making improvements in locomotive design and workshop management practices, in
line with those developed by railways like Italy, which have demonstrated the
feasibility of this approach. They have achieved significant extensions
between successive maintenance operations and have thus reduced locomotive
down time. This study aims to help PKP profit from these experiences abroad.
OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY
2.   This study has two major objectives:  (A) oper2tional; and (B)
institutional.
3.   The operational objectives consist of:
(i)   an examination of the design deficiencies of PKP's locomotives;
(ii) a review of the recent trends of locomotive and traction motor
design and an analysis of the possibility of their adoption in
PUP;
(iii) a cross-sectional view of maintenance facilities, equipment and
practices in vogue in other railways which have attained higher
levels of availability and workshop productivity;
(iv) preparation of a comprehensive locomotive maintenance policy in
PIP for the next ten years; this report should cover:
(a)   mprovements in locomotive design;



- 74 -
Page 2 of 2
(b)   improvements of workshop facilities and management; and
(c)   a coherent investment program for the next five years which
would lead to clearly defined operating goals.
4.    The institutional objectives aim to:
(i)   provide PKP's engineers a hands-on understanding of the recent
advances in locomotive design and maintenance outside Poland;
(ii) lead them through a guided exercise in the evaluation of the
technologies and methods in use in other railways; and
(iii) enable them to adapt the lessons learnt from these exogenous
sources to their local conditions. With this experience they
should actively participate in the definition of the new corporate
philosophy of locomotive management.
5.   Three railways with advanced locomotive designs and maintenance
standards will be chosen. The design and consultancy wings of these railways
will be requested to prepare a visit and training program for a hand picked
group of PKP engineers. The course would be put together by the "host"
railway with lectures, demonstrations, and field trips, all of them
specifically focussed on specific aspects of design and maintenance which they
could identify as their centers of excellence. The proposals of these
railways would be evaluated in detail before the agreement to start is
declared. These courses would be organized and orchestrated by two groups of
experts drawn from the 'host' railway, one group from their research and
design organizations to provide the practical dimension. The courses would be
followed by an adaptation phase in which the host railway's and PKP's teams
write a report of principal lessons which could be adopted by PXP. The
consulting wing of the 'host" railway will be responsible to prepare the
report in its draft final shape.
polsaran.6



- 75
Page 1 of 2
,POIANiID
STAFF APPRAXSAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJEGI
Rationalization of Train Formation and Di a2tLDhing
Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.    PKP, which currently carries nearly 60X of Poland's total traffic, is
being suddenly exposed to a more competitive and open market environment as a
consequence of the liberalisation of the economy in general. Inevitably,
rapid developments in other modes are bound to follow, making deep dents into
PKP's market share. PKP's short haul traffic will probably be affected most,
while even long distance freight and passenger traffics will also be affected,
though to a lesser degree. Apart from structural changes, PKP would have to
reduce its costs and resort to innovative techniques to raise the quality of
its service in order not to suffer heavy shocks from the on-going deregulatary
trends. A significant example of an area where improvements are needed is the
delay of 2 to 3 weeks suffered by transit traffic flowing across the country.
Unless quality indicators like delays, punctuality, custoaer convenience, etc.
are upgraded, PKP would find it difficult to meet the new challenge. Other
railways have gone through a similar adjustment phase when confronted by de-
regulation of the market. PKP should organise itself better to face the
deregulated market and maximize its gains.
Objectives of the Studv
2.    The present study will review the current traffic pattern, and the
commodity flows by origin and destination and assess the strengths and
weaknesses of the linkages between each particular traffic flow and PKP's
service quality. Based on this review, the study will aim to:
(i) estimate the volume and type of traffics which will continue with
PIP on the strength of the economic advantages which rail has to
offer vts-a-vis other competing modes, and also those traffics
which will escape to other modes; here, PP's amethod of gathering
and distributing '.ow-volume traffic from smell stations based on
the German Railways model need closer scrutiny in order to
establish its cost-effectiveness and economic desirability in the
Polish context;
(ii) establish a revised transport plan to reflect the changing role of
PKP, suitably phased to cover the transition period of 3 to 5



- 76 -
AMLZ
Page 2 of 2
years, a stabilisation period of next 3 to 5 years and a gradual
recovery period thereafter;
(iii) evaluate the role of Marshalling Yards (MY) and regional wagon
grouping centers in the revised and evolving transport plan,
mainly with a view to route wagons from origin to destination in
the minimum time at minimum cost;
(iv)  make a broad d&cv*r,mination of the capacity needed for each MY and
define thereaft;r, its approximate size and its level of
development (in terms of facilities) in order to discharge its
role effectively; the developmental design should be modular in
conception so that progressive build-up or scaling down would be
possible; the technical solution adopted in the first instance.
should be the bare essentials to handle current levels of traffic,
in view of the impending decline of PKP's market share.
Ut_hodolMg
3.    The study would consist of two phases:
Phase 1: A team of PKP operations and commercial managers in collaboration
with PKP's Central Economic Institute will undertake a study tour of one of
the railways which have faced the challenge of de-regulation successfully,
particularly the UK or the USA, and study the following aspects: (i) how low-
volume traffic is being handled; (ii) what is the role of MYs in traffic
management; (iii) what concrete massures have been taken to enable freight
trains to by-pass MYs; (iv) how the transit time of wagons from origin to
destination has been progressively reduced; (iv) how wagon detentions in MYs
are controlled;
Phase Il: The PKP team will return to Poland, review PKP's operations in the
light of the experience gathered in the study tour and establish the future
role and work load of MYs in PKP fulfilling all the objectives (para. 2) and
prepare modular technical plans for their future development.
ReBnrt   .-
4.   The resulting report will define a nev corporate strategy and a
transport plan based on the retention and development certain traffics for
which PKP has a comparative advantage and the elilmiation of the rest. The
report would also contain a clear section on the future development and
investments of MYs In W P.
polsaran.7



- 77
ANNE 
Page 1 of 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJLECT
Know-How Transfer to ZWUS and ZNTKS
In=rducti1U
1.    During appraisal, the means for procuring foreign know-how for ZWUS for
the manufacture of signalling equipment and for ZNTKS for track maintenance
machine manufacture were discussed. It was agreed that in order to enable
these companies to compete successfully in the export market, they needed
technical assistance in cost accounting, value engineering techniques for cost
reduction, and for marketing, in short, a dynamic management style in a free
market environment.
Tvnes of Technology Transfer
2.    There are several methods of technology transfer, ranging from outright
purchase of know-how to a comprehensive Joint Venture ( 1V) scheme in which the
know-how transferer installs, operates and manages the transferee's
enterprise. The options available are based on three determinants: (i) the
objectives to be achieved,--purely technical or technical and managerial; (ii)
the extent to which the transferer should have an impact on the management of
the company; and (iii) the modalities of payment for the know-how and other
services rendered.
Obiectives of Technolouy Transfer in PKP's Case
3. ZWUS, PKP's signalling equipment manufacturing unit is looking for know-
how in modern electronic signalling and computer controlled techniques. The
know-how supplier is expected to provide assistance in areas such as: (i)
technical assistance in the particular area of technology; (ii) trainlng of
ZWUSs staff; (iii) transfer of detaLled design drawings and specificatiois;
(iv) a list of special jigs and tools needed for the manufacture, which ZEUS
could procure from the international market or from recommended sources; and
(v) most importantly, management technical assistance combined with joint
participatory manageumut in which the foreign firms' managers study,
reKCo2end and set up modern managemnt methods in cost accounting, value
egineering, mrketing, etc.
4.   ZaTnS's ¢case is somewhat different.  It needs the know-how to
manufacture high efficiency track maintenance machines. It has a large-sized
machine shop with several multipurpose machines, saoe of which are being used
for rolling stock repairs. These subsidiary activities are to be phased out
and specialization introduced. ZNTRS has to mprove the quality of lts
hydraulic control equLpment, which holds the key to high-productiLvity in these
machins . Unlke ZWUS, ZNTXS needs the help of the forelgn partner to



- 78 -
* ~~~~~d  * 
Page 2 of 4
identify modern machine tools needed for the upgraded and specialized
production line. Apart from this additional input in the technical field, its
needs for technical assistance in the other areas of foreign collaboration are
similar to those of ZWUS. However, the significant feature in both cases is
that the foreign collaborator is required to identify the equipment, jigs and
tools needed and not to supply them. They will be procured largely through
ICB using the Bank loan.
Available Sources of Technology
5.    In the signalling field, the technology which ZWUS is looking for is
available from several sources in a number of countries.
6.    The supply of Track Maintenance machines is rather restricted as to
number of suppliers. This is particularly true in two specialized areas:
vibratory consolidation of ballast and tamping of turn outs. But there is a
whole range of common-user track machines like ballast cleaners, snow-ploughs,
draisines etc. which are available from reputed manufacturers on a wider
basis. One option in such a case is to obtain the know-how for the more
complicated and a comprehensive technical assistance package from one foreign
partner and enter into pure technical licensing arrangements for the simpler
machines from the most advantageous among the other suppliers.
Transferer's Influence on Enternrise Management
7.   An noted earlier, both ZUUS and ZNTXS now recognize the need to have
foreign assistance in several areas of managemuet. Very often, transferer of
high-tech know-how demand more than mere transfer of know-how, they ask for a
participation in the company's management, even though limited to certain
areas only, as they have concerns about quality, use of brand names, export
market share, etc. Whlle both enterprises are fit cases for progressive
privatization through an active JV program, at least in the short term, this
choice lies outside their management's competence and is for the MTNC to
decide. Until the broader issues of privatization and foreign partnership are
decided, these two companies do need to have, in-house, foreign experts
provided by the supplier to advise on and manage cost reduction, quality
control, market survey, pricing strategies, coimercialization, sales outside
Poland, etc. They wil also train their counterparts on the job. Th1ee
experts, one for teehnical trouble-shooting, one for costing and pricing and
the third one for commercial and marketing, will be in in-line positions for
about two to three yars.
8.   The foreign collaborator may seek a higher level of involvement in the
manageent of the enterprise through equity participation. While, in
principle, there should be no objection to such participation, this question
has not been discussed with PKP so far. Rowever, PKP's hesitation, if any,
should be alloyed by pointing out that such a partnership would provide a
stake in the enterprise for the supplier of know-how and thus make him
comitted to success of the project and eventually to buy back some of its
products. These enterprises would thus have an assured foreign morket even at
the outset.



- 79 -
Page 3 of 4
Modalities of Pa'ment
9.    It is necessary to make a distinction in the contractual arrangements
between renumeration for the transfer of designs and know-how, and payments
for technical assistance and consultancy services. The payments for these
services would follow standard practices adopted in consultancy contracts.
Payments would be on a man-month rate with agreed overheads for airfares,
travel, shipping of personal effects, liability for taxation, etc. Rates for
the training of local staff would figure separately. As an incentive to
maximize his learning during the understudy phase, the local counterpart
should receive a special allowance.
10. For technology transfer, there are a few options: (J) lump sum payment
up-front or in pro-identified stages; (ii) royalty payments with the rate of
royalty, period during which royalties are levied, taxes on royalties, etc.
defined clearly; or (iii) capitalization of the estimated know-how fees with
an annual dividend on capital to be paid; a provision to enable the transferee
to buy back the equity after a certain number of years may also be envisaged.
Admittedly, this equity would represent a small percentage, less than 0l of
the equity of ZWUS and ZNTKS. In the royalty payment system, as the royalty
is closely linked to the output and the imported content of the product, the
foreign collaborator would demand operation of the plant at maximum capacity.
This is a powerful influence on management to maximize its production from the
outset. On the other hand, the foreign partner is likely to slow down the
progressive decrease of the imported content of the product. These aspects
require precise formulation at the moment of contracting. In purely lump-sum,
once-for-all payments, the foreign partner has no stake in the continued
success of the enterprise. It is therefore not an ideal solution except for
simple technologies.
OrgaMizAtional Ogtions
11.   Where a certain measure of joint management control is vested in the
foreign partner, the organizational strategies are largely influenced by the
following factors: (i) the duration of joint management; (ii) the areas in
which the foreign partner has an influence on management policy; (iii) the
degree of risk to the respective partners; and (iv) the degree of convergence
of the interests of both the partners. In the cases of ZWUS and ZNTKS, as
both are interested in quick results and rapid stabilization of the now
operations, it would be bkoaficial to accept that some key policy questions be
subject to management collaboration. The details could be elaborated in the
agreement without prejudLce to the overall influence of the Polish Board of
Directors. If the management collaboration ia succssful, a follow-up period
of another two years may be euvisaged in which the collaborative process may
be transitioned into a consultative phase. By then, the internal management
should have grown In strength and independence and be able to relinquish
foreign support. It should be noted that the period of interdependence in
management need noc be the same as that for royalty payments.



- 80 -
Page 4 of 4
12. Management control by the Board of Directors should be implemented only
through standard reports: financial reports, progress reports, financial
audits, strategic plans, etc. and not by a set of prohibitions on the foreign
collaborator. In any case, the Board is free to call upon the Polish Managing
Director for a periodical "State of the Enterprise' evaluation report to
assess the efficiency of the collaboration and take broad corrective action,
as it becomes necessary.
Solection. Negotiation and Contractint
14.  The UNCTAD and the International Law Institute, an independent non-
profit entity devoted to complex problems of international trade policy have
established guidelines, practices and case studies for the benefit of agencies
like ZWUS and ZNTKS. Those guidelines include sample bid documents for the
invitation of proposals for the transfer of technology. These two enterprises
should nominate a panel of two or three of their senior staff to study these
documents and prepare themselves to make an evaluation of contending foreign
partners and thereafter to negotiate a contract.
polsaran.8



- 81 -
Annex 9
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
PKP Operating and Financial Targets
. ..... ..............._....
Index of Performance         1988     1989     1990     1991     1992      1993     1994     1995
,,,.,,.........,,,,....................  .. ..  ,.....  --,,--    ....  ----. ..--,--   ___  
OPERATIONAL TARGETS
Etectric Locomotive Ava    89.6       89.6    90.0    90.5       91.0      91.5    92.0    93.0
Electric Locomotive km.     387        390      400      410      440       470      500      510
Wagon Availability
(a) for the total wag    83.2       83.5     84.5     86.0     88.0     90.0      92.0     93.0
'b) for coal wagons o    83.7       84.0     85.0     87.0     89.0     92.0      93.0     94.0
Coal wasgon turnround (days)
Speed Restrictions
(a) Main Lines            650        650      650      600      550       500      450      400
Cb) Turnouts              310        350      350      350      350      330       300      250
Traffic Units per Eaplo   0.45        0.44     0.43     0.44     0.45      0.46     0.47     0.48
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Ope?atfng Ratio             105        105      105       104      102      10l   t00 oo      100io
(excluding subsidies)
Operating Ratio              99         90       90       90        90       90       90       90
(including subsidies)
1/ Further ixprovemmnts will be discussed in the Second Transport Project.
pol.sr"n9/lotus



- 82 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECa
Project Coordination and Monitoring
Introduction
1.    The First Transport Project has five main components which are to be
implemented by the following executing agencies: (i) the railway component
by PKP; (ii) the manufacture of track maintenance machines by ZNTKS; (iii)
the manufacture of 3ignalling equipment by ZWUS; (iv) the highway component by
the GDDP; and (v) studies relating to the transport sector by the MTNC. In
view of the multiplicity of project components and executing agencies, it is
essential to define the responsibilities for project coordination and
monitoring. The methodology described in this note is designed to achieve
these functions promptly and efficiently.
Organizational Arrangements
2.    At the apex level, the implementation of the project will be monitored
for the government by a unit consisting of a senior representative of the
NTNC, which could be the Director Engineering Policies and a representative of
the National Bank of Poland. All the executing agencies will report to this
unit through appropriate reports and periodical meetings, whose nature and
intervals shall be decided by the unit.
3.    In each of the executing agencies, the DG should nominate a working
group of technical managers who are directly responsible for the
implementation of the various project components. This group will be headed
by a representative of the general management, such as the Deputy DC.
Mgnitoring Process
4.    The working groups of the executing agencies should submit progress
reports to the apex unit at agreed intervals and in the manner mutually agreed
upon. Progress reports to the World Bank (WB) should be in the format
established during negotiations. These reports should be submitted directly
to the WB with a copy to the apex unit.
5.    All problems encountered during implementation, for which the solution
lies within Poland should be reported to the apex unit without delay and a
copy sent to the WB.  The apex unit is required to take suitable action with
due urgency and keep the WB informed. Problems for which the solution rests



- 83 -
A  A
Page 2 of 2
with the WB should be reported to the WB without delay and the apex unit kept
informed by appropriate means. The WB will take remedial action and inform
the Polish authorities.
Flow of Communications
6.    PolicX Issues. particularly those relating to the administration of the
loan will be addressed through communications between the WB and the Polish
Government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the MTNC
7.    Technical Issuues directly related to project implementation will be
addressed through telexes, letter, etc., between the WB and the particular
executing agency. A copy will be endorsed to the apex unit.
8.    Correspondence on Procurement Matters will be exchanged between the
general management of the executing agency and the WB. A copy will not be
eudorsed to the apex unit, unless there are reasons to keep it informed (e.g.
inordinate delay, differences of opinion of a fundamental nature, etc.). Each
executing agency should establish a Procurement Unit which should be directly
responsible for handling all procurement actions, such as the preparation of
bid documents, the invitation of bids, etc., up to the stage of final
signature of the contract. The constitution of the procurement unit, the
names of its members and their functions and responsibilities should be agreed
with WB.
9.    Disbursement Annlications shall be prepared by the executing agency in
such forms and with such attachments as required by the WB regulations, signed
by the person authorized to do so, as agreed during negotiations between the
WB and MTNC/PKP. These applications, in the case of the loan to Government,
will be sent to the MTNC for countersignature by the authorized person agreed
upon earlier. The applications will then be forwarded to the WB by MTNC and
PKP for making disbursements.



- 84 -
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST IRANSPORT PROJECT
St    of P1=P Passenger Subsidies
Draft Terms of Reference
1.   The standard passenger tariff level for PKP has generally been
established at below cost. In addition, there is a whole series of discounts
on these standard fares provided to various types of travelers (civil
servants, workers, students, etc.). To compensate PKP for the difference
between its operating costs of passenger services and the projected revenue
based on approved tariffs, an agreed operating subsidy is paid monthly by the
Government. The subsidy level for 1988 was ZL 214 for every ZL 100 collected
from passengers which was reduced to ZL 189 for every ZL 100 at the beginning
for 1989. The operating subsidy for 1988 was ZL 210 billion, ZL 101 billion
in 1987 and ZL 103 billion in 1986. These operating subsidies represent about
15% of PKP's total revenue for 1988 and 1986 and 12% for 1987. Operating
subsidy as a percentage of passenger revenue was about 200% in 1988, 170X in
1987 and 2402 in 1986. Substantial subsidies are also paid to the municipal
and regional road passenger services. To compete in the domestic market, LOT
also subsidizes its domestic services for surpluses earned on its foreign
services.
2.   The Government's economic policy is to establish a market economy in
Poland. Across the board subsidies are incompatible with this policy.
Therefore the objective of the study is to provide the Government with options
to reduce or eliminate rail passenger subsidies and restructuring of the
method of subsidy payments to ensure that subsidy payments are transparent,
equitable and economically sound. The study group should also make
recommendations on whether the proposed changes should be implemented in one
step or phased in ovar two to three years
3.   A study group might be established consisting of about six members: one
member from the KinWstry of Transport, one member from the Miniastry of
Finance, one member from one of the transport economic institutes and two
mebers from PKP -- one from passenger operations, one from the accounting and
finace department. The representative of the Ministry of Transport should
act as chairman. The representation from the transport economic institute
should be secretary and respousible for the detailed work of the study group.
Au external consultant to assist the study group if required should be
available.  The detailed investigation work should be undertaken by the
accounting staff of PRP under instructions of the study group. The study
group should also have available the services of staff of a transport economic



- 85 -
ANNME 11
Page 2 of 3
institute to undertake independent research for the study group and review the
data provided by PKP.
4.   The study group might work on the assumption that in view of the current
economic reform and the limited resources available to the Government,
passengers should pay the full cost of the services unless there are
compelling social equitable, economic or environmental reasons why the
Government should subsidize a service or class of passengers. For the
purposes of this study, they might also assume that future Government
subsidies for road passenger services, if any, will not discriminate in favor
of that mods. Also, that LOT will discontinue subsidizing domestic services.
In calculating the cost of services, the principle of relevant incremental or
long-term marginal cost should be used as a minimum. In the case of services
on main lines, an additional congestion charge might also be considered.
S.    The following methodology might be considered as a modus operandi
for the study:
A.    Review of present system of subsidies:
Mi)     Divide the present passenger system into homogeneous
components (e.g., intercity express services, other
intercity services, regional services, important conurbation
services such as Warsaw, Katowice, other services, etc.);
(Ui)     Allocate costs to passenger services for each component
based on direct and indirect costs and further analyze these
costs between fixed and variable;
(iii)      Identify revenue for each component and further analyze the
revenue by structure (standard fare, monthly tickets,
discount ticket, free tickets, first class and economy,
etc.); and
(iv)       Allocate the subsiddy to each component and subdivide it
between the groups of passengers using the services.
B.    Review the level and methods of subsidy paymnts in other countries.
C.    Prepare options for reduction of subsidies to PKP:
(i)     Scenarios miSght be prepared for each componskn. ranging from
the current subsidy level to a zero subsi4y ivLe4.
Different options might be used for each class *f service,
or groups of passengers to reflect equitable, :ocia-. and
economic conditions.



- 86 -
Page 3 of 3
(it)      Describe the consequences of the various scenarios on
reduction of subsidies, passenger traffic demand
distribution, PKP's financial results, groups of passengers,
etc.
D.   Recommendations together with a demonstration of the effects of these
recommendations as in C(il) above.
6.   The study should commence in _______ _  with the appointment of the
study group. A draft report should be issued by           for review by the
Ministry and ths Bank. The final report should be issued by _
polsaran.11



cvn
q4                                                                                UDPUPA&S  J91 PA DA(1 J1) did 04 ahI,NRsFP3 S.I4 UD4  jq /1
-             0-4         O      000 OD  001   0ODJ  0 oot  03       ZlOt  r00    r00    VS91   919    2Wt                        (1OIlBia) 9NIfM9
co>                       0 06   0*0    06    006   l06    0-0    006   006   0-06   ra              l      019                    (DIV1bSi9i  UNavM)
99    Z-      VS    51       V69   S-16    0h   9156    V96   616   91    S%                           (N11!d8     011TG)
Oliva uuDM
O0L    M-81 06r 9L    rW    £               ri    Ctg   r2U   9718 9             ' rOB                  (NDUW 1  UlolwM=)
OUWV mom
001    0O-   0`0    001   001    rit   V0 8    l 9QSl   6%               611    011                        313 O01 W JD
NIDUd v Sy AOIU3
11     rg8    '8    T9       61     16  Z6    'f6    T6    96    65              VS11          3IVO   INUo !   S  dndTl i
0Oa   51   Vt5    651   r-an  0w            619    rEt  ir2a    ris   rOS s re                                 ltwm'm     me
F5  TN   re SQ5    rot  9%   Cs  frli  rCL   Y%   78  Vf9                                                       SU ID maIm
rs-I    ri.  rim W I 8 9    ran   93                191t  s-i  98        61S   6WS6                          rIom MIM    131
9009    s-m s    FW 131    !6W1  9      2191     FiW 'zs -   ZFaiL  !6L   1195                     SUmiG1 UNU1 iivIL
_ _..  . ........ ..... _... ... ...... ...... .. . _ .... ........... .. . ..... ...... . ........ ... ........ ...... ... ......  ......
6ftt  £212   a1O    St61  BILL   CM    011           351 VNm01             mBsU                                      mvI
90    9£   ft-         6.       £ 8Z£   73£   0A£ £13   o'M 7     9   LM UV                                  1      1EE UUi
611    091 FI 71.C1 . '( I'm1                              111 V1                 0'                        09U    a11WI
O      0              6        S      t69 £'               F      '1 I-0L 6 1W
gs  l  0    R      R      s       X     L9       0      2       |      |      gi       ~~~~~~~m ci  uv.
'fIll[  016    LU    Z7s -WI. 8'  LZ  691"  s-r    s-lw   n            10-19 731E D                        lIIU
.. ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ......... .....
F6OWl      IrM   ITIM 286Wt91   V916   Y6M   6W1  1195   21a4   96%t  4rWS                                           'IIOL
~~~~~fJ4~~~~~~~~~~ XII-l
._.  ..._..  ...  .....  .....  .....  _......  .....  ......  .....   .....  ......
1A61   WB    fill ~~~~l    fil   36190                     Ft,061 49 m  v   m i
... ..      .......   .........     .   .........  ..    ....     ..  . .....   ......
Isom  i~~~~ iskom                                      ig(UOfl8 il
i~;iu   mumuz i~IIN~mu 
....... .. ....... ___.
..._.



c o
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A MO*mps Nc
¢~~~~~~~~r                Vt     r "            O    T       O      i     Ot 6         'l Y                      aiw M
6-  ZS7    S      OL   rm fXat  roe   T9   Z9D   0396 tSt   COS   O"                                 3m  OmTM
.,... .. ,,.......................... .....  ... ......  ..... ......  -----
IrS  O 9- &     8 rM    irU    Ltt  6116   r  t'9   9Wf  Or       TO t    E 6t£  (v5 033Wu   Sw   1E1
S lt    9 6        8~ Tt   rt  Ott 6     Z-# VI     99 r tf 6W-  WS -Z    6X rl SW                       M          Na
fit, reSt 9-i K f- 9 f-l SK f  fi *$ 6w                                                    w                ML:=o W
rF  8s *w   "      rsa   r0   rep   wag   win   rmo z  £ IZ              win Z   a                 =mm Wm 3a14S   lVan
.,..    ._.     .,..    ..,_    ....   ....  ....   ..._  ....   .. .   ...    ....   ..
.. . .. ....... .. ..... ..... . ... .....  ....... .. ..... .. ... ..... ., ..-,, ..... --... . .... ....... .....
iiiiiii'iiu   . . .......... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~   ~    _......
nn 
,,,,,.,,,., Umm........... " .-.  ,...   
x wa _        . 



,W _ _ _ _- PRT
NKP SAUI 158( T                INwIfrWI DeUER 15 PRICES)
cZL DIuLLIO
m  MS
TOTL  in  ASETS                            1S6.4   241:r 3s.s   463.3   5         589   55.9   5Z329.8  524.9  S21'.5   5a.3   51B.8
... ... .  ..... ........ . ..
IEI viiDSEI £6278                          ii    14Z2.2  2491.3  281.5  St5i  3053  3210.2  3342.0  34s6.7  3617.7  372.4  315.0
Wilt-lil                       6D, 1    ^,,~~785   1243   14,5.0  142.   145. 1   14.5,  162.    17.2  1595   14.    147.5Z
TOW. fn}E  MlETS                           14212  15O0.  3817.6  26 5  310D.2  5Z0.4  3D?9.7  3SOS 1  3559.8  3777.2  359.9  39Q.5
TOW. M9ETS                                 1617.6  172.4  3221  349.7    6.  379.3           .7  4.9  41.   42.   4.2  43.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ............. ....   .. ...   ..  ... .....  ...    
a-Rifb LIMILITIES                                            .                ;         
TWAL llBIT ASMTIES             li& i47:9 3R62   475- 3  U-                          M53   4ii   40.2  46.7    92   4.7  420.2
lllwm1lWlfUI                                46.4   69.0   54.2   50.6   87.8  143.4  214.6  308a5   U12.6  482.8  50.3  55Z.7
i$tt~ ~ ~~141  146U t   27zt 2I@   £i £^t  j                                                    fi32
TOIAL WJUY                                 14CB3  1404.0  2401.?  2939  3069.4  3130.7  315.2  3255.2   ms 3306.7  33507 .2  6f5.
T1TAL LIABILITIES                         1617.6  1742.4  3212.1  3459.?  362.5  374.   356  4(5.8  412.8  423.7  4~2   46.3
---       ---   .....   ....    ---    . ... .  ....   ....    ....    .....
WK--PIVRES                                  4.12       ?LS    lt.3     1.0    Vt.1    V1.1   14.5   16.1    13.2   19.1     l.t    1.1
UT VUTJlITT IUTIO                            3.2    3.2      1.9    1.7    2.8    4.4    6.3    8.7   11.1    12.6    13.5   13.9
LIABIP L     d lgk taf 
ii~~W               T7.1 4.                                .      .       .3     60      58      56     5.       .l.             .
MIW
...
o 6
'-a



Pa
sr t$L wRT
....................... .... ....... ........................
(ZL BlllIQ
w6 7 INI                      9 IM   9    199 WE         WE      1995    199M          t
AL   L ARL   rLKIM               FOaS=  FRCAT FDEDOT FIIE>S FUN=  FRE>Sr FWas  F
......... ........... 
Om    PIP                               LN    211W   4.744    "I4   ?AMi2   SM    ltAZ8  1l.W    12-fg   12.7t4  U5AW0  SAII
- OIIE POLIOH DIERV41                LMe 13   .7a   2556   LO    2.91D   2.955   4.044   4.W5   4.       4AS1   43St   4.M1
- EtRT SROIE                         OAI    0.7|4   O.9     1.0   125   13         2.110    29    27.4   3.62   33      3.776
WIaL wm A tlll    Ei 6.52 S317    &    103i  11'.7CS12.SS   17a B1 tl.44  19"31%  2,D.15D,  21S1  21.11
..................
SILAR    AD WM                          1.0911  I.al    2373   2Ab   L.9    2.961   3.19   3A3f4  3AZ7   US   3.7AI  3I 6
RE Me1 ElEMCIRCTY                      0.069   Om       .llS   0.1550. 0.192 OwS 0217 0.ai  25 O  X7  O.Z5 CJ8    Lu
m118                                    1AX4   2M      U31    3A      4.161  4.510   4.746  4.11   4.M   4.W4  $Al   L.
wImUII                                 0315   0.4f2   OJR|   0218   k|   0.3t   0311    O=    0A17   0A34   OA52   O AM
QTN    ;    0                          0.02   (o.lto) (OA")  0.55   0.68f  o.nl   O.h5   O.wS  o0e    OJ9    0W    0.t
aAiL was om                            ;.;6 3.;         9i35.5 73RV7' 8JSg   L.?'W9  9 .. 'O  9"A'92   9.84K,  0 t.q2  10-A-6  10".7-3
cpTnl6 iE    _         iATN         o      .ses  i.4S4  2278  2.942  3.S00  3.9  8371   8.962   9.4?4 tO.018  IO0s2 1132
DEO ElT                                   0.063   O.t43   0.150   OJX4   OM    0.374   OM2   09   1299   1.713  1.92    2.111
TOTAL PEawTINOES              3;9 4;   Z.1C  Z; B.S~   Ls.u3  9,.742 1034  11.s;                                     12A1.8s5 412 ta4
NET O TNG E;                              0.90 1.3 D 2 M    2.s5B 3.1?8   3.4ff tABD   8.1as L176   OM 8L                     9.t1
UIIEFET CM uSs                            0.070    0     0.136   0.000   Q0701  O214   0-M       I1Xl   1.776  1.912   1A         I-Ml
IET CI     MIT                            OA      1217   1.9;12  2.65    3.10B   320   7.;5    6 I!f   6A40  6351    6.SB    7.8tO
MET $LOUI AS IDERCU    Of USM               21      25      24     26      as      26     41      37     33      32     33      36                            @
9xxse: 3  aerd Om* staff est1m"t.                                                                                                                               X
23-"V90o   ,



STAFF ,SL, ,,tT
FNIST 1RMMT PUCTI
ZWI* CASIULW    ,T  , IN 0TMIT M M 1998 PRIMS)
CZL IlllllO)
Ae. AMC, <, MEE R  MO  ME ,_O MD ME RM  MEN f,                                                  g%,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~......                      ....    .............. .....
OTAIIT    N IDIE  MM DWIATICI                0.9B1   1.440   227    2.942   3.500   3.819   8.31   8.962   9.474  10.018  10.69   11m2  44.V44
LESS: MT TWX                               8&  8w  OS H   8:3                                1:8   &:R2 &M  J:i Am  S:w  tJ
TOAL                                   0.698   0.9   i.i48 K1i.                 1.7     1.751   1.8;9   i     2ON  .076   2.7    2'.2,71  10O,'
IETAJIW IIDE                                0.379   0.111   1.130   1.83    2.232   2.111   642    7.06    i.U9   7.992   8.43    8.92  33.457
LM MW                                  8: B  8:-  aWa  8:3  8:8  8:i 8.]iI  I:     M   IQU 1
ToTAL OMB! IW                                 O.M      0.0    0.i68   0E.0   00   0.21    0.5    i:asi   6.771    6W06  6KAO   6.m   1K.
I% InM  O.nt                0.I   0M        0.7OJ    1.16   0.96   0M        1.743   02 70       0.2256 03    w              3341
SEl   _m    as1  WATJW                       0.01    0.129   0.200   0.707   146?   1.594   4296   5.553   0.443   0.78    1.481   2.369  14
Hs 8:.W a8:3 8:3B 3  6:3111 IN  'i:  18 2:911B  W t.
TONAL INURSIf                                O.tB    0.t11   0.t39   O.UD   122D   2.740 a          11CB.    11.9     .      2K2 .200  47.9
snw  RM  IOS                                 0.3   (0.018) (<Qa) (0.527) (0.44?   1.166   S;OS   6.3   1t.517   5.917   0.719  (0.1) 29.60
WJUS:W                                   &918:3      8:B W    8:8  8:8  9l8  in   l:.-  &m    i    8:3  8:1  I:-
TOTAL 981!o                                  0.13    0.00   0.000    .a0 0    .700   2.tO0   8.40  10.i40   9.70   4.        0.0   0.0   34.990
WAns0.000                                                0.000       0.0 0.000   0.000    0.000   0   .00   O.000 0.000   O.0U    oM    0.000   0.000
lUTAL Rim  MALMIS                           0.30    MD   0.00   0Am.   0.700   2.101    BAN   10.10   9.M8  4£.Zm   .QM              @ 0   34.9
N  2IIEIISJ ItlT                           (0.05)  0.018   0.061   0.527   1.147   0.94   26   3.93   d.76) (1.71   (0.7    O.W6  53
CN-  AT  7IEIM  OF VA                       0.00    0.001   0.019   0.00   0.607   1.753   2.707   5.53   9.44S  7T9   5.961   S.3
Sl AT SO OF W                               0.O0    0.019  O0       o07   1.753   2.707   554    9.445   7.9   5.9S1   5S            SAIl
5   il             f                          5.4     9.5     6.7      0.0   32.1      9.9    11.4     5.7    1.1    1.1       1.3     1.
uxzs ansId Bff staffw
I:e
N
o wI.



PMD
FSWP WAMIU 85T
FIST 1RfdIw  *ET
am  *UMM amf T (3            IN 3mW RI519 ltC
CZ. SILLIOI)
.. ., .. . ...... . .. ... 
a.   .    ....... ....... .... ......
ASSEI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                          ....    .....   .....   ..._ s.         ...     ...    ...      ..      ..
io.onw  ASSETS                           !.9n,  ,2,3   4.301   s,,46,9 ?,        ,,9  1n,3.30  1,7,537  16!!?   14.n2  14.s  14.853
liP                              §~~~~~~~~~~~:0  Jig J:  1_6  Jfij 'gt§ 1.0 li-  31-  IL flR fi-
NU  FllE AM15                               2.4   2.418  4M58    417   .M           61  12.            2  3 3.4    40.    42.56    ...
M.u-umRSS                                   0.144 VA    .3   O.t48   0.090   0.610   1.37    4.750   5.S   S.995   3.30   1.tO0   1.100
.....      ..... .   .....  ..... .   .....  ..... .   .....  ..... .   ..... ..........................................._. ..
T0TAL FMl  ASSTSE                           2.468   2.501   4.131   4.07   5.505   7.81  16.5   27.769  38.460  43.448  43.6   43.754
TOTAL  EIS                                  4.      S34   ,91   10.   12.90  16.510  3D018  45.306  54.57   S.jM  57. 5  58.W
,LWLIABTIES
OJIIII LBIMIUTIES 
TOrAL 015ff LIMBLITIES                      *0.    K! t    1KW      14 70   1453   1,.150   1.842   1.m    1MB   Ka        2.0,2   2.161
LOIS. 150 LOWS                              0.000   0.000   0.010   o.00o   0.700   2.L00  10.8S0 a ).9   23.766  W.91  19.97  14.563
TOrAL IniM                                  3,.4,    4,.18   ,7.0    8.5W   10.437  11.560  17.46   2.42   26.544  31161  35.92   41.4M
TOAL LIMB!ItTIES                            4.439   S.4   9.2  10.077  12.790  16.510  30D168  45.306  S4.5=   SBI.   579    58.9W
cc=a==  ==  M===  C==  ===   = C=    C=    =
pm1w1TFS           aff                        2.0    2.      2.2     3.7    4.4    4.9    7.2    9.2         8.2    7.3    6.9    6.9
L/T OSwTy FATIO                                0       0       0       0       6      19      38      48      49      44      36      27
W         1        O  ME   MEt                40      55      61      58      68      60      84      48      30      23      21     21
Smwr: 3156m dIa*staffs.
0 w
o 



SWf US"WL RT1
..v . ....*o . .... - ..
ams owe  =W FOmuD  Ns MSTr  awlrg IEFE M    ce
191E 191 9lm                    wm     1990    19| "a 9 5 19    199   1911   1
IV:II*   AA    ACWIAL FO=1OM  FOiE=S FlE>S  S7 W fOMRJE>S FOE                         FOOI
......  ......  .... ...... .. . ...... ........ .... ...... . ... ..... . ......... .... ... ........ 
SAlES - RV                                2.46t   L.1X    4.766    6361    6A0    64s9   7A      7.79    8369    8.5S    9.aB   tO.l
- OIIE PMOL1| Ell8m15E               0.481   0.540   1644    1S2   1.962   1.996   2.20    2.2ls  2X5   2.419   256   2.n2
- EW    SWI                         0129   0 22   0590   0.7m    o.m    ono   oA         0.910   o.sO  t.W    1.13    I Z
1WAL IMTIIIX  OM.7                                .F       .      .t     36 96    0i   10*E2  11.3  12.Ct9  12.904t.1
.................
SAAIIUIS MID WMe                       0.7a6   0.93i 1z616   2.025   2.CC6  2.OV 2 .1Vt 2.171   22m0  2.MO   2.2            .0
RR MD El:lTRICM                        0.066   O.W1   0.172   OM2   0.22S   0.2    0216   OA36  om          oX?   O282    0 
mvmwu~~~~~~~~~ 1.2   1o-a   L5tg   3.97r  40174  40 .                      439 4-   0 J   4.469   4JdO   4Ji8   S 0
1111ERmse :    11OA06)  MM2) (0;|16   0.ZS2   0.4    O.=    0.    00                                 0M    OM$8  0260  D0A
SBIA. 1m eIveWS                        2.S70   2.9t4   S;4    .173'  7.452'  "A'4S   i.    7,"    8".1,10,  8SM    8-Aa    BM"
GOINERIUI  = llD  EPRKLM                  0.709   0.95D   1.54   I.TlO  1.9G6   2.211   2.77    2.91SA  3.2   3A      439   5.119
CEI:LATBI                                 0 Qe4  0190O 0.1%   0.450   0-SM   0.548   OA61   OJW  1.09S   I22   It37    1.42
wR as         RHeam                       0.625   0.70   139    13D    1A41   1s2   2.111   2.02   2.4ge   23         2.9M   3.M
IIIIEB  cm LU                             O.GR5   O.O9S   0.1!B   0.103   0.166   0.27    A04   0.66   0x8   0S9   0.736    0.63
NET SRP114/CIT                            O.S5B   0sC   IMF    M?   127S   1.36   1.707   IA42    1^M   1.5%   2Z6   33
NET 1X  AS A PERIAE OF SkIE                17.0   17.2    IM      13.6    6.6   14.3   16.2   13.2   14.4   12.9   173    21.9                     
9as  aMM ad B8fk Stafff es. w



-4.                        r i l      Olt    01     1E9   z*t   9rV    r19    fle   sl          Z    63                      ()VZ   90(aw N
CI4              w~~O  IwFo   49o. £E9&   seZE   £Wrz   109.1  &9wL   am0   U           00010  0000                         WIA AD (39IV NWJ
c ~~~~o    ~ ~ ~ jw    smL0   £wI   sg2E   £LYz   143&  Iwt    w    WO *0000    00    00D0                             W3A dO UKIUNUU  IV NWV
(E1o) avo  (Z0o) (two) (a6FL   Lwo   WV9   IO~F    OWO   I6L0   900O   OO0D0   0000                               IDJ3G/IwUm    M
OMOOWEL   00    000O   0L'   OWE'  0OD8   OME  C0 OD    OLZO   W00    0V0   0910   OCO03I'W    SOim I
olal   000    a*o   owl0  ocrot  coo-a  cowl 0      loD    co   molo  oao   mto   m*lo                                sNMO       NIv
U0~~E1  0000   0000   0191   0~~~~UE  0OOD    MD'      OKO L0  00O0 00    VO   CIOIN30SWO
SMEI C1aV0)  sro   WrZ   Drg  6901   9WZ  OWO  (OdO) (%VO)  a6t1O   W 09V0   0Mun 11   S                                   TOli  WU
OW91 0001   owo   ow    0Wrt  oar#  OWEt  0911   o%0   oP    LwL   tiWo   gw0                                        fIMMMI VIO
artE  ftl1   9wo   (MEIO) (901)  tlES.   r w        r Lo   &6o   MTz  swo   i4ro   MID                     wIVum HMO AInm  131
arL  (OWO) 6WO    mO  9WtL  OUT)  OWO   SfO  JIWO  (WO1  OWO  0r0A')  9W*0                           Taw& am     N  w m% m
gTL    M7F  Wgz   WfL  2CM   wgP0   IWro   irO   9VO   210o  920   arn   ICIO                                      3IAM  anG VIOL
4691   91Z'   Ift  11362   6WZ    US3  fl0I  Wn   R5_8  5501  ffS0I  isro  ff4                                        305  U
6Li.  6w5   an'   aWZ ~6176E                %Ct  a1Z2   gg1   OLWI  IL1.050   or                     UILVI4i`0       306   aum
WR  -iw  sri  iRJ; wm i irnwi   W    ;ai   06l                                     - W   i                               W
.... ---   ....                               .....9WI   .....  ....  ....  .....
(SUWO m ~   ~         ~         ~         ~         9
St Ei  IS   21    CUGIU 41.0 I3O JWJUo NIL3  WIdSV Es;U3                      90ML m
daa    vs6w    gi   wt tw    ut   ir    *)t ult utooaoULV M=                                              w    N
-  lVIIWIa dM3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~......



FLD
STAFF NFIUL MMB
fZLa -ul
zMM wan gmV CinMi IN cwBT DMV IR la Ih1S) a or OEM 31
C2. 3ILLtIS)
_,,,._.. ....  .......  . ,.......,.,,,. ...,, ._
AETS
..........
TTL   13   ASf ME                          i972   2.5   4.1A6   4.1   5.746   621    7i2   8.171   6.W7   6.271   60.50  6MG
EM F £1 TS                                 .9U    2.110   .1      5.    5.7         1     .           6ws                      15.9
liltv-lll_                                 0.m    OA30   0.¶    0M    0.1  OJ2   0.j2   O.AM    0.              0.A66   0.10W    OM
Tarm FD   MSS                               12    2.2 40 6.83  5AOD   5.8    6A45    9.4S9   3.W           2   17.401  163   1669
TO.L ATS                                   CM      J5.    9.7C6  1       1       12_ 112!A7 56 2M 21!,0 72'-                   5 231  .
LJUBILIIS
a.ir                                        LLMIIUTIN                                                                                                               'Ii
TotAL 083Sf LUMIITIB                       1.14   1K372   2.     m3.9   3.47   3.11   5*         31K0   3.19   3,J55  3.A0,  4,3
Win-linE UWS                              0.168   0.1OM   0.06?   o.0u   0.297   1.077   4.150   80     9.=    9.5n 7t157   5.743
TTAL fillY                 27ET   34 t51  6                   3   7.3    7.810   IS337   8    .9 9.53  10.925.  LOS    11.7I8   t2.546
TOTAL LZLITIES                             4.099   5AM    9.116  10.6   1158   12.65  16.731  21.07  25399  2L1  2283  25.072
aAT  ATS TO OIr IID tBLtIES                 1.7    1.9    1.7    1.5    1.7    1.9    2.0    2.1    2.2    1.9    1.8    1.6
VT MUTItITYMTIO                               6       3       1      1       4      11      2      '6      49     47      39      31
32.8   37.8   40A    25.8   25.    27.8    22    19.8   17.9   14.6    17.8   22.8                             t
0*0
Stavu MM :    d wk           s SW&    01b
o 



- 96 -
ANNEX1 
Page 1 of 2
QOLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJEGCT
DOCUMENTS AVALILABLE TN THE PROJECT FIE
A.    Reiorts and Studies on the Trensgort Sector
1.          Poland: Reform, Adjustment and Growth.  Report No. 6736-POL.
August 17, 1987.
2.          Poland . Transport Sector Memorandum Report No. 7701-POL.
April 4, 1989
3.          Policy and Programme of Transport Development till 1990.  MTNC.
Undated.
4.          Services in Polish Economy. Dispatching Services.
5.          International Motor-Vehicle Transportation in Poland.
6.          Intermodal Transport Corridor Along the *TEM" Route.
B.   Renorts and Studies Relating to the Proiect
1.          Modernizing of the Rolling Stock Repairs Technology.
2.          Development of Repair Potential of Track Structure Including
Production of Licera... Track Machines.
3.          Railway Signalling.
4.          Summary of the Results of the Traffic Census in 1985.
5.          The Permanent Way of PLP.
6.          Economic Assessment of Planned Investments.



-97-
ANNEX 1.5
Page 2 of 2
C.    ECONOMIC FINANCIAL AMD ACCOUNTING DOCUMENTATION
1.          PKP -  Income Accounts and Balance Sheets (in Polish) 1985-88
2.          ZWUS - Income Accounts and Balance Sheets (in Polish) 1985-88
3.          ZNTK - Income Accounts and Balance Sheets (in Polish) 1985-88
4.          PKP - Law of 2nd December 1960
5.          PKP - Announceent of Minister of Communications of April 2, 1970
6.          PKP - Act of April 27, 1989
7.          PKP - Legal Background
8.          ZWUS - Principles of functioning for ZWUS
9.          ZMTKS  - Decree No. 55 by Minister of Communications - June 26,
1982
10.         PKP - Evaluation of Investment Plan to be Financed by World Bank.
11.         Economic Evaluation of Project Components.
12.         Bank Disbursement Schedule in Zloties.
polsaran.15



- 98 -
Table I
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Freight Transport According to .Yode of Transport
BrancMS                   t970       1980       1901      1982       1983       19U4       1985      1956
.................  to  in sill t on) .................
Sat1ways                 182.3      482.1     401.5      402.1      414.6      425.5     419.4      43g.7
of whtcR
staUErWG 140            370.7      472.1     394.0      394.9      407.4      414.3     41?.?      423.6
Autametbi                 42.6    2167.9    1s17.5    1379.3    1397.2    1420.9    1393.4    1406.5
"ulic  anbort ,107.7              231.6      166.1     125.1      125.6      123.9      115.0     112.7
hii rnmenterarilese1    262.0      542.3    $S4.9       4S4.1      416.9      442.9     46.4       st0.a
es8wn c trasperte-   492.9    1058.0         344.0      797.1      $12.7      814.1     816.2      771.1
time Saipng                8.8         .2       16.6      13.7       14.3       11.4      14.5       14.9
AlrtrSflsU                 -                                -         -          -                   40  f
71A41           1269.1    2712.9    2029.7    1621.8    186.4    1901.6    1846.2    1592.2
Sea sn¶s'n9              J17.6       39.6      32.0       32.9       33.3       3S.4      32.0       25.8
. ...................ton.Alouoi   r (in *ilioial-------------)--------
Qairs                               114,79.3  109.5      112.7      115.0      123.5     120.6      121.8
LutomoSlel                15.0       44.5      36.0       34.0       35.4       36.6      36.6       37.0
@i*le trantooet          4.S       11.1       9.5        0.4        *.,       9.         ,.s        9.6
orancn esterefr1,  s      4.2      1I.1       10.5        9.6       10.0        7.9       7.0       11.5
own transvort.            7.1       18.3      16.3       16.0       16.7       16.0      16.7       1S.9
?nla*W snososng            2.3        2.3       1.9        1.6        1.S        1.4       1.4        1.6
Mie tranisert              .          .         .          .          .
p g1 1ne5               ...A       ..-.1L    .JLZ       ..1 2..    _  1.-.±  . .          .        ..
701*L           124.4     19.6       164.8      144.9     172.4      178.8      171.6     178.2
Sea sntooing             106.6      257.4     217.5      191.7      197.1     t93.4      177.8      '72.7
-*   nterpris0s serving only   rttcumlar branel s of esonemv
* rramsrt tfor O   nee" of  en-irausort enterrlses':  partly estimates
.  islli*tbl@
Source:  Stattsttl Year bb of Floln. 1957



- 99 -
Table 2
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Passenger Traffic bv Public Transoort
Passengers (in millions)
Ita Mlens                 1970     o196        1961      19lt      1963       -984      1965       1964
36t1ws"                  1054      1.100      1.114     1.106     1.042      1.035    1.0           990
Read tf6MUoft            1.374     2.379     2.340      2.321     2.424      2.438     2.435      2.458
Air?rert                     1         2         2          1         1          2         2          2
tnlaft .1lesios            a2       I            §t                        -__
TOtAL         2.439      2.4 4"    3,44      2.440  *  3.474      3.482      3.448     3.454
,.................... ------assenger-m In (in oli1ins) -................................
Rail"wy                  34.9      44.3      48.2       49.3      56.1       53.2      52.0       48.5
64 trogeoart              29.1      49.2      4W5        47.3      49.0       52.4      52.1       53.1
Asp Tr ?ttgI t            0.1        2.8       2.5        1.2       1.8        2.5       2.9        3.2
Znlan  SM9931nb           0.4        0.1 0.1 0.1                    0.. 0.1              0.1       0.1
TOTAL           4.7      94.4       99.3      97.9      103.0     106.3    t07.1       104.9
Sworn: Statsttscal Tear "a of folaiw 3W4



- 100 -
Tabl 3
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
......................
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
abwer of fotop Vehicle
VEhICLE TYP                        1970    1970    1980    lq1        1982    1986    1985
~~~~~~~~............       ....                               ....     ...... --*s ntlu+-***
.............     *.. in thowausea...........
TOTAL                             2,847   4,876   5496   5,853    5.996   6850    7.089
of which:
PASSENGER CARS                   519    1,916   2,4     2,722    2,972    3.514    3.760
of wich private                43    1,791    2,=      2,587    2,813    3.369   3.611
othwe                           40      81       as       as       90       8s      s9
SUE AND COACS                    33       61       66       674               s       83
LOaIES                           274     5"       618      641      616      732     780
of which private                27      112     154      180      185      26       297
TACTORS                          232     524      621      671       18      860     919
MOTORCYCLES AND SCO0           1,79    1.831    I,M      1,751    1,616    1,'     I,s'm
=MUs St1stiat Towr $ook of Pd3r,d, 1987.



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
FIBfI  TItU         BY T   FWsl STATE I   AYS
(ST"mG ) BY CAIW
1970       978       980no     1983      19211    1982       1S        3986       1970        982      38J6
Carso group                                      thousand tons                                                  average trans-
part distane
p    ton  In t
TOTA  .............         .  370         713    4714          93%      39492   NS4         412744    42369         261         269      2
of boitch
Coal ...2..                                5         1.....6.21....... 2ma 162S09    32197S    1548So   IS8492    160869    160241    2 62  295  205
Ligtite and coke .1617                     37604 17792 16976              IS767    14693      14611      IS773       221         22S      234
Ores ........ .................. 19964     25505      26941     20481      18424    19281     21746      25146       246         342  109 F
Stones.2155 .......................  3.. 22861        29790     21225     22367    21366      2420S      24688       204        201      2IS
Sand Sod gravel5 02--.--.-   ISOS    21112           227n7     16SS2      1577    12447     2I1S9      *47".                           208
Crude petroleim and petro-
la* products ...............  11493      37m91      3662S     139S7     13204    13250      3I2t3    13533         29         237       233
Petal and fetal products .    29264        4530       44457     35684     32686    2437       346844     37687       245         222     a2s
Brick ..             I .......    1912       1200   B 84          664       42S       38S       30S  18      9       220         24S      255
Ci_ t ........................              13711     10230      7704  .  9222       9761      9712       9080       282         308      314
Fertillfars ...................3.2324      14870    13674    13333        1322      12327  )3060         12403       314         332      U2
Ceeals .......................   9S53                  894S      8240     Ss6       4622      4433       2966       337         406      294
Potatoes ......................2026          1472     3106        926       644      II09     3Ils        lose       109         126       78
Sugar beets ...................2.003         244S      1938      2847      2495      2629      2soo       24M4       284         272      144
sbo  Nd td Products .        .......32598   Il596      3374     33126        55 l3S t267       3295      3*26                             274
Matca:  Statistical Year Book of Poland. 193 7.                                                                                                     I



- 102 -
Tab le 5
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FTRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Length of Public Roads (excluding urban)
(thousand kilometers)
All weatf_er roadsd
Year         All Roads          Total        Asphalt or concrete surfacing
1970             271             130                         76
1975             259*            142                         99
1980             254             148                        118
L981             254             149                        120
1962             254             l50                        123
1983             254             152                        125
1984             254             153                        128
L985             254             154                        130
1986             2S9*            172                        144
1987             293             179                        146
source:  Statistical Year Book of Poland, 1986
1986: Miseion, November 1987
* due to classification changes.



- 103 -
STAFF APPRAIS. REPORT
...............................
............... ......                   .....
"T IML ltm$  ~         ~          ISTTRNUR  POJC
Lwtph  ot Puihlc Rloa  in Polar  in 1917
?ftosma- th     ism.+*^-
~INUR                           URA
ROAS                         ROADS
NtATINL R"OAS ** ..
..............
tOTAL                                                                                          2.?
of hitch:
Pavedro                                                            .)                             x
Ynwsvd roads
vOVUS IP ROAOS
...............
TotAL                                                           116.3
of whicht:
paved roaft                                                     (94.0) 
-ove  roads                                                     (22.3) 
auaA. ao
MOAL.                                                           130.3
of tAiIhl
d   roas                                                        (33.1)
a~~~ved toads ~~~~~~~(95.2)
LOCAL URIANROAOII
TOTAL                                                               *S.8
of whtcf:
paved roads 
wuwd roadsx
AuL    a                                                 23.1                           49.3
................ ...............................-.--........--....- ............... . .. - . ---........----.-..................
of wiblib
pavd                                                           (171.6                        (35.2)
U-     rd                                                      (117.)                         11.
TOTAL AUL  PALIC OS tN POLAN  * 3.?
........................................
In nwtiani  thW  neswwr twe are:
213 km sem WV
W  Ls _rlasa.offntud.fuw 215 bk  with dumt ca _fegmsW/
S4Q km  ro  with du0    eariageusys.
.................
w it  tidit   see



- 104 -
Table 7
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Excerpts of Vehicle and Traffic Rezulations
RenulaCion 317 of 1983
vehicle Dimesions:
Max. length, single vehicle              12 a
, semi-trailer               16 m
, truck-one trailer          t8 m
, truck-two trailers         22 m
motorcycle and trailer      4 m
Max. width                                2.5 a
Max. height                               4 a
Manximum Vehicle WeiaIts for:
Vehicle vith 2 axles                     16 t
3 axles or more            24 t
semi-trailer, 3 axles                    32 t
ft   It , 4 axes or more             12 t
ArticuW  ted bus                         28 t
Max Roado nor Axle:
Single axle (except as listed below):        80.0 km    100 kN*
Multiple axles, depending on spacing:
*up to l.l1m                  57.5 kM
up to 1.2 a/t.1 a -  1.2 a        57.5 kN    65.0 kM
1.2m - 1.3 m       65.0 kM    72.5 kN
over 1.3 m         72.5 kN    80.0 kN
fax. Noise Level:
During driving, at 3 a from vehicle:
Vehicle weight i12 t ead  ngline power , 2Q0 HP         94 45(A)
to        . 10 12e   " I               00 HP         92 dl(A)
Vehicle weight 3.5 - 12 t                               89 dW(A)
other veblcles, except Motorcycles                      8S dB(A)
Motorcycles, 125 cc or over                             86 W3(A)
* under 125 cc                              84 43(A)
Remglation 33 of 1983
SEMI lwt4t-
A. All-purpose, non-urban roads:
Passenger cars and motorcylces    90 kmlh
Trucks and buses                  70 ku/h
S. Urban roads:                             60 km/h
C. Iotorays and  exess roads:
Cars without trailer              110 km/h
Blses'                             90 km/h
Otherwise as for A. above
* - 1 ka 0.1 metric ton.



105 -
Table 8
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Annual AveraRe Dail   Traffic on E-Roads in  1985
AAD0T -y Vehicle Category
E            Length                                           Light    Crwareial Vohielos
road          of road             Motor-       Passenger   comercial    Without    With            Buses  Tractors
number          km       AAOT    cycles          cars         vehicles      trailers  trailers
E-30              579      4001      54             1977          638           583        531        159         G0
E-40              573      5391      73             2573          841           852        143        258         5U
£-65              513      3853      S6             1900          601            542       464       *234         57
-75              634      6546      6S             3080         1089           1069       91a        266         S8
E-28              356      2891      64             1491          443            428       307         94         63
E-36               82      1789      12              896          188            210       440         40          2
£-67              454      4288      60             2097          69S           626        55S        188         68
E-7Z              740      4703      51             2403          743           687       SSO         217        S5
E-261             3SS      3719      73             1854          627           521       439         126         78
E-462              75      5330    158              2886          744           740       341         373         38
All K-           4472      4546      62             2233          725           684       584         201         S9
roads                                                 49           16             1S        13          S          1
j/ Annual Average Daily Traffic.



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
______________________
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
_______________________
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC ROADS EXPENDITURE 1986-88
1986                 1987                 1988
( -------------- ZL Billion ---------------- )
1.  Maintenance of Roads and Bridges     48.600       50      61.735       49      90.397       48
2.  Road and Bridge Construction         32.483       33      42.587       34      56.722       30
3. Construction of Motorways and
Expressways                           7.992        8      10.146        8      22.901       12
4. Investment Expenditure
4.1 Roads                             1.083        1       1.713        1       5.993        3
.4.2 Material                          1.040        1       0.930        1       1.342        1
4.3 Equipment, etc.                   6.204        6       8.571        7      10.441        6
5. Administrative Costs                   0.693        1       0.863        1       1.380        1
98.095      100     126.545      100     189.176      100
Source: GDDP.



- 107 -
teble 10
pap I R  2
FIRS Thi;;; POW
STAFF APRISL  W90
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................ ...........................__._.  ...................
xrECsTliESI1 (A;; fiaa- InWSiL  t)
AS OT  PUSCE OITIh     PRYSIC. C4WIN0.  M  TOMA    r  TAL
...............                ;wi.....   ......... ..... ................W.
E0WIIT               L0AL FREI        WN WLEL IGIa   UtL  flIU   LOCL  FIS  j OOT
,,,,,,,,,,,,......... .............. .  ..... ........_._  ................ ................ ........... ........
AUUAUS
ldRAO MIMIDWI0E
s.4pire trud mKhuu              0.00   21.10   21.10    0.00    4.32    0.00    0.61    0.00   26.04   26.01
........_...................................w. ..; ................................................ ...............................
mt                           0.o    21.10   21.10    0.00    4.32    0.00    0.61    0.00   26.01  296.0
2.1rII   rW. IWIJAP
O.Etase f*srop                  15.50    7.45   2.95    3S3    1.80    0.47    0.22   19.50    9.47   28.97
bhArete steepms                 3.95    7.40   11.35    0.A      1.19    0.20    0.23    5.00    9.42   14.44
c.dpwAwmt  oTawwu.              0.82   11.55   12.37    0.27    2.3    0.02    0.44    1.11   14U    15.44
d.Re=%fitifrvau mlts.            0.2    280    3.0B    0.0b    0.57    0.01    0.08    03        3.45    3.80
o.rldl bAt wldd                 0.      5.20    5.42    o.as    1.01    0.01    0.16    03    640    64?
shotl                       20.7  34.40   55.17   /..75    7.54    0.?1    1.13   26.26   43.07   69.3
38LL5 SM  MW.(Fi.w   by EIB)
aAtiid1c                        0.11    336    3.47    0.02    0.6    0.00    0.10    0.13    4.12    4.25
b.n*                            0.01    2.42    2A3    0.00    0.5      0.00    0.07    0.01    3.01    3.02
C.Oiwls                         0.07    320    3.2    0.01    0.69    0.00    0.10    0.08    3.99    4.0?
dJLd.m r*uir(*.)                0.0    125    1.1    0.01    0.53    0.00    0.04    0.07    1.81    1.89
sJofaly hr brdm(8t.)            0.43    5.76    6.19    0.00    1.14    0.01    0.17    0.52    7.07    7.59
btal                         0.8   15.99   16.6    0.12    3.54    0.02    0.48    0*    20.00   2042
4.SIGtLIS
a.hwUuumtsOmiL)                0.10    1.2    1.72   0M       0.47    0.00    0.0o    0.12    2.14    2.26
-------- ------.. _.. ..............................................
shoutat                      0.10  162    1.7Z    0.0        0.4J   0.00      .O     0.12    2.4    2.26
a.Sqdp.chta uwbuork             2.60   10.40   13.00    0.0    1.61    0.08    0.36    3.18   12.5   15.53
....   ........_ ..... ......_ ..................... ........... ..... .......... ............. ..........................   
btat                         20   10.40   13.00    0.50    1.61    0.08    034    3.18   12.35   15.53
6JWI_IN .ntES                    6.00   25.00   31.00    1A.     4.32    0.18    1.2    7.2    30.57   37.77
sktotal                      6.00   25.00   31.00    1.02    4.32    0.18    1.23    7.20   30.57   37.77
a.perdtirs 8 HYstClo            0.5    0.15    0.20    0.00    0.00    o.0o    0.00    O.CC    0.15    0.21
b*  mhw  dhsigrlli              0A      0.15   0.2D        0.00     0.0   0    0.00     0.05    0.15  ' 0.21
c.b_J wt i.S.(tna                0.07    0.21    0.31    0.01    0.10    0.00    0.01    0.0      3     0.43
d.0dtw SWISS                    0.12    0.77    0.9    O        0.5    OM       0.00    0.17    1.14    1.31
..~~~~~~...... . ........_ . __... . .......................... ......I.. ........._
stot                         0       1.31    1.60    0.06    0.45    0.0C    0.0    0.36    1.80    2.15
aSU* tuis fo am                 0.50    0.90    1.40    0.05    030    0.02    0.8    0.5        1.8    1.
RI13.1 (HP) UNTOTAL            30.94  110.72  14146    6.9   23%        1.0    3.97   38.0    137.2     5.15
aibchlm                          1.05    5.30    63     0A    O.8     0.0    0.16    130    6.30    7.60
*blUrfm fen                     0.00    1.20    1.20    00    02        0.00    0.0  0 . OM0    1A5    1.45
.    6.......... 7 ......... . .  ..   ..         0..  .      ..._._  .   9.00
*   81Slt    *               ~~~~~~~~1.05    6.50    7.515    022    US0   0.03    OM2  1,D    7.7S    9.05



- 108 -
TzbA 10
fWD 2 of 2
FIIST 1URM8W fl
.. ,,,,,................ ,,...,
STAFF AMA1L  WI
,,...,......................
P1C    ST ESTIMUE (All fig   In US   mitt.)
....... .......... .... . ,..,....,  _  ,..........................................
8am 0r   J  S KILL   fRlIE a EL    Pfl'JC. aITDl. 001  TOrAL  ST  TOTAL
I   I      I     I     I      I     I       1I.. .........P80J.
cmUI                 L0DL FoalII  1;L ;.                l     '                         j! OW  7W  OWT
, , , ,,, ,,,,,,,, ......... . .,................ .......... R.
T      ~       ~~         ~ UL  fSEiiA tXfEll UX1fIEa  II                       f   l   IPS
..............................  ........... ....... .... ,,, , ,....
c.mm om±z SIIM F.)
aEq&gpm                          1.13   11.56   12.69    0.18    1.6      0.29    039    1.0   13.58   15.18
b.Xt fast fsady                  0.66    2.30    2.94    0.13    0.56    o.o7    0.10    o.a6    2.96    3.80
cJ_a1rg frstruzw                 0.06    1.52    1.58    0.01    0.23    0.C5    0.06    0.12    1.81    1.93
d.Trmfnin far NAS staff          0.23    1.50    1.73    0.01    0.10    0.01    0.5    0M        1.65    1.90
sbca                         2.06   16.88   18.96    0.3    2.52    0.41    0.60    2.80   30.00   22.80
o.ipat fer fl6                  o0.00    1.sB    1.9s    0.00    0.30    0.00    0.09    0.00    2.37    2.37
b.V test &ilttians               0.V     0.00    0.22    0.0    0.00    0.02    0.00    048    O.O0    o.a
c.tedLjsst.A Trinfrg             0.00    0.09    0.09    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.10
d.Lx*mdry Gq4                    0.00    0.63    0.8    0.00    0.08    0.00    00        0.00    0.73    0.73
........ ....... j.W -    ---       W.... --- W.W"  -- --- *ss^**Woo*ss*W**** --- ;W  .. j.7
ai                    O~~~~~.Z    2.70   2.93    0.00    0.3  0.02    0.11    048    3.20    3.46
EJUT4Si  OF TLMW    & iR.E30W
.Studes                          0.15    1.53    14      0.6    0.15    O.1    0.12    0.22    1         2.02
b.Trupmcta R.trnwuru             0.37    2.40    2.77    0.03    0.56    0.02    0.06    O.2    3.00    3.42
obtow   ~         ~~.,     ,           .... . ..................... w   ..... ,,,   --- Z,
htta                         0.52    3.93    4.45    0.09    0.7t    0.C3    0.16    0.66.   4.80    5.44
WAD TOAL fre. fl8  c            34.79  140.73  175.52    7.19   27.22    1.52    5.06   43.0  173.00  216.50
OM    TOTAL. ml. E3l8 ant    34.11  134.74  158          7.07   253B    1.50    4.56   4246  153.00  19567
M        OWST    TABlE
............ ................ _
BmW  tzz5W'----L--0-----L- --ST'''''''---flEIU  IST+'-AL     -'.'
- I PH asi 3l.T. a£8 TOAtfL PR.aMT.TOTM.  |8YEuliPHrir. 918 TOA1L FlRNrn.OTALJ
=,,.......... . . ............................ ........... ........... ........ .. .._ . .............. ................. .......... ................. ....
A"  frt.E1 portian   30.94    1.03   31.97    6.53   3.M0   110.72    3.9?  114.69   22.55  137.25
$.amS                   1.0C    0.03    1.08   08    1.30    6.50    0.20    1t         1.03    7.75
Ca"IS                   2.06    0.41    2.47    03      2.E    16.88    040   1T.46    2.52   20.00
D.HNWoS                  0.22     ! *  0.34    0.00    0.26    2.70    0.11    2.81    0.3      3.20
ElME                    0.52    0.03      M     09    064    3.93    0.16    4.09    0.71    4
........ .... ... ........ ........ ........ ........ ................. ........ ........
TrAL                 34.79    1.52   3631    7.19   43.50  140.75    5.06  140.12   27.22 !17.00
CUE ca.Et8 pontitn  3048    1.01   31.27    641  3V.8   94.73    3.49   943   19.A0   117.5
N01M  I/ All prim  wre in Dec. 1958 pces.
2, Ew. rmtA1. CO UC ZL
3/V Fit Pricec etlwies are kased cn fttdrg inftatit  rates.
Lacl- ,  qe; _    in US$ Ime been giwn the se  rates.
1990  7.23
1991  4.4X
1992  4.42
1993  4.42
1994  4.42
1995  4.4X
4/ Cat TAle furtAus 1Ut0  mill.awlent of EIB finrcimg.



- 109 -
Table 11
S?AF  .FMfAISAL R tI
RARST  TR  tI PROJECT
lHPHf?AlG  soWIE   -IA   CHAR?.
aTtVrngS             Iw       i9f"     .990    :99t      1991     j; I4                 199  9§    1994    1994    19q$    tM
JU-NECMIAIl4I ItLY-iEC IWA-.JIE Jt/W-DEC  AMI-FJ W   M-CEC :AN-MU%E JULY-IEC 314    I 4W-YC JAN-JAE  uLMt-IC
LLOAM DFROCEStINI
I.Neotiatwofte                0
2.boT@ Pruontation                      t
:.EftetItgC" s                               t
4.Closanq VMS                                                                                                                  $
S.Project Caaplotion                         :I
IL.PROCU1IREIT ILIU
.tech. Stfications    mte##
3 Praatiom lid cla.    ttt1t50s00 st0
$.Aqe  sith ha  on
Itid da           - 
4.8Id invitatione
S.lid oohaatan- t                          i:iS"""""
6.3id evaluation                              m     etWU#
?.ok bds.oiection                             --
8.Jmard od  contracts
I.orkesop oteomisation
A.Suildii erks                           st"SttJt*$$s
b.Delivewy of eachine                                     $44$440$
cdIntall. ttit of mKaconeI
d.Ronningin wriod for the
foundry for hrakeh.loch.
.Track Waint.leprovreut
a.Ioldiflq uarkst:ono,S*Io
b.1livory of Uchinlt
c.Installstion of machines
d.Production of elastc
fateonngs.                                                   h t       u         ttt               I S / J
3.C&pzty sncrease on
s4n1111n9 f.ctpy
A.Dhlivery of mhin 
L.trndfer of knorhou                                iUnOsstssOtUnUtflO
c.ImstaUttallt  of d -acu
4.4laoeqeumt Inform."stem
4E:.(oratian of ester
polea IWOO$ll
b*beioery of equpmet
c.Cassisonia  of softwta                                "     -       _
dJahoqosw the 
S.Studial
a.tIII                 -=/1
?.TrahiAq                                                tttU Uttttttttl00  ttitU  tgt
lUl: /t.ftnmnced  cut of Pep foss.
12.lVetmuts on elastic 'ta"tr9s
have to keap gac sith the haaat
production of cancrete slep"rs.



- 110 -
Table 12
POLAND-DISBURSEMENT SIHEDULE
140~ 
°110
uu.   ___T _         - -                                         -- _-----     C-
s o                                                                I _     I    I _I     ___1  
Sn .---___  --- __ _ ___  -f_
1. 2. 3. 4 . 9.   ?. U. 9.  tO. 1D.1. 12. 1I.lt.l15.hL7.l?. 1.*9. 20. 2t.2.
O    ua Nli8UNtAHi-UD
OI_IREET  SOEUE.
QUAlRTE                     M,OUNT            CWWLATIVE
1. JUL-S  90.                               1.00               1.00-EFEtIVEJESS
2. OCt-DEC 90                                1 .00             2.00
3.JAN- Y                                    140                3.500
4. A-Jn 9                                   2.00        .      540
5. JUSE  91                                 3.00                3.50
6, OCt-DEC 91                               4.00               12.50
* . Ja-A  92                                 5.00              17.50
8. aR-UNl n                                  7.00             24.50
9. JUL-EP92                                 9.00              33.S0
10. OCT-DEC 92                              10.50              4.00
11. JAN-NMI 93                              10.50              54.50
12. APRJUNI 93                              11.00              b5.50
13. JUI- 9P3 *:                              11.00             76.50
14. OCT-DEC 93                              11.50              88.00
15. JAN-HAl 94                              A1.50              99.50
16. MR-JUNI 94                              11.00             110.50
17. JUL-SEPt 94                             10.50             121.00
18. OCT-IEC 94                              10.00             131.00
19. JAl-MA 95                                 .50             140.S0
20. AM-JUN95                                  .00              14.50   .   CORPLETIE
21. JUL-W  92                                3.00              151.50
22. OCT-DEC 95                               1.50              15.00 LlIIS   DTE
13.  ~ imw9                             1.0"5



- 111 -
Chart 1
POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Orpanization Chart of PKP - December 1988
~~~~.1.
OPERATION |INB   o                           En
Plalnnmg            Coxmercial            Traction               rack
8 D             ' Traffic               Care                    1gnal
|AJdi ting           Police                 Shows                 Contruction
Acquisition                               Wire dept              Investment
Personnel
Social
W alth
Intrnational      ;
L zDistricts
, nSR  -  - -                                    io~~~~~~~~~ Districts
lOafetY_
*                                           4               .  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



POLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC ROADS  (CDM)
ORCANI ZATION CHART
GENERAL DIRECTOR
bPU   DI                                        N FINAECIAL  O iI E   | QUIPMENT  PNNN|NTECHNICAL
ANID CONSTRUCTION    A lND MlATERtIALS.... 
POLICY              LODI ,rOADPMENT                                   PLAING |P 
_ ACCOUNTING   I          -      I-             -I-  ECONNICS   ROAD NLINT.
I ?RAIISI'IOJBT    _AUDITING                                                PERSONNEL     TECHNICAL
(Road dslsn)        -                      PERVISION          ATEItwLS                    DEVEOPKENT
.                      ~~~~~~~PRODUCTI4SN
.BU WDGET      .             - |                    TRAINING
am  ansacH                 ioli                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SURVEY
(Research, road.                                                                         r 
safety)                            1  ADIIINISTIBATION  |                              {URBAN ROADS
I  HIGIIUUKY  I                     17 DISTRICT OFFICES   IOTORUAYS
COMUTE CEMER                                    ,                                                   _ 
__O__ID P___I_ _                    I  196 SUB DIVISIONAL
| INSTITUTE/                               OFFICES



S                                                                                                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_                                                      (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z 
O0               +@ o  I            1.;                       -" -E-,,,,SA !
z.,i                               iJ Kz i,                                                   ~       '       (I
0 o                                          IL~~0   ~~          ~
Q'        71                                                                               .5i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 1~. ~U  
H  'W    a             3,Z) I                                              'I
=                                                           1                   4.'_"     ~     ~~~~~~~~ Ijil1llfA   ll
X,



