Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Report No. 16722
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans 3193- and 3194-POL
June 13, 1997
Energy, Environment, and Transport Operations Division
Central Europe Depattment
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Zloty (PLN)
(Average rates)
IUS$=          1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
0.95    1.06    1.36   1.81   2.27   2.42
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                US System
1 meter (m)                                  3.29 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                             0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =              0.39 square mile (ml2)
I metric ton (m ton)          =              0.98 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                              2.2 pounds (Ibs)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FERPOL                        Polish State Railways Trade Office
GDDP                          General Directorate of Public Roads
GNP                           Gross National Product
MIS                           Management Information System
MTME                          Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy
NBP                           National Bank of Poland
OMIS                          Operating Management Information Systems
PKP                           Polskie Koleje Panstwowe, Polish State Railways
PKS                           National Road Transport Enterprise
PHRD                          Population Human Resources Development
ZNTKS                         Rolling Stock and Track Maintenance Plant at Stargard
ZWUS                          Signal Equipment Works
Johannes F. Linn, Vice President, ECA
Hans J. Apitz, Acting Director, EC2
Henk Busz, Acting Division Chief, EC2ET
Graham R. Smith, Principal Transport Specialist, EMTIE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans 3193- and 3194-POL
CONTENTS
Preface .........................i
Evaluation Summary ..................................................                                  i
PART I. Project Implementation Assessment .................................................1I
A.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                   .3
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                             .7
D. Project Sustainability                                    .7
E. Borrower Performance                                       .8
F. Bank Performance .10
G. Assessment of Outcome .10
H. Future Operations                                       .0
l. Key Lessons Learned .1
PART II. Statistical Annexes ...................                                                     13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                 ..14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                               ..15
Table 3: Project Timetable                                   ..15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual               .      .     16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                       ..17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                         ..17
Table 7a: Studies Carried out: Ministry of Transport ..............................................  18
Table 7b: Studies Carried out: Polish State Railways ............................................... ......................... 19
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................................. .                     20
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................................                   20
Table 9a: Status of Legal Covenants Loan 3193-POL            ............................................. 21
Table 9b: Status of Legal Covenants Loan 3194-POL            ............................................. 22
Table  Oa: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................       23
Table 1Ob: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................           23
Appendices:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
Al. Polish Railways (Loan 3194)
A2. Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (Loan 3193)
A3. General Directorate of Public Roads (Loan 3193)
B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans 3193- and 3194-POL
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Transport Project in Poland, for
which Loan 3193-POL in the amount of US$8 million equivalent and Loan 3194-POL for US$145 million
equivalent were approved on June 11, 1990 and made effective on September 11, 1990. The Republic of
Poland was the borrower for Loan 3193, with the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy (MTIME)
as beneficiary. The Polish State Railways (Polskie Koleje Panstwowe - PKP) was the borrower for Loan
3194, with the Republic of Poland as guarantor. The project was the Bank's first in Poland's transport
sector. Its preparation coincided with the fall of communism in Eastern Europe and it was implemented in
the years of greatest flux and change immediately thereafter. It was successfully completed in spite of
these circumstances.
The loans were closed on December 31, 1996, one year after the original closing date. They were
fully disbursed, the last disbursement taking place on May 1, 1997. Co-financing for the project was
provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB), through a loan of ECU 20 million signed on July 12,
1990 and fully disbursed by December 15, 1995. Bilateral grants for technical assistance were provided on
a parallel basis by Austria, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland and the United States of
America, without any formal link to the Bank loans.
The one-year completion delay was due mainly to difficulties encountered in the procurement of
computer hardware and software systems. Between loan signing and effectiveness $3.25 million of the loan
for MTME (Loan 3193) was canceled at the borrower's request; the Ministry wanted to secure grant
financing for several studies in lieu of the loan.
The ICR was prepared by Graham Smith, principal transport specialist, Karim Budin, railway
engineer, and Enar Wennerstrom, senior financial analyst, under the supervision of Henk Busz, Acting
Chief, EC2 Energy, Environment, and Transport Operations Division.
Preparation of this ICR was based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the loan agreements, supervision
reports, a visit to Poland in late January/early February 1997, and completion reports of May 1997
(annexed to the present report) prepared by the MTME and the General Directorate for Public Roads (on
Loan 3193) and PKP (on Loan 3194). The Bank's draft ICR was circulated to MTME and PKP in early
May 1997. This report was reviewed by Franz Kaps, Projects Advisor (EC2DR).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FiIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans 3193- and 3194-POL
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
1.    The project was one of the first Bank-financed projects in Poland and the first in the
transport sector. It was intended to:
(a) support the Government's efforts to restructure the transport sector towards modem
organizational forms and management strategies;
(b) introduce more efficient internal management systems and maintenance procedures, as well
as provide financing for the equipment necessary to support this;
(c) train managers in modern transport management techniques;
(d) increase competition in the railway sector; and
(e) improve the economic, financial and operating performance of Polish State Railways.
2.    Accordingly, the project comprised:
(a) repair and modernization of equipment and facilities for railway rolling stock, track
maintenance, signaling and telecommunications;
(b) measurement and laboratory equipment for maintenance and repair of the highway
network;
(c) technical assistance to introduce an improved management information system in PKP and
to investigate long-term strategic issues in the railway sector; and
(d) training for senior managers of sector institutions.
3.    One of the major components of Loan 3194 was to have been the modernization of
equipment at the rolling stock and track maintenance plant at Stargard (ZNTKS), in parallel with
a corporate restructuring under which the plant would have become independent of PKP and
would have ceased maintaining rolling stock to specialize in track maintenance. In 1992 PKP
asked that this component be deleted because a planned privatization with a foreign joint venture
partner had to be abandoned because of irreconcilable differences with the work force. The loan
funds were reallocated to other components.



ii
4.    An amount of $3.25 million allocated for studies and technical assistance in Loan 3193
was canceled between loan signing and effectiveness at the borrower's request in the expectation
that bilateral grants would be secured instead. Grants in excess of this amount were indeed
secured in due course for these studies.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Fulfillment of developmental objectives: The project enabled PKP to renovate and
modernize several key facilities for track maintenance, to modernize its internal tele-
communications for data transmission and acquire a management information system as planned,
as well as to carry out important studies for restructuring to adapt to the needs of a market
economy. This allowed it to lower operating costs, improve the quality of services offered, lower
the rate of accidents, and retain traffic that might otherwise have been lost.
6.   Institutional sustainability: The project benefited greatly from technical professionalism
and continuity in three important quarters. Firstly, the Ministry of Transport provided clear and
far-sighted strategic leadership as to the sector's development throughout the time the project
was being implemented. Secondly, PKP created, at project start-up, a specialized unit for
procurement headed by an experienced Polish national who remained in this post throughout
implementation. Thirdly, competently staffed project co-ordination units in both MTME and
PKP greatly facilitated communications between the Bank and the implementing departments.
7.    Borrower's performance (PKP): In the past decade the Bank's portfolio of railway
projects has contained many problem projects, as large and in-grown railways struggle to
restructure in response to shrinking demand. It is therefore all the more commendable that PKP
successfully implemented this project as a first-time borrower, in a fast-changing economic and
political environment.
8.    Throughout the six years of implementation, procurement was handled professionally.
The only significant difficulty which arose was in the procurement of the mainframe computer
system and software for the Management Information System. The need to take quality
differences into account came into conflict with the strict application of the lowest evaluated
responsive bid. Since then the Bank has modified its procedures for the procurement of
hardware and software systems to allow a larger weight to be given to quality differences.
9.    At the time the loans closed, PKP had evolved substantially in the intended direction. It
was poised to implement a major reorganization into lines of business as recommended by the
Bank and in accordance with the European Commission's directive 91/440 for EU member
railways. In this regard Poland is ahead of some EU member states. Several major suppliers of
rolling stock, track and signaling had become legally independent. A modern data transmission
system was in place and work was well advanced in designing improved financial and
operational information systems. PKP staff had been cut by nearly a third. A number of
uneconomic lines had been closed. Subsidy policies had been clarified and rationalized; subsidy
payments had been significantly reduced.



iii
10.   PKP's finances remained under stress, however, with damaging consequences on its
aging assets. This was due to the larger-than-expected drop in traffic and continued reluctance
on the part of the Polish government to take drastic action to curtail losses on passenger
operations. This is a problem common to railways everywhere and Poland's performance has
been better than most railways of Central and Eastern Europe.
11.   Borrower's performance (MTME): The Ministry of Transport implemented its
components (under Loan 3193) promptly and effectively. The equipment purchased was put to
good use improving the planning of road maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as
administration of the Ministry, and the studies were used to improve policies and investment
appraisal in all surface transport modes.
12.   Bank's performance: The same task manager was responsible for the project from the
time it was identified through appraisal and presentation to the Board and throughout
implementation until half a year before the loans were closed. As on the borrowers' side, so also
on the Bank's side this continuity contributed in no small way to the project's success. The
borrower, in its completion report, cites among lessons leamed the need for more intensive Bank
supervision during the first year of implementation.
13.   Assessment of project outcome: The project outcome is highly satisfactory overall. The
project has substantially met its institutional and physical objectives --with effective adaptation
to changing circumstances during implementation; sector policies have been substantially
strengthened; and these achievements are likely to be sustained. Bank and borrower
performance were satisfactory or better in all areas rated. The one issue for some concern is
PKP's financial situation, but it is better than that of many railways.
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
14.   Sustainability: The project's impact is likely to be sustained in two important respects.
Firstly, the Ministry of Transport provided far-sighted strategic leadership as to the sector's
development throughout the time the project was being implemented. Despite the complexities
of a fluid political environment, the design, sequencing and timing of each major reform step
have been generally well conceived and have achieved their objectives. The newly created
independent enterprises have the incentives and legal powers to make their improvements in
performance irreversible. Secondly, PKP created, at project start-up, a specialized unit for
procurement headed by a Polish national with international experience in procurement. The high
quality and continuity of procurement management contributed greatly to the project's success.
This unit now handles all major procurement for PKP.
15.   PKP's financial sustainability is the one area which leaves grounds for concern. Its
continued inability to cover its costs from revenues and compensation payments for public
service obligations is preventing it from behaving completely as a private, competitive enterprise.
It can be argued that only the intended reorganization will create the incentives and
accountability systems needed to achieve that objective.



iv
16.   Future operatiQns: The studies conducted under Loan 3193 allowed the preparation of
the program of road rehabilitation implemented under the Roads Project (Loan 3564-POL for
$150 million) signed in 1993. Likewise the national ports master plan study carried out under
Loan 3193 laid the ground for the Ports Access and Maintenance Project (Loan 4080-POL for
$67 million) signed in 1996. A second roads project is planned for FY98 and a second ports
project for FY99. Thirdly, the Ministry's restructuring program for the railway system, as
Poland approaches membership in the European Union, have laid the groundwork for a further
World Bank-supported project to support the restructuring process. How best to do this remains
to be agreed; it could include financing of severance payments to redundant labor and upgrading
of rail infrastructure for the benefit of competing freight train operators, once open access by
multiple carriers has been introduced. The Country Assistance Strategy tentatively programs this
operation for FY2000.
Key Lessons Learned
17.   The key lessons learned are:
(i) Polish Railways' continuing financial difficulties reflect a struggle, common to almost all
passenger railways, to reconcile traditional concepts of a monopoly public service with
modern concepts of a commercial transport enterprise facing vigorous competition from
other transport modes, especially road transport. Addressing this conflict is central to
Bank assistance to any railway.
(ii) Against that norm, this project was conspicuously successful because of continuity of
policy and commitment by PKP and (especially) the Ministry of Transport.
(iii)Creation of the specialized unit for procurement within the railway, headed by someone
with international procurement experience, and the retention of that specialist throughout
implementation, was an immense help.
(iv)Continuity of task manager from the preparation phase through implementation yields
considerable benefits in terms of the efficiency and consistency of the Bank's role.
(v) PKP's experience of evaluating computer hardware and software under competitive
bidding was one of several cases which led the Bank to prepare specific procurement
guidelines for such items.
(vi)A broad initial project in a sector can prove valuable in opening the door for subsequent
lending operations which then pursue in more detail the institutional and policy reforms
analyzed under the first operation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
Loans 3193- and 3194-POL
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    This project was prepared at a time when centrally planned economic systems were
collapsing throughout Eastern Europe. In the uncertain conditions then prevailing, the Bank's
overall strategy for Poland was to support efforts to strengthen the economy's ability to compete
in the world markets and improve living standards at home, while meeting its external debt
burden. To achieve this it was fundamental to: (i) reform the economic system to enable the
economy to produce and distribute more efficiently; (ii) restructure the outmoded and deficient
production and maintenance facilities; and (iii) arrange substantial foreign assistance to finance the
restructuring efforts.
2.    The project was to support these objectives in the transport sector. If measures like those
included in the project had not been undertaken, the transport system would have deteriorated and
constraints would have appeared, driving up transport costs at an accelerating rate and ultimately
leading to significant bottlenecks, in particular in the railway sector. Privatization of a large part
of the economy was an important element of economic reform in Poland, but it was clear that the
railways and the highway administration would remain in the public sphere for the foreseeable
future and it was vitally important that they too be modernized and their efficiency be increased.
In parallel, competition in the sector had to be increased and certain activities needed
restructuring so that they could be privatized. The Bank also had a vital role as a catalyst for the
support and speeding up of the Government's reform program, as well as a conduit for the
introduction of modern institutional structures, techniques and capabilities.
3.    The project, therefore, aimed to:
i) help the sector evolve from one characterized by rigidities, central commands, narrow
engineering considerations, and capital-intensive solutions to modern organizational forms
and management strategies adapted to a more open economy, including measures which
would contribute to introducing competition in the transport system, such as increasing
the autonomy of the enterprises in the PKP group, and changing procurement and
marketing procedures;
ii) introduce more efficient internal management systems and maintenance procedures, as
well as the equipment necessary to support this; and
iii) train managers in modern transport management techniques; and
iv) improve physical and financial performance.



-2-
4.    The project was to focus on the maintenance requirements of those parts of the railway
and highway systems which were deemed to be economically viable in the long run. Those parts
of the system which did not have prospects of economic viability were to be abandoned, and
within the project this objective would be pursued for uneconomic railway lines, marshalling yards
and stations. The project would modify the relationship between PKP and two of its major
manufacturing units responsible for signaling and track maintenance respectively. In addition, it
would contribute to financial discipline in these entities by having the allocations from the PKP
loan to them made on commercial terms. The project would also develop longer-term plans for
restructuring and modernizing operations and maintenance according to sound economic criteria.
5.    To achieve these objectives, the project included the following components:
Railways (Loan 3194 excevt item (i))
(i) Rolling Stock Maintenance and Repair (EIB co-financing): Modernization of maintenance
equipment and facilities for electric locomotives; improvement of freight car repairs;
modernization of brake shoe manufacturing;
(ii) Track Maintenance and Repair: Production and installation of more efficient rail
fastenings, improved turnouts on mainlines and the production of concrete sleepers,
setting up facilities for reconditioning of rails; flash-butt welding of rail joints; and import
of track maintenance machines as well as modernization of the domestic repair and
construction facilities;
(iii) Signaling and Telecommunications: Modernization of signaling and telecoms production
facilities to improve train operating efficiency and improved data processing facilities;
(iv) Operating Management Information System (OMIS) to achieve a coordinated flow of data
for management decision-making;
(v) Studies: (a) long-term locomotive design and maintenance; (b) design of a modern
management information system for train operations and simulation as well as for general
management purposes; and (c) rationalization of train formation and dispatching.
(vi)Institution Building: Actions and developing conditions to move various ancillary services
and manufacturing enterprises within PKP towards becoming autonomous enterprises,
including change in procurement and marketing procedures. Training and professional
contacts with Western institutions and transport agencies for PKP's managers to acquire
know-how about Western methods of strategic planning, economic analysis of
investments, management of transport enterprises etc.



-3-
Hifhway Administration (Loan 3193)
(i) Development of a pavement management system, including technical assistance and
equipment;
(ii) Quality control and testing laboratory equipment.
Sector Reform
(i) Technical assistance, training and studies for sectoral reform (bilateral grants);
(ii) Program to close uneconomic railway lines and stations;
(iii) Annual review of the transport sector investment program;
(iv) PKP financial and physical performance; and
(v) Sectoral studies (Loan 3193):
(a) development of combined transport; (b) road transport development; and (c) road user
charges.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The project fulfilled most of its many objectives, not only the physical investments but also
the institutional and policy goals. It enabled PKP to renovate and modernize several key facilities
for track maintenance, modernize its internal telecommunications for data transmission, and
acquire a management information system as planned, though with some delay. This allowed it to
lower operating costs, improve the quality of services offered, lower the rate of accidents, and
retain traffic that might otherwise have been lost. The project also enabled PKP to carry out
important studies for restructuring to adapt to the needs of a market economy. Some loss of
momentum was recorded in later years, but the direction of change remained correct.
Institutional development: Railways
7.    Illustrative of these accomplishments was the progress recorded at the end of 1991, the
first full year of implementation. During that year the Government and PKP:
a) completely divested 80 manufacturing, construction and service subsidiaries, and
established them as separate joint stock companies, employing 70,000 workers;
b) reduced PKP's operating staff by over 47,000 workers (14%), discontinued service on
693 km of line, and scrapped obsolete rolling stock; and
c) arranged for on-lending to six of PKP's former manufacturing subsidiaries.



-4-
8.    The pace of line closings met the covenanted target of 200 km per year. Actual closings
between 1991 and 1994 totaled 2,614 kin, more than double the covenanted 1,000 km, trimming
the network by 11 percent. Likewise, closing of marshalling yards (from 110 in 1970 to about 12
by 1996) went beyond expectations.
9.    As intended, several major plants which hitherto had been integral units within PKP
became independent joint-stock companies. The Signal Equipment Works (ZWUS) was
privatized through a joint venture with a major Western supplier, ABB. By 1994 PKP staff had
been reduced by 29 percent (from 349,000 in 1989 to 249,000 in 1994).
10.   Annual financial audits were complied with each year, strengthening the concept that PKP
was a "normal" company and no longer to be viewed, as it had been, like a ministry.
11.  In 1993 the Government established a commission of senior officials to recommend
restructuring of PKP. It lost momentum in 1994 after a change of government. A February 1994
mission wrote in its aide memoire that reorganization into lines of business was foreseen for July
1, 1994. In hindsight, this proved too optimistic. The bill reorganizing PKP was not signed into
law until July 1995. At the time of writing of the present report (May 1997) the mandated
reorganization has still not taken place, but separation of train operations from infrastructure is
foreseen for the second half of 1997. Mostly to blame is the long time needed to pass the
necessary law through a less reform-oriented Parliament and opposition from the railway
workforce. The delay had the merit of allowing time for consultants to be hired, who provided
valuable advice, and for insights from EU experience to be taken into account. (All EU railways
are required to reorganize on similar lines to those PKP is pursuing, but not all have yet done so.)
A rail transport bill, which goes a major step further in allowing independent train operating
companies access to the rail network, thus breaking PKP's monopoly, is awaiting the President's
signature. A third bill, authorizing sale of surplus railway property, has passed its first reading.
All this gives reason to believe that, despite opposition, the Ministry of Transport will ensure that
railway reform goes forward.
12.   At the time the loans closed, PKP had evolved substantially in the intended direction. It
was poised to implement a major reorganization into lines of business as recommended by the
Bank and in accordance with the European Commission's directive 91/440 for EU member
railways. In this regard Poland is ahead of some EU member states. Several major suppliers of
rolling stock, track and signaling had become legally independent. A modern data transmission
system was in place and work was well advanced in designing improved financial and operational
information systems. PKP staff had been cut by nearly a third. A number of uneconomic lines
had been closed. Subsidy policies had been clarified and rationalized; subsidy payments had been
significantly reduced. However, PKP's finances remained under stress, with damaging
consequences on maintenance and replacement of its aging assets. In perspective, though, its
performance was better than that of most railways of Central and Eastern Europe.



-5-
Institutional Development: Roads
13.   Not only PKP but also the General Directorate for Public Roads (GDDP) met its
objectives in large measure. The purchase of equipment and the policy studies to be carried out
by the Ministry and GDDP were largely completed by 1993. These enabled GDDP to set up an
effective pavement management system and to equip its laboratories for a higher level of quality
control than before. It also led to the building up as early as 1991 of a competent team in GDDP
to manage the pavement management system; this team became the interlocutor for the Bank's
Road Project approved in 1993 (Loan 3564-POL).
14.   Managerial and technical training was provided to staff of MTME, PKP and GDDP as
planned. Its beneficial impact has been seen in the quality of their performance subsequently.
15.   By the time the loan closed, GDDP had evolved into a technically competent agency
comparable to similar organizations in EU member states. It had a much enlarged budget for road
rehabilitation and maintenance, was well along in implementing a $150 million loan from the
World Bank, and was about to negotiate a second loan for road rehabilitation, this time of $220
million.
Other Developmental Impact
16.   At least 20% of the transport sector investment budget was to be subject to economic
analysis in 1991, increasing by 15% annually to at least 80% by 1995. This was complied with
each year up to and including the 1995 budget.
17.   The study of road user charges, carried out in 1992, led to substantial increases in excise
taxes on fuel. It must be said, however, that a further study will be needed under the Second
Roads Project to tackle the continuing shortfall of user charges for heavy vehicles.
18.  In 1992 the Government adopted a new policy on rail passenger subsidies, cutting
subsidies by one third compared to 1988 levels. It limited the scope of free and discounted travel
from 1 January, 1993 onwards.
19.   It had been hoped that support could be given to development of intermodal transport
(moving containers by rail), largely for its expected environmental benefits compared to haulage
by road. But it was not clear at appraisal what form this support should take. A study was duly
carried out with Dutch grant financing and led to the setting up in 1992 of a joint venture among
PKP and several private partners, known as POLKOMBI, and the earmarking of $2 million from
the Bank's Roads Loan for POLKOMBI. However, this had still not been drawn on by May
1997, for want of a decision by MTME as to the appropriateness of providing a sovereign
guarantee to a private firm operating in a competitive market. The issue was not helped by the
slow start-up of POLKOMBI's operations, which prevented it making a strong case for the use of
the funds.



-6-
20.   PKP has not calculated expost rates of return on the investments. At appraisal the ERR
on the project was estimated at 25%, using an assumed equilibrium exchange rate midway
between the official and parallel market rates. ERRs on the various categories of equipment
ranged between 15% and 31%. These can only be seen as approximate, since the methodologies
for calculating them require necessarily arbitrary assumptions about what would have happened in
the absence of the project and the impact of specific parts in a complex machinery. For example,
the many items of maintenance equipment have been used jointly with other assets to lengthen the
working life of track and rolling stock, reducing traffic delays, lowering operating costs, and
slowing the erosion of traffic. Defining and costing out a "without project" alternative after the
fact is open to many varying hypotheses. Furthermore, during the implementation period prices
were subject to rapid inflation, making comparisons difficult. The management information
systems, likewise, improved the efficiency of large parts of PKP's operations at relatively low
cost, but isolating and evaluating specific impacts is not easy and has not been attempted by PKP.
21.   Some of the investments, such as the sleeper production lines, have been used well below
their capacity because of the drop in rail traffic. Their financial return will have been lower than
appraisal estimates. However, most of the investments --equipment that helped reduce operating
costs for core existing traffic-- will still have had a satisfactory economic return compared to
continued deterioration of assets, further erosion of traffic, and larger operating losses. Decisions
on where to reallocate unused loan funds as implementation proceeded were made largely on
engineering judgment, concentrating resources where the largest cost cuts could be made. This
was acceptable.
Co-financing
22.   The European Investment Bank's parallel loan of ECU 20 million was originally allocated
to introduction of modern repair technologies in rolling stock repair units, to enable electric
locomotives (among other things) to be repaired under standards similar to western European
railway companies, which assure higher durability and operational reliability, as well as increased
work safety and environment conditions.
23.   As the repair units were spun off from PKP and privatized during the first two years of
project implementation, the new entities cut back on their use of EIB funds. Ultimately only ECU
4 million was used for this purpose in plants at Gliwice, Minsk Mazowiecki and Olesnica. All
equipment has been operating satisfactorily for two years. Actual use of capacity has been well
below expectations, resulting from the sharp drop in PKP traffic and consequent lower demand
for repairs of electric rolling stock.
24.   The ECU 16 million of the EIB loan not used on rolling stock repair was subsequently
applied to construction of fiber optic main telecommunications lines (ECU 3.8 million) with
associated transmission facilities (ECU 0.8 million) and 11 automatic exchanges (ECU 11.4
million). This allowed PKP to digitize its telecommunications and greatly expand its data
transmission capacity. All 11 automatic exchanges were delivered in 1996, and by May 1997
90% of the transmission cables had been delivered and 63% of the transmission facilities. The
EIB loan was fully disbursed by its closing date. The outstanding deliveries will be paid from



-7-
PKP's own resources. This telecommunications network will greatly enhance the scope and
effectiveness of the management information systems financed from the World Bank loan.
25.   MTME was very successful in securing eight bilateral grants for studies and technical
assistance from seven countries for itself and PKP. They are listed in Table 7.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
26.   Some adjustments proved necessary as the first round of procurement was completed and
PKP went through a first stage of restructuring. A joint venture for ZNTKS had to be abandoned
because of irreconcilable differences between the prospective foreign partner and the labor unions.
This led, by agreement with the Bank, to the corresponding component being deleted and the
$7.8 million earmarked for it to be reallocated to additional track maintenance equipment and the
OMIS.
27.   In the case of the signaling plant (ZWUS), whose legal separation had also been given
prominence in the SAR, the privatization process was successful. However, it did cause an 18-
month delay in the procurement process and led to the ZWUS subloan being cut from $20 million
to only $0.7 million.
28.   A third case was the three sleeper manufacturing plants. At the time of appraisal they had
not yet been singled out for privatization. Bidding for full new production lines was completed
and contracts awarded --at a considerable discount compared to prior experience with direct
negotiation. Upon separation, the contracts had to be re-negotiated to transfer legal responsibility
to the newly independent companies. Implementation went ahead successfully, however.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   The project benefited greatly from technical professionalism and continuity in two
important quarters. Firstly, the Deputy Minister of Transport and head of delegation at the time
the loans were negotiated and Minister of Transport since 1993, provided clear and far-sighted
strategic leadership as to the sector's development throughout the time the project was being
implemented. The whole transport sector has undergone comprehensive restructuring and
transformation under his leadership. Despite the complexities of a fluid political environment, the
design, sequencing and timing of these major steps have been generally well conceived and have
achieved their objectives. The newly created independent enterprises have the incentives and legal
powers to make their improvements in performance irreversible.
30.   Secondly, PKP created, at project start-up, a specialized unit for procurement headed by a
Polish national with international experience in procurement, who remained in this post
throughout implementation. The high quality and continuity of his procurement management
contributed greatly to the project's success. The unit, Polish State Railways Trade Office
(FERPOL), now handles all major procurement for PKP.



-8-
31.   PKP's financial sustainability is the one area which leaves grounds for concern. Like many
EU railways, PKP has not yet achieved a level of financial performance which will allow it to
behave completely as a private, competitive enterprise. Its continued inability to cover its costs
from revenues and compensation payments for public service obligations is preventing it from
maintaining and renewing its assets appropriately. It can be argued that only the intended
reorganization will create the incentives, accountability and management information systems
needed to achieve that objective. This is explored further below.
E. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   The Borrowers' performance was satisfactory or better throughout (Table 1). In the past
decade the Bank's portfolio of railway projects has contained many problem projects, as large and
in-grown railways struggle to restructure in response to shrinking demand. It is therefore all the
more commendable that PKP successfully implemented this project as a first-time borrower, in a
fast-changing economic and political environment.
33.   Project co-ordination units set up at the outset in both MTME and PKP were staffed
throughout by competent administrators who greatly facilitated communications between the
Bank and implementing departments. Continuity in the person of the Deputy General Manager of
PKP was also helpful.
34.   Procuring computer hardware and software: Throughout the six years of implementation,
procurement was handled professionally. Only one significant difficulty arose. That was in the
procurement of the mainframe computer system and software for the Management Information
System. The difficulties arose in part from the need to take quality differences into account,
which came into conflict with the strict application of the lowest evaluated responsive bid.
FERPOL adopted a points-based rating system which gave rise to an intense dialogue over its
appropriateness and, once accepted, how it should be applied. A second reason was lack of
clarity as to who would be responsible for system integration: the supplier of the principal
components or PKP. It took a year for agreement to be reached with the Bank on a solution.
35.   Since then the Bank has modified its procedures for the procurement of hardware and
software systems to allow a larger weight to be given to quality differences. The one-year
dialogue on this issue led to an improvement in Bank procurement procedures in this area.
36.   PKP's financial performance: PKP failed to strengthen its finances to the intended degree.
The restructuring of the economy caused a much sharper reduction in traffic than the targets
agreed in 1990 by PKP and MTME, and their subsequent efforts to cut costs and increase tariffs
were not sufficient to offset the traffic loss. From 1989 to 1992 freight traffic shrank by 48% and
passenger traffic by 42%. Freight traffic then recovered somewhat in 1993 and 1994, while
passenger traffic continued to decline. The net decline from 1989 to 1994 was 41% for freight
and 51 % for passengers. At the same time wage expenses increased at a pace which resulted in
huge tax penalties being imposed on PKP in 1990 and 1991 for having awarded wage increases in
excess of government targets. This was the practice in virtually all other enterprises in Poland as
well. These tax liabilities amounted to the equivalent (at the time) of US$275 million. PKP



-9-
argued that it had made these wage awards at the Govermnent's behest and should therefore be
exempted. Ultimately, the Ministry of Finance absorbed a substantial part.
37.   PKP complied with the loan covenant requiring quarterly indexation of tariffs in pace with
inflation, and reduced its work force by 21% in the first three years, which was politically difficult.
However, the company was still unable to comply with the Loan's operating ratio covenant.
Beginning in 1993, therefore, the original targets were drastically revised, and from 1994 onwards
PKP was able to almost comply with the revised targets. The table below shows this
development.
Financial taruets
Operating ratio with subsidies   Operating ratio w/o subsidies
Planned   Revised    Actual      Planned   Revised    Actual
1991       90                 112          104                 130
1992       90       104       104          102       121       121
1993       90       103       103          100       124       126
1994       90       100       101          100       120       120
1995       90        99       101          100       119       118
1996       90        99       103          100       119       116
38.   An operating ratio of just over 100 means that revenues and subsidies will cover the
operating expenses and give a cash surplus slightly less than the depreciation. Between 1991 and
1996 PKP's revenues covered 97% of its operating expenses, while operating subsidies covered
the remaining operating activities, debt service and working capital, as well as the self-financed
part of the investment program. In addition to these operating subsidies PKP has received grants
earmarked for investments. Total subsidies and grants for 1991-96 amounted to US$2.5 billion.
However, these resources were not sufficient to keep investment at an acceptable level. Between
1991 and 1994 investments were only 52% of depreciation, which itself was based on greatly
undervalued fixed assets. On January 1, 1995 fixed assets were substantially revalued, and the
investment level for 1995 and 1996 has much increased.
39.   PKP's problems have been due to the poor performance of passenger operations. Only
30% of expenses for passenger operations were covered by revenues from passenger traffic. In
addition to the state subsidies, the entire surplus from freight traffic had to be used to cover the
passenger deficits. During the period 199 1-1996 freight traffic became more and more profitable
(with the excellent operating ratio of 65% in 1996) and a clear shift took place from direct state
subsidies to cross-subsidization. Cross-subsidization from freight to passenger traffic rose from
33% of passenger expenses in 1991 to 46% in 1996, while the state subsidies were lowered from
26% to 15%. This is not sustainable. The freight operation must be allowed to use the major
portion of its operating surplus to further its own development. For this to be possible the freight
operations should be separated from the other activities and treated as a "profit-oriented" entity,
as foreseen in the proposed re-organization.



-10-
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
40.   The Bank's performance, like the borrowers', was satisfactory or better throughout (Table
1). The same task manager was responsible for the project from the time it was identified through
appraisal and presentation to the Board and throughout implementation until half a year before the
loan was closed. The borrowers, in their completion report, express appreciation that "the four-
year period of preparation of the Project provided a valuable platform for mutual understanding
and a large degree of trust." Supervision missions were conducted with appropriate frequency,
considering the satisfactory performance by the borrower. However, the borrowers cite, among
lessons learned, the need for more intensive Bank supervision during the first year of
implementation. They also argue for greater flexibility in procurement of computer hardware and
software (para. 34-35). They appreciated the enhanced access which their relations with the Bank
gave them to Bank-supported international seminars and training events.
41.   The three significant changes in project description are inadequately documented in the
supervision reports: the canceling of the MTME loan allocation for studies, the deleting of the
ZNTKS component, and major reallocation of the EIB co-financing. One would wish to see a
fuller record on these important developments.
42.   The borrower expressed dissatisfaction with the workings of the currency-pool loan
system, when the depreciation of the dollar against the pool in the mid-'90s led dollar-
denominated debt service payments to increase at short notice. This disrupted the Ministry's and
PKP's budgeting. They recommend that the Bank should brief borrowers more fully at the time
of loan negotiations on the implications of the pool system.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.   The project outcome is assessed as highly satisfactory overall. The project has
substantially met its institutional and physical objectives --with effective adaptation to changing
circumstances during implementation; sector policies have been substantially strengthened; and
these achievements are likely to be sustained. Not all expectations for private-sector development
have been met, but this is an experience common to countries in transition. Bank and borrower
performance were satisfactory or better in all areas rated (Table 1). The one issue for some
concern is PKP's financial situation, but it is better than that of many railways.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.   The studies conducted under Loan 3193 allowed the preparation of the program of road
rehabilitation implemented under the Roads Project (Loan 3564-POL for $150 million) signed in
1993. Likewise the national ports master plan study carried out under Loan 3193 laid the ground
for the Ports Access and Maintenance Project (Loan 4080-POL for $67 million) signed in 1996.
45.   The project's success, and the Ministry's vision in setting out a restructuring program for
the railway system as Poland approaches membership in the European Union, have laid the
groundwork for further IFI-supported operations in the railway subsector. The distinct mandates



-11-
of the IBRD, EBRD and EIB allow room for all. The Country Assistance Strategy has tentatively
programmed a loan for FY2000 to support the restructuring process. How best to do this
remains to be agreed. One option is to finance severance payments to surplus railway staff (which
EBRD and EIB, as a matter of policy, can not offer). This would have a high and rapid payback
to the extent it unblocked restructuring which would otherwise meet stiff opposition. A second
option, not mutually exclusive, is to finance upgrading of lines used by heavy coal traffic which,
under the open-access regime mandated by the new rail transport law (para. 11), would benefit
public and private train operating companies alike. It would also focus attention on the major
policy issue of fair charging for infrastructure use by competing carriers and the establishment of a
level playing field more generally. MTME prefers to limit use of sovereign guarantees to
infrastructure, for which it will retain responsibility. It rightly considers that the train operating
companies should bear the commercial risk of rolling stock. This proposal would be
complementary to lending by EBRD to private lessors of rolling stock; in Poland EBRD prefers
to lend without sovereign guarantees. EIB meanwhile is likely to pursue its mandate to finance
main international corridors linking Poland to EU territories, with sovereign guarantees.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.   The key lessons learned are:
(i) Like railways almost everywhere and especially in countries in transition, Polish railways
have undergone a severe shrinking of demand and the railway enterprise has found it hard
to adapt fast enough. Its continuing financial difficulties reflect a struggle, common to
almost all passenger railways, to reconcile traditional concepts of a monopoly public
service with modern concepts of a commercial transport enterprise facing vigorous
competition from other transport modes, especially road transport. Addressing this
conflict is central to Bank assistance to any railway and the difficulties should not be
under-estimated.
(ii) Against that norm, this project was conspicuously successful because of continuity of
policy and commitment by PKP and (especially) the Ministry of Transport.
(iii) Creation of the specialized unit for procurement within the railway, headed by someone
with international procurement experience, and the retention of that specialist throughout
implementation, was an immense help.
(iv) Continuity of task manager from the preparation phase through implementation yields
considerable benefits in terms of the efficiency and consistency of the Bank's role.
(v) PKP's experience of evaluating computer hardware and software under competitive
bidding was one of several cases which led the Bank to prepare specific procurement
guidelines for such items.



-12-
(vi)A broad initial project in a sector can prove valuable in opening the door for subsequent
lending operations which then pursue in more detail and in narrower fields the institutional
and policy reforms analyzed under the first operation.



-13-
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7A:  Studies Included in Project
Table 7B:  Studies Financed by Bilateral Grants
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs and Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assemsments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not
applicable
Sector Policies            xl                El                             El
Financial Objectives       EI E                                             E 
Institutional Objectives  El 0                               0        
Physical Objectives                          El a            o        
Poverty Reduction          a                 E               C        
Gender issues              E                 E               ol
Other social objectives   E                  E               E              W
Environmental Objectives    E                 El             El
Public Sector Management   i                  E              EEl
Private Sector Development   l               E               o              a
B. Project Sustainability     Likely                       Unlikely             Uncertain
El                            1E                  El
C. Bank Performance           Highly                      Satisfactory          Deficient
satisfactory
Identification             El                                               El
Preparation Assistance    EEl                                               El
Appraisal                                                 El                El
Supervision                                               El                El
D. Borrower Performance       Highly
satisfactory               Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation               El                              Ei                El
Implementation                                            El                El
Covenant Compliance                                       El                El
Operation (if applicable)                                 El                El
E. Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                            Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
o              El             oEl



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan Title                     Purpose             Year of Approval            Status
Preceding Operations
None
Following Operations
1. Roads             Road Rehabilitation              1993              2/3 implemented
2. Port Access &     Improving accesses to            1996           Initial procurement in
Management        ports of Szczecin-                                     process
Swinoujscie, Gdynia &
Gdansk
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 June 11, 1990
Preparation                                                                 Feb 5, 1989
Appraisal                                                                   May 2, 1989
Negotiations                                                                March 1990
Board presentation                                                          May 1, 1990
Signing                                                                    June 11, 1990
Effectiveness                                     Sept 11, 1990            Sept 11, 1990
Project completion                                June 30, 1995            Dec 31, 1996
Loan closing                                      Dec 31, 1995             Dec 31, 1996



-16-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(USS thousands)
Appraisal                   Actual As
IBRD Fiscal Year        Estimate       Actual    Percentage of
Estimate
(US$ thousands)
1991              5.50           3.17          57.6
1992              24.50         29.55         120.6
1993              65.50         51.12          78.0
1994             110.50         72.67          65.7
1995             148.50         101.77         68.5
1996             153.00         138.02         90.2
1997               0            149.21          0
Date of Final Disbursement: 04/97



-17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Responsible       Estimated                    Actual
1. Key implementation Indicators in SAR
1. Railway component              PKP               1993       Railway restructuring target not achieved
in FY93 due to cost exemptions granted.
2. Manufacture of track         ZNTKS               1994       80 manufacturing, maintenance and
maintenance                                                  construction units established.
machines
3. Manufacture of                ZWUS               1995       PKP's signal factory was privatized
signaling equipment                                          through a joint venture between
ZWUS/ABB
4. Highway component             GDDP               1995       Highway department was restructured
through the establishment of 240 road
construction and maintenance units as
independent enterprises.
5. Transport sector             MTME                1994       Port sector restructuring study completed.
studies                                                      Study on combined transport completed.
[I. Modified indicators
1. Restructuring                 PKP                1993       Slow progress due to lack of finances and
slow hiring of consultants.
2. Disbursement                PKP/ZWUS             1994       Lags behind appraisal forecast due to
reduction in ZWUS component.
3. Highway                       GDDP               1995       Pavement management system introduced
as well as axle load control. Road user
charges on fuel increased close to West
European levels.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                                  Actual
I. Key operating indicators in SAR
1. Railway       Rolling stock/track maintenance &   Significant progress made by July 1994. The new
repair; signaling & telecoms       railway law had been approved by Parliament and was
soon to be signed into law by Parliament.
2. Highway        Development of a pavement          Full data acquisition program planned for April 1994.
management system;                  Significant progress made in the development of a
Vehicle Operating Cost model for Polish conditions,
since the HDM III program supplied by the Bank was
said to be unsuitable.
3. Operating      Creation/development of an OMIS    Bid documents were prepared for six main financial
Management    system to ensure proper data flow in all  applications, terminals, printers and uninterrupted
Information     aspects of the project.            power supply. PKP had to revise the documents and
System                                             submit them before February 28, 1995.



-18-
Table 7a: Studies Carried out under
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT (Ln 3193 & 3194)
Approx.                                          Start
Title              cost         Donor          Consultant   |                        Impact
l________________ (US$000)  _                                            _End
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND MARITIME ECONOMY
Modified Rail Passenger        6.80       Polish       Research histitute   Jan.91  Helped clarify rail subsidy
Subsidy System                            State          of Transport         -     system and create law on
(82 MPLZ)       Budget          Economics        Dec. 92  reduced tariffs
Combined Transport       $0.2-0.25m    Netherlands       Nethconsult       Mar.91  Defined combined transport
Development                                                                    -    component in Roads Project
Jan.92  _
Road Transport                        The World Bank                                "Issues in CEE Land
Development                                                                         Transport"
__________  ______________   ________________     June     91
Road User Charges                         Polish       MT&ME, GDPR             -    Studies dropped after draft
State       and Ministry of     April92  inception report of MT&ME.
Budget          Finances                  Basis for increased fuel taxes
Improvement of            $0.1-0..2m     Sweden            "Activ"          July91  Helped MT&ME fulfill loan
Investment Analysis and                                   Business            -    obligations related to
Budget Procedures                                        Development        Feb.92  economic analysis
Partners
Highway Rehabilitation               The World Bank        EM41N                    Helped understand the road
and Maintenance in CEE                                     EMTIN            June91  administration as client of the
Bank
Road Network                  70.00   Polish Fund of     Danish Road        Dec.91  One of pilar basis for the
Development Strategy                    Technical       Administration        --   preparation of the Roads
Development                         June92  Project
Port Sector Study           1,500.00    Netherlands       Rotterdam         Sep.92  Provided basis for Port Access
in 1992                   Maritime Group         -    & Management Project and
Dec.94  Preparation of Port
and about                                                Modernisation Project
Pre and Feasibility         1,000.00                                        About
Studies                     in 1995                                         June97
Railway Restructuring          From   Japanese Grant       Mercer          May 95  Helping MT&ME define
848.00                     Management            -    strategy for restructuring rail
to                    Consulting Inc.     June97  subsector
1,325.00
(106MJPY2                                           ..



-19-
Table 7b: Studies Carried out under
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT (Ln 3193 & 3194)
Approx.                                          Start
Title              cost         Donor          Consultant          _                 Impact
.             ~~~~~(US$000)                                      Endl
POLISH STATE RAILWAYS
MIS development               62.00      Canada             CPCS            Sep.90  Specified the needs and initial
_    scope of the OMIS project
June91
OMIS Review                   52.00    Loan 3194-0         Coopers          July91  Reviewed and clarified the
&                -    CPCS report
Lybrand          Aug91                               l
Locomotive design &                     Switzerland      Elektrowatt        Aug.91  Proposed the new methods
maintenance                                              Engineering           -    of electric locomotive
Service Ltd.      April93  maintenance and
modemisation
Train formation &                        Austria         Austria Rail       Feb.91  Proposed new freight traffic
dispatching/marshalling                                  Engineering           -    organisation adjusted to market
yards                                                                       Oct..91  economy
'rransformation of PKP's                              *) ToR for another            According to the Governmental
Manufacturing & Affiliate                             study related to the          decisions 70 PKP's Units were
Units into Autonomous                                  restructuring of             transformed into separate
Enterprises*)                                          PKP was agreed               enterprises in Jul-Dec. 1991
E-20 Feasibility Study       148.00    Loan 3194-0       DE-Consult        Mar.92  Provided basis for E-20
-    modemisation (co-financed by
(220,000                                        May92  EIB and EBRD loans and
DEM)                                                  PHARE grant)
Study of PKP                 400.00      US TDA            Mercer          June92  Proposed the new rail
Restructuring                                            Managenent           --   sector organisation.
Consulting Inc.     May93  Base for the II stage of study
l _____________________               ______________   ________________              of    PK P   restructuring
Prepared by C&M Units
of MT&ME and PSR



-20-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                Actual
(USS million)                (USS million)
Component
Local costs Foreign    Total  Local costs Foreign    Total
costs                         costs
1. PKP                                 38.50  137.25     175.75    NA        142.53    NA
2. ZWUS                                 2.80   20.00      22.80    NA          0.74    NA
3. ZNTKS                                1.30    7.75       9.05    NA            0    NA
4. Other supply units                   0.00    0.00       0.00    NA         24.73    NA
Subtotal railway                    42.60  165.00      207.60             168.00
5. MTME                                 0.64    4.80       5.44    NA          0.21    NA
6. GDDP                                 0.26    3.20       3.46    NA          4.54    NA
Subtotal MTME                        0.90    8.00        8.90               4.75
TOTAL                               43.50  173.00     216.50              172.75
Notes
3. Canceled
4. Included in PKP at appraisal, legally independent later
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate               Actual
(USS million)               (US$ million)
Source
Local costs Foreign    Total   Local costs Foreign   Total
costs                        costs
1. IBRD                                       153.00                        149.75
2. European Investment Bank                    20.00                         23.00 *
3. Bilateral grants                             0.00                          5.15
4. Domestic contribution                       43.59                        NA
TOTAL                                         216.50                        NA
* ECU 20 million



-21-
Table 9a: Status of Legal Covenants
Poland
First Transport Project
Loan No. 3193-POL [latest report 1994 bto]
Covenant Present   Original
Agreement Section    Type    Status  Fulfillnent Description of Covenant      Comments
Date
Loan       3.02        M        OK                Govt. to establish project  Complied with
coordination unit.
Loan       4.01        F       OK                 Govt. to submit audit reports.  Report received for FY
1992 accounts.
Loan       4.02        T        OK      12/31/91   (i) Study of restructuring of    (i) Report received. Some
rail passenger subsidies.  reconunendations
implemented.
T       OK      12/31/91   (ii) Studies of: (a) road user   (ii) (a) Study undertaken
charges; (b) further       by PHARE; (b) study
development of road transport; completed; (c) study
and (c) expansion of combined  completed and pilot project
transport.                 undervay.
Loan       4.03        E       OK                 At least 20% of transport   About 65% of estimated
sector budget investment to be  budget for FY94 has been
subject to economic analyses   subjected to economic
in 1991, increasing by 15%  analyses.
p.a. to at least 80% by 1995.



-22 -
Table 9b: Status of Legal Covenants
Poland
First Transport Project
(Loan No. 3194-POL) [latest report in 590 1995]
Agree-          Covenant Present    Original
ment   Section    Type   Status    Fulfillment         Description of Covenant                    Comments
Date
Loan    3.02       5        C                  Government to establish project       Complied with.
coordination unit.
Loan   4.01         1       C                  Government to submit audit reports.   Report received for FY 1993 accounts.
Loan    4.02(a)   2,11     CD       12/31/91    Study of restructuring of rail passenger    Report received. Some recommendations
subsidies.                           implemented.
Loan    4.02(b)  2,10,11    CD      12/31/91    Studies of: (a) road user charges; (b)  (a) Study undertaken by PHARE; (b)
further development of road transport; and  study completed; (c) study completed and
(c) expansion of combined transport.  pilot project underway.
Loan    4.03       5        C                  At least 20% of transport sector budget    Complied with.
investment be subject to economic
analyses in 1991, increasing by 15% p.a.
to at least 80% by 1995.
Loan    3.02       5        C                  Establish: (i) a project management unit   Complied with.
within the PKP; (ii) procurement unit; and
(iii) technical unit in ZWUS.
Loan    4.01(b)    9        CP                 Achieve operational targets.         Four of the eight targets achieved for
1993. The others are marginally below
target.
Loan    5.01        1       C                  PKP to submit audit report by 9/30 for    Complied with for FY1993 accounts.
1990 and 1991 accounts and 6/30 for 1992
accounts onwards.
Loan    5.01        I       C                  ZWUS to submit audit report.          Complied with for FY1993 accounts.
Loan    5.02       2        C                  Debt service of not less than 1.3 for PKP.  Complied with for FY1993 accounts.
Loan    5.03(a)    2        CP                 Achieve on operating ratio, including  1993: Operating ratio (including subsidy)
subsidies of 103 in 1993, 100 in 1994, &    103, operating ratio (excluding subsidy)
99 from 1995 onwards, and an operating   122. Jan-Sept 1994: Operating ratio
ratio excluding subsidies of 124% in 1993, (including subsidy) 102, operating ratio
120 in 1994, and 119% from 1995     (excluding subsidy) 120.
onwards.
Loan    5.04/1      2       NC                 Investment limitation on ZWUS unless  Target not achieved in FY1993 due to
16% ROR achieved.                   restructuring cost-exemption granted.
Loan    5.0511      2        C                 ZWUS debt coverage of 1.3            Complied with for FY1993./I As ZWUS
is now a joint stock company, effectively
controlled by ABB, the ZWUS covenants
have limited applicability.
Covenant type:                                                                       Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                  8 = Indigenous people                         C   = Covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performanceirevenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting          CD = Complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries   10 = Project implementation not covered by     CP = Complied with partially
3    Flow and utilization of project funds  categories 1- 9                         NC = Not complied with
4 =  Counterpart funding              11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5 =  Management aspects of the project      other resource allocation
or executing agency             12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 =  Environmental covenants                policy/regulatory/institutional action
7 =  Involunary resettlement          13 = Other



- 23 -
Table lOa: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Actual
Stage of project cycle
Weeks   US$000  Weeks          US$
Preparation to appraisal                         132 2     60.8        163.6
Appraisal                                        136.2    62.4         181.2
Negotiations through Board approval      21.5      78.0    29.0         84.1
Supervision                            334..6    801.0   297.8         975.3
Completion                                8.0      10.6      3.9        18.6
Total                                364.1  1,158.0   453.9        990.5
Table lOb: Bank Resources: Missions
No. of  Days in                            Performance             Types of
Stage of project cycle      Month/Year  Persons    Field    Specialization              Rating 2             Problems 3
Implementation Development
status      objectives
Through appraisal              05/89         2        20           E,N               -              -             -
5/90        4         20        E,N,N,F
Appraisal - Board Approval
Board Approval - Effectiveness    12/90      5        20         E,N,N,F             -              -             -
Supervision I                   5/91         5        20        E,T,N,N,F            2              1             T
Supervision 11                 10/91         3        20          E,N,F              2              1             T
Supervision III                 2/92         3        20          N,E,F              2              1             T
Supervision IV                  11/92        4        10         E,N,N,F             2              2           T,M
Supervision V                   2/93         8        20    E,N,N,N,N,N,N,           2              2           T,M
Supervision VI                  4/93         5        20            F                2              2           T,M
Supervision Vll                 11/93        2        10       E,N,N,N,F             2              2           T,M
Supervision VIII                2/94         4        10           E,N               2              2           T,M
Supervision IX                  12/94        4        10        E,N,N,F              2              1             T
Completion Initiation           6/95         3        10         E,F,N,C             2              1             T
Implementation Completion       12/96                             E,F,N
1 - Specialization                      2 - Performance Rating                 3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturist                       1 = Minor problems                     F = Financial
E = Economist                           2 = Moderate Problems                  T = Technical
D = Education Specialist                3 = Major Problems                     M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N   Engineer
R = Forester






APPENDIX A
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
APPENDIX Al
POLISH RAILWAYS (LOAN 3194)






IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION
REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRANSPOR T - RAIL WA YS
LOAN NO 3194-0 POL
Warsaw, March 20, 1997



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRANSPORT - RAILWAYS
LOAN NO 3194-0 POL
Prepared by                              Polish State Railways (PKP)
Project Name                             First Transport Project
Transport - Railways
Loan Number                              3194-0 POL
Signature Date                          June 11, 1990
Effectiveness Date                       September 11, 1990
Total Loan Amount                        USD 145,000,000
Co-financing                             European Investment Bank
Finance Contract No 1.4723
Signature Date             July 12, 1990
Effectiveness Date         March 12, 1991
Total Loan Amount          ECU 20,000,000
2



Overall Project objectives were to:
* help PKP to evolve into modern transport enterprise adapted to market economy
requirements and international technical standards,
* introduce more efficient modern internal management systems and maintenance procedures
as well as the equipment necessary to support this,
* train PKP managers in modern management techniques,
* improve economical, financial and operational performance of PKP enterprise.
I.  SCOPE OF RAILWAY PART OF THE PROJECT
Railway part of the Project originally defined in Staff Appraisal Report comprised
elements summarized below:
A.   POLISH STATE RAILWAYS
1. Introduction of modern track maintenance technologies:
a. procurement of track maintenance machines.
2. Production of track maintenance materials:
a. installation of elastic fastening manufacturing facility,
b. installation of concrete sleepers and turnouts manufacturing facilities,
c. increased production of turnouts of higher durability,
d. setting up facilities for reconditioning and welding of old rails,
e. installation of flash-butt welding technology for rail joints.
3. Repair and maintenance of rolling stock:
a. increased manufacturing capacity of electric locomotives repair depots,
b. introduction of modular system of coal car repairs,
c. modernization of brake shoe manufacturing facility.
4. Signalling:
a. procurement of diagnostic and measuring equipment for maintenance units.
5. Telecommunications:
a. improvement of data processing and transmission networks.
6. Operating Management Information System of PKP Enterprise:
a. development and procurement of computer hardware and software as well as technical
equipment.
3



7. Studies:
a. rationalization of train formation and marshaling yards,
b. optimalization of design, maintenance and operation of electric locomotives in Poland,
c. operating management information system of PKP enterprise,
d. other studies.
8. Institution building:
a. training of PKP management professionals.
B. ZNTK STARGARD (Rolling Stock Repair Unit in Stargard):
a. modernization of rolling stock repair unit through procurement of modem facilities,
b. know-how transfer to ZNTK - license for manufacturing versatile track and turnouts
maintenance machine.
C. ZWUS KATOWICE (Signaling Equipment Manufacturing Unit in Katowice):
a. modernization of signaling equipment manufacturing unit through procurement of modern
facilities,
b. cast iron foundry,
c. training of ZWUS professionals.
CHANGES IN PROJECT COMPONENTS
At the time when the Loan Agreement with the World Bank as well as Finance Contract with
European Investment Bank were signed the Project funds were earmarked for the components
specified in Section A above to be implemented by PKP units as well as manufacturing and
repair works incorporated into PKP organizational structure, which are listed below:
WPS (Concrete Sleepers Manufacturing Units) in Mirostaw Ujski, Goczalk6w and Suwalki as
well as KZN (Turnouts Manufacturing Units) in Skalmierzyce, Bydgoszcz and Krakow
(components specified in Section A 2);
ZNTK (Rolling Stock Repair Units) in Minisk Mazowiecki, Olesnica and Bydgoszcz, and
ZNLE (Electric Locomotives Repair Unit) in Gliwice (components specified in Section A 3).
Components specified in Sections B and C related to independent plants manufacturing
materials exclusively for PKP purposes: ZNTK Starosielce and ZWUS Katowice, which were
to become joint stock companies.
Under Decrees of the Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy issued between July and
December 1991, over 70 PKP servicing units were separated from PKP structure including
those, which were to benefit from the World Bank and European Investment Bank loans. As a
result of such basic organizational changes, new methods of extending loan funds to former
PKP units had to be agreed.
4



Subsequently, PKP developed the model of on-lending agreement for relevant funds, which
was agreed upon by the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy, Ministry of Finance as
well as the World Bank and European Investment Bank.
In early 1992, PKP entered into on-lending agreements with the above mentioned units. These
agreements were approved by the World Bank in form of ,,no objection" in January 1993 and
by the European Investment Bank (in form of Amendment No 1 to Finance Contract No
1.4723) in October 1992.
Several now autonomous units verified amounts to be on-lent. ZNTK Stargard declined to take
the World Bank funds and ZNTK Bydgoszcz resigned from EIB loan. ZWUS, after
reorganization and becoming ABB ZWUS, significantly reduced relevant amount.
Majority of studies included in Staff Appraisal Report was financed under bilateral grant
agreements. As a result of the Decrees of the Minister of Transport and Maritime Economy,
originally planned study of transforming PKP units into autonomous plants was replaced with
PKP Restructuring Study.
Consequently, amounts freed from the loan were allocated to procurement of additional truck
maintenance machines and increased the scope of the Management Information System.
Table 1 (Enclosure No 1) provides details on original (according to Staff Appraisal Report)
and actual allocation of loan funds to the Project components (formally approved by the World
Bank in May 1995), which takes into account current implementation status of all contracts.
Item A3 in Table 1 relates to the component financed from EIB loan.
Original allocation of Loan funds also changed in this respect. Funds to be used by ZNTK
Bydgoszcz (resigned from the loan) and originally allocated to modular system of coal car
repair and brake shoe manufacturing facility were expedited under new, additional Project
component - Modernization of Telecommunication Network of PKP, which included
procurement of digital communication exchange stations, fiber-optic wires and related
transmission facilities.
Amendment No 2 introduced this change into Finance Contracts with EIB.
5



II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS
Following the World Bank recommendations, in the fall of 1990 PKP Director General
established ,,Team for preparation of PKP investment projects implemented with the World
Bank and EIB assistance". The team was created out of directors of PKP units benefiting from
both Loans and was chaired by PKP Deputy Director General.
Coordination of cooperation with the World Bank and the European Investment Bank was
entrusted to Secretariat of the Team, which was also held responsible for direct contacts with
the Banks.
During first years of Project implementation, the Team held monthly sessions discussing
current implementation status of all Loan components and implementation timetable for the
next period.
For the purposes of managing international procurement financed from the World Bank and
EIB Loans, PKP established a specialized foreign procurement unit within FERPOL Foreign
Trade Bureau set up in 1986. Operational expert teams were established in each PKP entity
benefiting from the Loans. They comprised professionals responsible for cooperation with
Ferpol in:
- preparation of tender documents,
. evaluation of tenders,
* contract preparation and negotiations, as well as for
v supervision over procurement, installation and commissioning of equipment.
For the purposes related to the implementation of MIS component, in March 1991 PKP
Director General set up Decision-making Body and Coordinating Body. Coordinating Body
was composed of representatives of all units involved in the implementation of the system.
Financial coordination was entrusted to professionals of PKP Financing Bureau.
The Project benefited greatly from clear system of competencies and responsibilities as well as
close supervision over implementation of proposed Project timetable.
PKP professionals involved in Project implementation participated in the number of training
programs aimed not only at introduction of the World Bank procedures necessary to carry out
the Project but also provided valuable insights into international accounting standards,
investment viability analysis or financial forecasting.
It should be underlined that in this respect PKP owes very much to personal involvement of the
World Bank officials who shared their experiences and skills not only during specialized
seminars but most of the time during supervision missions
6



Within the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy, the Project was coordinated by
Coordinating and Monitoring Unit for the First Transport Project, an important link providing
overall monitoring of technical and financial actions undertaken during Project implementation
as well as grounds for common actions of all parties involved in the implementation of the First
Transport Project - Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy,
General Directorate of Public Roads and Polish State Railways.
GENERAL DA TA ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTA TION
The total number of contracts concluded under First Transport Project by FERPOL was 43
contracts financed from the World Bank Loan and 20 contracts financed from EfB Loan.
Table 2 (Enclosure No 2) shows all contracts implemented under the World Bank Loan.
Table 2a (Enclosure No 3) shows all contracts implemented under EEB Loan.
Column 6 in Table 1 shows contract numbers, which also appear in Tables 2 and 2a
providing easy reference.
Table 3 (Enclosure No 4) shows disbursement of both loans during implementation period.
Project was expected to be completed before June 31, 1995 and the Loan Agreement provided
for the Closing Date on December 31, 1995. However, due to implementation delays (PKP
had to cancel one of the international competitive bidding and repeat it) PKP requested the
extension of implementation period.
On September 8, 1995, the World Bank agreed to extend the Loan Closing Date to December
31, 1996 and in December 1996 the Bank agreed to cover the payments for delivery of goods
and services carried out before the Loan Closing Date if the payment was made before April
30, 1997, which will facilitate final disbursements under the Loan.
EIB Loan was disbursed in four tranches before the Loan Closing Date.
DESCRIPTION OF COMPONENTS IMPLEMENTED UNDER THE PROJECT
In view of the extensive variety of Project scope, issues and problems, the following section
summarizes:
* detailed objectives,
* their achievement,
* lessons from initial operation,
* evaluation of Borrower performance,
* evaluation of Bank performance
in relation to each Project component specified in Section 1.
7



Ad. A.1 and 2 - Imnrovement in truck maintenance
Objectives
Basic final objective of these components was to achieve and maintain the high level of
technical standard and full transit capacity of Polish international and express lines following
PKP needs and international agreements (AGC, AGTC), of which Poland is a party.
Achieving and maintaining proposed quality parameters (speed of 160 km/h and higher axle
load of 22.5 t per axle) involved not only introduction of new high quality track materials but
also adequate track maintenance machines warranting high productivity and necessary track
lying accuracy. Detailed aims of each of the subcomponents are described below.
Ad. la.     In order to secure high level of track performance on priority maintenance
standard lines (12,000 km) PKP had to introduce new technologies of complex current repairs
and continuous truck exchange. To achieve this aim, PKP had to renew its machine fleet which
had been deficient.
Similarly, virtual lack of truck laying machines of high accuracy, quality and productivity
required new modern machine set for continuous track laying. Adequate machines were
procured in two stages - in 1990 and in 1994 (using loan amounts freed by other railway units).
Ad. 2a.     The quality of manufacturing of elastic rail fastenings depends greatly on the
quality of steel. To measure chemical profile of steel PKP had to equip production lines in
adequate measuring equipment. Such equipment was procured for KZN Skalmierzyce, sole
manufacturer of elastic fasteners for PKP needs.
Ad. 2 b and c.    PKP needs related to turnouts manufacture and fabrication of sleepers of
higher durability as well as concrete sleepers for turnouts could only be met through
introduction of modern methods of production.
It required direct import of high productivity millers for turnout elements for KZN Bydgoszcz,
KZN Krak6w as well as complex technological lines for production of sleepers and turnouts
for WPS Suwalki, Miroslaw Ujski and Goczalk6w.
Ad. 2d.     Necessity of economizing steel could be achieved only through re-use of old
rails. Implementation of full reconditioning technology including straightening out and
grinding the rail table enabled to use them according to technical specifications for longer
periods before scrapping. Depending on the load carried, level of wear, number of welds,
reconditioned rails could be used on main lines with maximum speed of 120 km/h.
Modernization of welding unit in Bydgoszcz through introduction of modern equipment and
machines enabled reconditioning of rails, which was co-financed from the World Bank Loan.
Ad. 2e.            To increase rail life and technical standards it was necessary to introduce
modern technology of flash butt welding of heat treated rails, which enabled higher
productivity, accuracy and quality of new welded rails. This objective was achieved through
procurement of rail welders and grinders for rail welding plants in Kedzierzyn and Skarzysko,
which was co-financed from the World Bank Loan.
8



Implementation
Main objectives of Project components specified in points A I and 2 have been achieved -
installation of whole production plants, equipment and machines. They have been adequately
commissioned and are operative.
Apart from actual procurement of equipment, their achievement (except for point la) required
a number of supporting actions related to construction of halls and facilities and basic
infrastructure systems.
Such complex assignments involving several subcontractors, particularly in introduction of
technological systems for reconditioning of rails, resulted in delays in operation of investments.
Some implementation delays occurred also in manufacturing lines of concrete sleepers, which
resulted from introduction of necessary improvements for consecutive manufacturing lines.
Table 4 shows procured machines and delivery deadlines for each above mentioned
component.
9



Table 4
No   Project Component           Supplier       Type of Machine    Number  Delivery
(Item from                                      Deadline
Table 2)
1             2                    3                   4                          6
la  Modem technologies for      Plasser and   track tamping machine      8     Aug9,91
track maintenance            Theurer
(Item 2)    dynamic stabilizer         8     Mar3 1,92
turnout tamnping
machine                   4
Plasser and   track tamping machine     1      Oct31,95
Theurer
(Item 36)    dynamic stabilizer        I      Mar4,96
turnout tamping
machine                   6
Matisa     track re-laying machine    I      Dec2O,95
(Item 35)    set
2a  Equipment for elastic rail    Hlger       measuring equipment        I      Mar26,93
fastening system            (Item 18)    for chemical profiles
2b  Manufacturing lines for      STIARM       machine set for            3      Augl3,93
track and tumout sleepers   (Item 12)    technological line
Jun3O,95
2c  Increased manufacturing of    Coburg      milling machines for       2      Jun29,93
turnouts of higher          (Item 11)    turnout elements
durability                                      .                          Ju18,93
2d  Reconditioning and            Geismar     grinders for welds         5      Jul 15,92
welding of old rails         (Item 4)
machines for              2      Mar24,93
straightening rails
press for welds           I
machines for gringing
rail-ends                 2      Octl6,92
measuring and marking
qeuipment                 2      Dec4 92
2e  Flush butt welding of heat  Bahnbedarf   rail welding machine        3     Nov2,92
treated rails                (Item 3)
.____ _____ _____ ____   __ __ _ __ __  Jan25,93
Lessonsfrom Initial Operation
As early as during initial stages of operations, target performance indicators concerning
predictability, accuracy and quality were met with the only exception of old rails reconditioning
line, where planned productivity level was not fully achieved. This is a direct consequence of
necessity to weld only I class rails, in highest demand under current market conditions, which
in turn entails more difficult selection and assortment of old rails, higher accuracy and quality.
The result - lower productivity of reconditioning line.
On the other hand, machines and equipment purchased for the reconditioning and welding
facility, apart from occasionally repairs, fulfill target requirements in terms of accuracy as well
as predictability.
10



Full operation of undertaken investments is conditioned upon adequate level of PKP demand
as function of the level of PKP truck maintenance and investment activity.
The following Table 5 shows detailed statistics of track maintenance activity in 1991-1996.
Table 5
Rail replacements   Total  truck     864.5     425.1     265.9     573.1       820      854.7
of which priority lines    km    767.1     403.9      237       546.5     685.4     712.7
Replacements of sleepers  thousand   1524.8    778.6      914      891.8    1168.3    1319.9
1299.1    697.5     810.2      832.3     946.7    1096.5
Replacement and  suppl.    m3        793.5     297.6     371.7     472.4    1013.9    944.5
broken stone            thousand    752.1      200.5     272.9     359.3      762.9     807.8
Replacement of turnouts   units      2404      1901      2204       1885      1991       1763
1361      1238      137.1     1138       965       919
Daily truck maintenance   truck km   13.24     15.95     13.93      14.13     12.49     12.63
thousand    10.08     12.98     11.67     11.34      9.74      10.41
Speed restr. on lines     units      492        477       437       396       495        558
312       333       308       285        409       461
Speed restr. on turnouts  units      320        228       166        81        120       131
239       177       121        56        110       117
Train accidents on truck  units       73        34         37        29        20        29
44        24        26        25         13        14
Train accidents on        units       44        45        27         16         2         13
turnouts               I_ _           25        15        25         15         2         4
1993 was the breakthrough year, since that year annual increase in truck maintenance can be
observed - one of the benefits of investment activity under the First Transport Project.
Traffic safety reflected in limited number of accidents has also increased.
Evaluation of Borrower Performance
Tender procedure was carried out efficiently and without delays.
Also performance of direct beneficiaries - PKP truck maintenance units as well as KZNs and
WPSes can be rated as satisfactory during preparation as well as actual implementation of the
Project.
Beneficiaries were satisfactory and timely prepared to install and activate machines and
equipment, which required a number of preparation works such as: construction of production
halls, workshops, laying foundations and facilities under specifications required by suppliers,
training staff in operation of new machines and equipment, and providing space and materials
necessary for new equipment to be tested and become operational.
Evaluation of Bank Performance
Close cooperation with Bank professionals in preparation of bidding documents warranted
their high quality and resulted in better selection of well-known, outstanding suppliers that
implemented contracts without major problems.
11



Lessos Learned
It might be profitable to have the possibility of implementing such large and complex projects
during longer period of time and as much as possible by one selected general supplier.
Ad. A.3 - EIB FINANCED COMPONENT
Acd A.3a - Modernization of rolling stock repair units
Objectives
Funds of EIB loan were allocated towards introduction of modern repair technologies in
Rolling Stock Repair Units, enabling repairs of electric locomotives under standards similar to
technologies and routines used by western European railway companies which warranty
significantly higher durability and operational reliability in addition to increased work safety
and improved environmental characteristics.
lmplementation
Amount originally allocated for rolling stock repair units - ECU 9.41 million - was initially,
after separation of units into independent entities, limited to ECU 4.70 million, and then,
during implementation of contracts, to ECU 4.00 million.
As it was previously mentioned, ZNTK Bydgoszcz resigned from the EIB loan and other units
significantly reduced the amounts to be on-lent, which created a gap between loan amount and
final allocations in the amount of ECU 15.3 million (which increased to ECU 16.0 million
during implementation of ZNTK contracts).
Table 2a in items 1- 12 specifies contracts covered by EIB loan.
Tables 6, 6a, 6b below specifies machines purchased for each Rolling Stock Repair Unit and
their current use.
Machines Procured for ZNLE Gliwice
Table 6
No    Specification      Supplier       Start      Annual    Number of   %
of      technical    machines    of
operation  capacity (two  repaired till  use
shifts)      now
I  Cleaner          PROCECO -        31.12.94      3204        2227      34.7
CANADA
2  Laminator and    CAM - USA         31.12.*94     96          46       23.9
countershaf                                    _
3  Counterbalancer   SCHENK -        31.12.94      3204        2227      34.7
___________  GERMANY                       I _
12



4  Bellows heater    SKF - POLAND   29.04.95        6408         4564      42.7
5  High voltage      BAKER-USA    31.12.94          6408         5683      44.3
meters
6  Equipment for     HOLTRADE -    31.12.94  1100 runners        426       19.3
impregnation and  GERMANY                     300 compl.       46       7.6
polymerization                                 winding
200 coils of    69        17.2
main fuse
200 coils of    61        15.2
meas. fuse
7  Equipment    for ISOVOLTA-         31.12.94      801          426       26.5
pressure-vacuous   GERMANY
impregnation
8  Equipment for     MICAMATION    29.04.95         267          333       74.8
welding and
milling
9  Analyzer       + SPM -             31.12.94      6408         5683      44.3
Stethoscope      AUSTRIA
Machines procured for ZNTK Minsk Mazowiecki
Table 6a
No    Specification       Supplier       Start      Annual    Number of   %
of      technical    machines    of
operation  capacity (two  repaired till  use
shifts)      now
I  Cleaner (2 units)   PROCECO-       31.01.95      5280         4098       40
CANADA
2  Laminator and     CAM - USA        31.01.95      3200         1419       18
countershaft
3  Milling machine    CAM - USA       31.01.95      1200         735        25
4  Counterbalancer   SCHENK-          31.08.93      2268         759        10
__________  GERMANY                             _
5  Press for coils   STOLBERG -    31.10.93   48000 pcs.   70800 pcs.   52
GERMANY  _
6  Bellows heater    SKF-POLAND    31.01.95         4200         4098       50
7  High voltage      BAKER- USA    31.10.93         7200         5060       22
meters
8  Equipment for     HOLTRADE -    30.04.94         1584         900        22
impregnation and  GERMANY
____ polymerization
9  Equipment for    ISOVOLTA -          06.94       2112         1474       28
pressure-vacuous   GERMANY
impregnation
10 Equipment for     CAM -USA          24.06.94     1056          280       11
welding and
milling
13



Machines procured for ZNTK Olenica
Table 6b
No    Specification       Supplier       Start      Annual    Number of   %
of       technical    machines    of
operation  capacity (two  repaired till  use
shifts)      now
I  Cleaner          PROCEDO -         30.08.94      1848        2420       56
__________       CANADA
2  Laminator and     CAM - USA        30.08.94       528         504        40
countershaft
3  Boring machine    WIPOFAMA          15.11.95     1056         952        80
for track engines
3  Counterbalancer   CEMB -           15.10.93      5280         3780       23
___________  ITALY
5  High voltage      BAKER-           30.08.94     21000         2700       5
meters           GERMANY                   _                  __ _
6  Equipment for     HOLTRADE -          not          -           -         -
impregnation and   GERMANY        operational
polymerization                                           .
7  Equipment for     ISOVOLTA -          not          -           -
pressure-vacuous   GERMANY        operational
impregnation
8  Equipment for     CAM - USA        30.09.94      528          448        35
welding and
milling
Timetables of tender process, actual delivery and commissioning were kept. Dates of start of
operations for each piece of equipment are specified in the above tables.
Total amount disbursed for this component of the Project added up to ECU 4,003,444.40
according to recalculations made by EIB pursuant to Finance Contract.
Lessons from Initial Operation
Information submitted by ZNTKs shows that operation of the equipment procured under the
EIB Component goes smoothly without any objections. During two years period of initial
operation there were no damages or repairs noticed.
Actual use of capacity of the equipment is on the level from 12 to 70%. Such low level of use
is the result of significantly lower demand for repairs of PKP electric rolling stock, which in
turn results from sharp drop in PKP traffic in comparison with traffic level estimated at Project
appraisal.
14



Ad A. 3e - Modernization of Telecommunication Network
Objectives
Pursuant to Annex 2 to Finance Contract with EIB, components A3b and A3c were replaced
by a new component of the Project - A3e in the amount of ECU 15.3 million, covering:
* construction of fiber optic main telecommunication lines
(with associated transmission facilities)                    - ECU 5.5 million
* automatic exchanges                                          - ECU 9.8 million
Main target of contracts signed within that frame was construction of 11 main automatic
exchanges connected through digital teletransmitting system facilities SDH/PDH using fiber
optic wires for the purposes of informatic transmission.
They are a component of program for digitalization of telecommunication network, which is
being implemented currently by PKP.
Implenmentation
Table 2a, in items 13-20, specifies contracts within that Project component.
Contracts specified under item 18, 19 and 20 of Table 2a are under implementation. Table 7
below shows status of their implementation.
Table 7
Supplier                  Amounts paid               Amounts to be paid
I KAPSCH                     ATS 98,109,351.30         ATS 51,985,677.70
2  ERICSSON                  SEK 1,159,356.50           SEK 421,088.50
3  ALCATEL                   *ECU 542,960.60            Since the EfIB loan is fully
disbursed and conmriitted, PKP is
covering the balance of payment
___________________________  .__________________________    with   its  own   funds
= amount financed from the EIB loan.
I) Under contract with KAPSCH, automatic exchange in Katowice knot was installed and
became operational in August 1996.
In 1996, the supplier delivered equipment for construction of remaining 10 automatic
exchanges. Till now, 65.4% of contract amount have been paid and 79.1% of equipment
have been delivered (20% of the contract amount is covered by the performance bond).
The Bank recovered complete documentation of the contract covered by the letter of credit.
The process of reconciliation covering total contract amount is ongoing, as the payments
under the letter of credit become due.
Proposed timetable of automatic exchanges installation has not been met due to, among
others, longer than expected testing of conformity with existing telecommunication network
of PKP.
Final, generally positive results of the tests have been supported by commissioning and
testing of first exchange in Katowice, which became operational almost nine months after
the date stipulated in the contract.
Current status of works enables all exchanges to become operational on telecommunication
network in first quarter of 1998.
15



2) In 1996, part of planned teletransmitting lines became operational, equipped with materials
PCM-30 purchased and supplied under contract with ERICSSON. The contract was
implemented only on lines supporting SDH/PDH systems.
Till now, 73.40% of contract amount have been paid (ATS 1,159,356.59) and 90.5% of
equipment have been delivered
The Bank recovered complete documentation of the contract covered by the letter of credit.
The process of reconciliation covering total contract amount is ongoing, as the payments
under the letter of credit become due.
The contract with Ericsson complements Alcatel and Kapsch contracts, which are of
fundamental importance for the program of digitizing telecommunication network of PKP.
Precondition for implementation of the contract (utilization of PCM-30 equipment) was
adequate preparation of SDH lines, on the basis of which teletransmission lines of 2 Mbit/s
capacity connecting traditional exchanges with digital exchanges were periodically
established (until traditional exchanges are replaced) as well as for KOLPAK system.
Generally, the contract has been completed on time. The only payment to be released
concerns commissioning of the equipment and teletransmission lines.
3) Previously installed, commissioned and operative systems supported SDH/PDH systems
through equipment supplied by ALCATEL POLSKA S.A. - in three of eleven knots and
in seven directions out of total of twelve.
63.3% of the equipment has been delivered.
The Bank approved for payments from the Loan the amounts totaling ECU 542,960.60
(35.86% of the contract price).
The deficit is to be financed under PKP budget.
The target is to have the network based on Alcatel equipment constructed and operational
before April 30, 1997.
Originally formulated scope of that Project component is being implemented according to a set
of assumptions. Due to longer implementation period for the construction of automatic
exchanges and teletransmission systems, contract completion dates have been extended and
that is the only thing that has been changed. The reasons for this are stipulated above.
It should be underlined however that, both under the contract with Kapsch as well as the
contract with Alcatel, designs of teletransmission systems had to be changed. In our opinion,
such basic change during implementation is possible only if it doesn't affect the contract value,
and that was the case in this component.
Several other changes to be implemented during project realization have been agreed with
Kapsch, such as increasing the capacity of Katowice automatic exchange. Related increase in
contract price will be financed from PKP budget.
16



Thus, EIB financed foreign costs related to modernization of telecommunication network in
the amount of:                                   ECU 15,996,555.60
of which:
Fiber optic cables                               ECU 3,794,401.93
Teletransmission facilities                      ECU   759,541.72
Automatic exchanges                              ECU 11,442,611.95
Evaluation of Borrower and Bank Berformance
Flexible position of the Bank during introduction of new Project component positively affected
smooth implementation of the whole Project and enabled final allocation of all loan finds.
The Bank approved for refinancing under this Project component expenditures already made
by PKP in 1991 and 1992 related to procurement of fiber optic cables, which also positively
influenced disbursement schedule under the Loan.
Delays in implementation of the modernization of telecommunication network were the results
of complex, multi-staged process of tender evaluation and selection of the supplier for digital
automatic exchanges for PKP and prolonged period of testing the adaptability of exchanges to
the existing telecommunication system of PKP.
The Bank also assisted in this respect, including consultant services related to independent
evaluation of tenders into financial structure of the Project (Contracts no 13 and 14 in Table
2a).
Ad 4- Signalling
Objectives
Approved by the Management of PKP program for development of PKP telecommunication
system for years 1991-2005 required specialized equipment for technical divisions of PKP
Automation and Telecommunication Unit.
Due to virtual lack of measuring equipment necessary for the construction and maintenance of
digital systems that were being implemented on PKP network, PKP had to acquire modern,
accurate devices.
An amount of USD 3.95 million was originally allocated for procurement of measuring
instruments.
Control and measuring instruments were to be acquired for program of data transmission
digital network implemented by PKP.
Implementation
Related procurement were carried out in two stages in 1992 and 1994. In the final stage of
Project implementation, the Bank agreed to include also additional contract with SIMENS,
originally excluded from the Project because of scarc,ity of loan funds.
17



In total, the amount of USD 2.83 million financed procurement of instruments for
measurement and tests of digital automatic exchanges, teletransmission lines and radio
transmitters.
Because of the great variety of small in size and less expensive equipment, the list of
instruments procured under the Project has not been enclosed.
Table 2, in items 7-10, 21-30 and 43, specifies contracts implemented within this Project
component.
The contracts were implemented timely with smooth delivery of ordered instruments,
according to pre-established assumptions.
Ad S and 6 - Telecommunication Equipment and OMIS
Objectives
Main objectives of the Project related to information were to:
1. establish back-bone information infrastructure for the proposed OMIS component
(Operating Management Information System):
* data transmission network,
* information network (servers + terminals),
2. adopt unified methodology of undertaking information projects,
3. introduce modern methods, techniques and equipment for creation and management of
information systems.
Additionally, procurement of ready-made and practically verified throughout the world
financial and information system (FMIS) was to provide PKP with modem and efficient tool in
management of whole enterprise.
The World Bank initiated actions to include this system under the Project.
Inmplententadon
General objectives has been met to large extent, although quantifiable effects for PKP
enterprise would be visible only in the near future.
In teletransmission, introduction and operation of KOLPAK network enabled PKP to bring
teletransmisision services to significantly higher standards similar to those existing in other
modern railway enterprises.
Procurement and installation of computer network hardware for OMIS and FMIS is nearly
completed. Currently it is becoming operative and first applications of OMIS will start running
this year.
In information, modem methods of project management and new methodology for
implementation of Summit-D systems have been introduced along with various techniques and
tools supporting development of information systems on each stage of their life cycle.
Thus, it became possible to carry out the detailed engineering of unified and integrated
information systems in diffused environment - a significant change for better in comparison
with previous practice.
18



At the same time, comprehensive training programs for majority of PKP professionals in the
areas of information analysis, information system designs, programming and system
management were carried out.
Tables 8 -14 below specify computer hardware procured under the Loan and contracts for
consultant services.
1. Contract with DATELCOMP - item 13 in Table 2
Delivery of equipment for PKP divisions of information analysts and designers, specified in
Table 8.
Table 8
No                        Specification                          Quantity
1   Workstation PC 386                                             30
2   Server PC 486                                                   6
3   Filters for Monitors                                            30
4   Notebook                                                        1
5   LAN Analyzer                                                    1
6   A3 scanner                                                      1
7   Hand scanner                                                    6
8   CD-ROM                                                          6
9   OKI Printers with paper feeder                                  30
10  Laser printer A3                                                 1
11   Plotter                                                        6
12  Plotter DMP AO                                                   1
13   AC Adapter                                                     6
14  Laser printer PS-35                                             6
15   Disk Matrix                                                    6
2. Contract with LBMS - item 14 in Table 2
Delivery of Systems Engineer software application for analysts, along with training and
consultations.
3. Contract with COOPERS & LYBRAND - item 15 in Table 2
Delivery of SUMMIT-D methodology along with associated training and consultations.
4. Contract with SPRINT - item 16 in Table 2
Delivery of equipment for KOLPAK network specified below, along with associated
training and consultations.
Table 9
No                        Specification                          Quantity
I   Knot TP 4954                                                    10
1)   Knot TP 4944                                                   75
3   Knot TP 10-8                                                   101
19



4   Knot TP 1-16 16
5   Cabinet                                                            85
6   Modem Rack                                                         85
7   Modem DLX V.32                                                    1200
8   Asynchronic cables                                                1124
9   Synchronic cables                                                 1124
10   V. 35 cables                                                     268
11   NMS (TP5840)                                                      2
12   Schiumberger                                                      2
13   HP Protocol Analyzer                                              2
14   Laptop PC                                                         2
15   Chassis                                                           3
16   NMS (TP5820)                                                       2
17   MHS                                                                I
18   Modem Comlink VI                                                  50
19   NHM (TP5810)                                                      3
20   FAX SEUERS (OAZ)                                                   3
21   MHS Fax Delivery Port                                              6
22   MHS Telex Delivery Port                                           14
23   Store & Forward Fax                                                1
24   Port Frame Relay                                                   4
5. Contract with DIGITAL - item 19 in Table 2
Delivery of basic computer hardware (servers) for OMIS system, basic software
applications, Oracle database management system, associated equipment for PKP units of
programmers and software designers, along with associated training and consultations,
specified in Table 10.
Table 10
No                         Specification                            Quantity
I   Territorial Pair 2x ALPHA 2100                                    36
2   Central Server ALPHA 7610                                          1
3   Disaster Server ALPHA 7610                                         1
4   Development System Pair 2x ALPHA 2100                              1
5   Central Server Emulator ALPHA 2100                                 1
6   Centrum Management System 2x ALPHA AXP300                          I
7   Development System Terminals (PC)                                 65
8   User Terminals (PC)                                               36
9   Oracle Case Tools Software                                         20
10   Oracle PC User RT Licensed Software                                1
11   Distribution Sets and Documentation                               3
12   LBMS-Oracle Bridge Software                                        1
13   Digital Microcomputers for network and development of             101
applications (several configurations)
14  DModem ASTER 4TT                                                   102
20



6. Contract with COOPERS & LYBRAND - item 20 in Table 2
Delivery of consultant services for PKP unit developing requirements to be fulfilled by
Financial Management Information System
7. Contract with COOPERS & LYBRAND - item 33 in Table 2
Delivery of training and consultant services in managament of projects, application of
methods and techniques of system development as well as information solutions in use in
railway enterprises.
8. Contract with ELTECO - item 38 in Table 2
Delivery of uninterrupted power supply facilities for OMIS servers, which are specified
below.
Table 11
No                         Specification                           Quantity
I   UPS SM 10 (lOkVA130')                                            20
2   UPS ST 45 (45 kVA/20')                                            11 
3   Power Supply Unit TORINO 5.E (125 kVA)                            9
4  | Power Supply Unit TORINO 6.B (250 kVA)                           3
5  1 Power Supply Unit TORINO 4.N (63 kVA)                            7
9. Contract with SUMMIT - item 39 in Table 2
Delivery of modems and telecommunication equipment for OMIS terminals, along with
training and technical assistance, specified below in Table 12.
Table 12
No                         Specification                           Quantity
1. Modems
1   3268 SDC V34 V35RM                                               160
2   3268 SDC V34 V24RM                                               200
3   3266 SDC V34 V24SA                                               200
4   3268 V34 V24 RM                                                  1945
5   3266 V32b V24SA tp8/14.4                                         670
6   3266 V34 V24SA term28.8                                          2115
7   3266 V32b V24SA terml4.4                                         670
8   Comlink VI                                                       400
9   SRM-8 (female)                                                   520
10   SRM-8 (male)                                                     80
11   G703-V35                                                         100
2. Modem Cases
12   Large Case                                                       10
13   Small Case                                                       80
14   Shelves                                                          100
15   Assembly Kit for Modem Frames RM2-2                              60
16  3. Modem Frames                                                   190
14a. Cables for Frames (excl. MMS)
21



17   15m 34pin to node HYY5                                          160
18   7m 34pin to node HYY7                                           600
19   l5m 25pin HEN15                                                 680
20   7m 25pin HEN7                                                  2600
4b. Cables for SA Modems
21   3m 25pin HCU3                                                   1040
22   3m 25pin HEN3                                                   100
4c. Cables for Comlink Modems
23   1 5m 34pin HCK15                                                110
24   7m 34pin HCK7                                                   120
4d. Cables for G703-V35 Modems
25  15m 34pin HXX15                                                 20
26   7m 34pin HXX7                                                   80
27   5. NMS Upgrade                                                   1
28   6. Training and Technical Assistance
10.Contract with COMPUTRON - item 40 in Table 2
Delivery of full financial management system for PKP along with training and consultations.
11.Contract with C.OLIVETTI &C., S.p.A. - item 41 in Table 2
Delivery of printers for OMIS system specified below.
Table 13
No                         Specification                           Quantity
I   -Pin Printer DM1 19 10"                                         500
2   -Pin Printer DM409 10"                                          200
3   Pin Printer DM409L 15"                                          125
4   Laser Printer PG304 A4                                           100
12.Contract with IBM World Trade Corp - item 42 in Table 2
Delivery of PC computers - OMIS terminals - specified below.
Table 14
No                         Specification                           Quantity
I   Microcomputer PC350 P100 16 MB 850HD                            2400
2   Monitor IBM 15"                                                 1000
3   Monitor IBM 17"                                                 1300
4   Monitor Philips 21"                                              100
5   Mouse Pad                                                       2400
6   Interface 9/25 pin                                              2400
7   Computer vertical positioning system                            480
8   Installation Disks DOS/WIN                                       50
9   Handbook DOS/WIN                                                 50
10   RAM 16MB                                                        150
1 1  VRAM 1MB                                                        100
22



Evaluation of Borrower Performance
Due to wide range of Project implementation activities, PKP had to mobilize all its relevant
resources.
One can conclude from several years of Project implementation that implementation of such
complex undertakings needs extremely wide involvement and cooperation of all interested
parties starting with management of an enterprise through various servicing units and finally of
middle level management, professionals in the field of information management and final users
of the system.
One of the most important factors is synchronization of activities on both sides - enterprise and
suppliers. One bad example can be drown from the delays in DIGITAL contract
implementation, which in tern influenced implementation schedules of other related contracts
for procurement of information system components.
Evaluation of Bank Performance
In our opinion, Bank procedures aiming at securing objective supplier selection process and
tight control over borrower activities during preparation and implementation of tendering
process are actually extremely time consuming, which more than once forced PKP to change
proposed timetables for implementation of co-related procurements.
It was also strongly objected by the tenders and prolonged the contract negotiations and
finalization.
In case of procurement of information systems and software, criterion of lowest priced offer as
decisive factor of selection does not always bring desired effects.
Bank procedures are not so well designed for that kind of procurement. Bank's preferable
payment schedule (90% payment upon equipment expedition) resulted in less interest on the
side of tenderers during further stages of contract implementation - installation and start up.
Ad( 7- Studies
Ad. 7a - ,,Study for the rationalization of train formation, dispatching and marshaling
yards" as described in SAR with allocation of funds of USD 0.15 million, has been carried out
by ,,Austria Rail Engineering" and was financed from Austrian Government grant administered
by the World Bank. Final Report has been approved by PKP.
The study proved to be of high value since it accurately identified shortcomings of freight
traffic organization and management, proposed new methods for train formation and
dispatching (so called knot-points methods) and provided valuable solutions for PKP
professionals in charge of freight traffic management.
Ad. 7b - ,,Study of long term locomotive design, maintenance and operation practices in
Poland" as described in SAR with allocation of funds of USD 0.15 million, has been carried
out by ,,Elektrowatt Engineering Service Ltd." and was financed from Swiss Government grant
administered by the World Bank.
23



Final Report has been handed over to PKP. It was heavily objected. According to Polish
professionals, one of the shortcomings of the study was lack of proposals for operation of
existing rolling stock and lack of technical and economical analysis. Panel discussions on the
results of the study have not been held.
Ad. 7c - ,,Study of modern management information system for train operations as well
as general management (SKPZ)" as described with SAR with allocation of funds of USD
0.35 million, has been carried out by Canadian consultant CPCS and was financed from
Canadian Govemment grant administered by the World Bank.
Draft final report has not met expectations. Coopers & Lybrand, which was commissioned to
evaluate the report, identified report's shortcomings and specified range of issues than needed
improvement - the contract was financed under the World Bank Loan - item I in Table 2.
Verified final report was handed over in October 1991.
Under amount allocated to studies, the World Bank refinanced expenditures related to study
tour of PKP professionals dealing with management information systems, which was held in
Germany, France, USA, Canada and Great Britain railway enterprises (in the amount of about
USD 62 thousand).
Ad. 7d
- ,,PKP restructuring study" - in the amount of USD 0.4 million granted by American
Government under U.S. Trade and Development Program (the agreement between U.S.
TDA and PKP) was carried out by Mercer Management Consulting in 1992-1993.
Description of current status and traffic forecast stipulated in the Report was not objected,
however financial and forecasting model needed further fine-tuning. Despite verification, it
has not met Polish side expectations.
Study provided the first document formulating sectorial concept of PKP restructurization
and establishment of Restructurization Agency. It was the first stage of PKP restructuring
study. Second stage is being carried out now by the same Consultant under Japanese Grant
Agreement between IBRD and the Government of Poland.
* Under this Project component, the World Bank agreed to finance Feasibility Study for
modernization of railway line (Berlin) Kunowice-Warszawa, which was carried out by
German Consultant DE CONSULT in the amount of DEM 220,000 - item 6 in Table 2.
Ad 8- Institution Building - Training
Ad. 8a. The loan financed the following training programs for the total amount of USD 1.28
million:
* In 1992 first session of programming PKP operations with LOTS methodology was carried
out under the contract with Swedish firm LOTS AB - item 17 in Table 2.
The session was attended by 18 professionals - members of PKP management. The training
was rated very high and consequently PKP undertook preparatory actions for the
implementation of contract regarding introduction of that system in day-to-day PKP
24



management. However, in 1994 PKP decided to relinquish implementation of LOTS
methodology.
* Under the contract with Coopers & Lybrand - item 31 in Table 2 - the following training
programs were carried out in 1991-1995:
1. Five two-session courses (10 days) on management, titled ,,Milestone" for about 130
professionals - members of PKP management.
2. Two courses titled ,,Business Workshops" for 41 professionals from PKP senior
management, one-session course (5 days) for 14 trainers selected under ,,Milestone"
program.
3. One two-session course (10 days) in-depth analysis of management accountancy systems for
27 professions.
4. Procurement of training aids for training programs: Sanyo Projector and Toshiba Notebook.
* Under the contract with Austrian firm ARE - item 32 in Table 2 - the following training
program were carried out in 1995:
I. One-session (5 days) course on market management of passenger services for 23
professionals.
2. Two-session (10 days) course on market management of freight services for 25
professionals.
3. Two-session (10 days) course on operation management for 17 professionals.
Following the results and recommendations provided in Final Reports from training programs
prepared by the Consultants and taking into account conditions and objectives set in the above
contracts, it should be noted that all training objectives have been met, particularly those
related to PKP management under new market-based conditions, to financial result analysis
and improvement programs as well as general operations of PKP.
In total, some 300 professionals - members of multi-level management structure of PKP
enterprise have been trained under programs financed from the World Bank Loan.
Participants of the training programs take active part in various activities undertaken by PKP
working groups for reorganization and restructurization of PKP enterprise.
Specialized group of trainers holds independent courses on management issues, which is one of
the most important training objectives met under the program.
Under the component, the World Bank also financed participation of three professionals in WB
training course on Procurement organized by ILO in Torino (in the amount of USD 19,350).
In total, USD 0.556 million was disbursed from the Loan on training courses.
25



Ad B - ZNTK Stargard - resignedfrom the Loan
Ad C - ZWUS Katowice
As it was mentioned before, ZWUS after transformation into ABB ZWUS Ltd. significantly
limited originally allocated amount (from USD 20 million to USD 0.736 million).
The loan was used for implementation of two contracts:
1. Contract with GSS A.W. GENERAL - item 34 in Table 2 - for delivery of computer
hardware, installation of active elements of computer network, design of logical computer
network, wiring and power supply system including delivery of UPS.
2. Contract with ORACLE - item 37 in Table 2 - for delivery, installation and start up of
relative database software.
Contracts have been implemented timely and efficiently.
Implementation of the contracts enabled ZWUS to introduce and operate the following
management systems in ABB ZWUS (now Adtranz Zwus Sp z o.o.):
* financial,
* storage,
* commercial,
* delivery,
- budgeting, fixed assets, payroll and staffing.
The above subsystems provide initial basis for the implementation of integrated management
information system for the whole company.
26



FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
First Transport Project financed form the World Bank loan was implemented through two
accounts:
1. Loan Account in Washington no 3194-0 POL under direct responsibility of relevant WB
divisions,
2. Special Account in London no 0001-100725 established and operated by the National Bank
of Poland.
The Special Account has been closed following the World Bank procedures. Final
reconciliation was made on December 17, 1996 and subsequently sent to the Bank. On such
basis, the Special Account was closed (PKP request of December 20, 1996) and unused
balance was transferred back to the Loan Account.
Generally, Payment Advises and Monthly Disbursement Summaries were sent to PKP
Financial Bureau on time until June 1994. Since that moment, documents came irregularly
often with over one month delays.
The above facts were reported to the World Bank, however with no visible improvement.
In 1995 PKP for the first time received report on future debt service obligations clearly
showing significant difference between Loan Disbursements documented by Payment Advises
and net obligations as of June 30, 1995, being the result of currency pool type of loan.
Not earlier than in December 1995, the World Bank organized training course on debt service
obligations of the borrowers explaining mechanisms of currency pool.
In October 1995 the Bank introduced new billing and reporting system. At that moment, PKP
received reports on loan opening balance calculated in pool units since October 1, 1995.
However, PKP has no information on pool unit value and number of pool units of
disbursements made before that date. PKP several times requested the World Bank to sent such
information, so far to no result.
Financial risk involved in USD 145 million loan as well as risk involved in foreign exchange
rates fluctuations with fixed since 1989 currency ratio of IUSD=125JPY=2DEM Group,
which was not known at the time of signature of the Loan Agreement strongly supports our
opinion that such most important factor should be elaborated in the Loan Agreement.
27



Economic, Financial and Operation Situation of PKP during Project
Implementation
The Loan Agreement No 3194-0 POL between the World Bank and PKP specifies operating
and financial targets to be met by PKP during Project implementation.
The table below shows actual levels of those indicators during Project implementation period
1991-1996 and their relations to set targets.
Table 15           Actual level
Target
Index of Performance       Unit   1991 | 1992 | 1993 | 1994 | 1995   1996
Operational Indicators
Electric Locomotive Ava.         %       89.4   86.4   83.4   80.6   83.3   84
88     88     88    89.5   91
Electric Locomotive km.         km/    412.5  409.4  426.4  432.9  435.3  387
24hours   410    440    470    500    510
Wagon Availability - total       %       87.2   84.2   83.7   83.6   82.6   81.4
___________ _ _ __  84  84  84   85     86
Wagon availability - coal                87.4   84    86.7   88    88.2   86.1
84     84     84    85.5   87
Coal Wagon Turnaround           Days    4.92   4.81   5.01   4.86   5.42   5.76
._______  4.52   4.43   4.33    4.2   4.02
Speed Restrictions - main lines  units    492    477   437    396    495    558
600    550    500    450    400
Speed Restrictions - turnouts   units    320    228    166    81    120    131
350    350    330    300    250
Traffic Units per Employee               0.33   0.328  0.364   0.37   0.39  0.407
0.32   0.32   0.33   0.34   0.37
Uneconomical Lines Shutdown     km       693    681    239    525    438    448
1 200    200    200    200    200
Financial Performance Indicators
OperatingRatio (excl. subsidies)        130.2  120.7  125.6  119.6  117.5  116.2
104    121    124    120    119    119
Operating Ratio (incl. subsidies)       112.4  103.6  103.0  101.3  101.3  102.8
______   _ _  90    104    103    100    99     99
The table below shows PKP passenger and freight traffic in 1990-1996.
Table 16
Trafric      Units   1990 | 1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Freight in tons   1OA3   278,139  255,312  199,799  212,665  213,559  224,346  222,628
Freight in tkm    10A6   83,462  65,095  57,724  64,127            69,093   68,308
Passengers         10A6    785.5   650.1   548.1   539.9   493.7   465.1   433.5
Passengers in tk0A6   50,339  40,089   32,554  30800   27,600   26,600  26.600
28



1992 was the most dramatic year of decrease in freight traffic with stable increase thereafter.
It should be underlined that since the moment of Project appraisal, PKP as well as the rest of
Polish economy has undergone many basic changes which have had fundamental influence on
the levels of indicators. Without due considerations to that element, proper evaluation of those
data is impossible.
As early as Loan Agreement negotiations with the World Bank, PKP opted for changes of set
targets. In August 1993, the World Bank approved changes in set targets, which were
proposed by PKP as a result of fundamental organizational changes of the enterprise after the
year of 1991 (separation of PKP units and establishment of new independent enterprises
dealing with maintenance, construction and production) as well as the need to take account of
almost 50% drop in PKP traffic when compared to 1989 figures.
Appraisal phase as well as negotiations of the Loan Agreement were very important stages of
Project preparation.
Issues and indicators discussed and agreed at that moment have principal influence on the ex
post evaluation of Project implementation by the Borrower and their accuracy should facilitate
the cooperation and help to avoid amendments during implementation, which is time
consuming and bureaucratic process.
Cooperation with the World Bank and European Investment Bank under the First Transport
Project started the process of PKP restructurization, its transformation into modem,
competitive transport enterpnse.
Majority of undertaken actions will bring fruits only in the near future enabling full evaluation
of whole aspects of the Project.
But even today, one can conclude that cooperation of all parties involved in that undertaking
has been successful despite:
1. economic transition of Polish economy during Project implementation, which resulted
among others in considerable decrease in freight and passenger traffic and related drop in
investment and maintenance activity of PKP,
2. necessity to onlend funds to former PKP servicing units, which involved large extent of
work not included into the Loan Agreement,
3. associated various changes in original allocations and scope of the Project, including
introduction of new components under EEB loan,
4. new procedures necessary to cooperate with both Banks particularly during procurement
process,
5. complications during computer and automatic exchanges tendering processes,
6. restructuring process of PKP, which was undertaken in parallel to implementation of the
Project, which influenced particularly OMIS,
7. late information about currency pool mechanisms and influence on PKP debt service
obligations (interests and principals).
29



Finally, technical background of PKP professionals as well as their cooperation with the World
Bank and EIB experts played vital role in Project implementation, while management
performance of PKP over the Project brought fruits in form of implementation discipline.
icr-pptl.doc
30



Table 1
No           Project Component             Total       Remarks       Column 2 and 3 after Changes            Signed Contracts              Value of
According to SAR            Foreign       about                     ___       ___. Pfoleet
Costs       Changes           Item-Beneficiary     Amount    No (Table 2 and 2a)   USD min   Comaponeots
(SAR)                                                                                          (US mlnJ
A  Railways (PKPI                                                                                                                     F.P
1. Track Maintenance Equipment                                                                    26,04       2, 35,26         49415
2. Track Maintenance Manufacture            43,07
a  Elastic fastenings                        9,47 Onlent to.        A2a - KZN Skalmierzyce                                            WPS.KZN
b. Concrete Sleepers                         9,42 WPS Mrrostaw Ujsl  A2b - WPSes                  19,68        18,12            17.962          .1964
WPS Goczatk6w                                            other payments        0.07 .
WPS Suwafll
KZN SkalmierB      ____________________________________.______       
c  Turnouts irmprovement                    14,33 KZN Bydgoszcz      A2c - KZN Bydg * Krak6w                                          KZN
KZNKrakbw                                       14,33          11     ---___.     6.7ro  __  ____n9
d. Reconditionmng of rails                   3,45                   A2d, A2e -     -PKP-                                              fl-P
e. Flush butt welding                        6.40                                                  9,85        3, 4,5           11.351           11,351
T~~~~~ 20.900.
ac Mteasrg quitrpai.-nt                           transferre to9 4al(iA  C.c. =                       I4 PK  3'951. 7-0E1-0CU  tt           
S.  Ti8Ueommunictiin.Requipment          t2,3S                   ASaleila  PZNTKP N. E23                      16             i 4.i0           4, I'K
6 . OMIS W~CU1f~                    ~          0 30.57    0c        A6ct PKP 91                   30,54  31,1,2,3,3-2            i'30K
ZFITKBytIgO6ZCZ  ~ ~    ~     ~     NL~ Cl()O cT
d. Old zccon.ic4ia*. .... .. Ae  *1
_      .  _    other  payments _ O 32                                               . . .........,..4398
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 Trafi                                                  99,15
4. Signalling                                2,14 tem C c            A4a0P,                        2,`14                              F;PI
a  Measuring equipment                            transferred to 4a CIc  A4b Psd 1y81                       7-10 21 30 43        2831            2,831
___________________                 ~~~~~3.95
S. Telecommunication Lqulpment               12,35                   ASa PKP                      12.35          16             11 2'i PIKP-
a  Dlata network eoulpent                         _________other payments                                                       i0 007          11,132
6. OMIS                                     30.57                    A.6 PKP                      30,57  13-15, 19,20, 33. 38-42    4i.936 PKP'
other payments 1      04r04         43982
7. Studies                                    1280                   A7 PKP                        1080
a  Traffic                                   0,15
B. LocomoTves deign                          0,15                                                                                     PKPP
C. OZWS                                      0,35                                                             study tour         0062            0,2i 2
d.   Other                                    1.15    _ _ _ _ _  _    __ _   _ _ _ _     _1.6                                    0.200.
S. Instiution building                        1,28                   ABPKP'                                     ILO              0019P1'
a. Management training                       1.28 _______    ________                              1.28       17, 31, 32         0.537  ________
B. ZNTKS                                     7.75 resigned ZNTK(S    Bab PKP                       7.75                          0.0001.000
a+bi Machines and licensing              8.30* 1.45                    _ __________
C. ZWUS                                      20,00                                                                                      w
a  Equipment                                13,58                   Cad - ZWUS                    15.23        34. 37            0 ?36           0,T36
b. Cast iron foundry                         2,96 resigned ZWUS
c  Measuring instruments                     1,81 trasferred to iem 4b  Cb- PKP                    2,96
d. Training for ZWUS                          1,65                   PKP                          96,5!                        1 t9 3S6      _
PKP1                         96.55                        199396
TOTAL WORLD BANK                        145,00 USO min           WPS, KZN Skalmierzyce        18.89                          17,962          1i.94
.KZN Krak6w.
KZN Bydgoszcz                14,33                          6 770          46.770
ABB ZWUS Signal              15,23                          0.736           0,736
TOTAL Wt                    145,00                        144,f64         145.000



ATrACHMENT 2
TABLE 2 - CONTRACTS FINANCED UNDER WB LOAN
No    CONTRACT No               SUPPLIER/            GOODS AND            CONTRACT VALUE
SERVICES
COUNTRY OF                            IN CONTRACT      IN USD
OTRIGIN                              CURRENCY
1  95053111202         COOPERS & LYBRAND  Consultant                        USD
ENGLAND                   Services                52,000       52.000.00
2  95053/1/1001         PLASSER & THEURER   Track                            ATS
AUSTRIA                   Maintenance         281.002,600  24,604,805.90
Machines
3  95053/1/1002         BAHNBEDARF                Welding Machines           CHF
SWITZERLAND                                     5.574,858   3,937,854.15
4  95053/1/1003         GEISMAR                   Rail Reprofiling           FRF
FRANCE                    Machines             34.868,797   6,283,409.06
5  95053/1/1004         MATIX                     Brushing                  CHF
. ________________ SWITZERLAND                Machines               1.579,253    1,129,667.06
6  001381352/92-1007  DE CONSULT                  Consultant                DEM
GEMRANY                              dy)         220,000      147,520.20
7  001381352/92-1009  SCHLUMBERGER                                          DEM
AUSTRIA                                          702,479     464,829.67
8  001381352/92-1010  RODHE & SCHWARZ                                       USD
AUSTRIA                   Measuring              569,719     570,023.10
Equipment
9  001381352/92-1011  UEI                                                   USD
AUSTRIA                                           73,551      73,626.43
10  001381352/92-1012  SIEMENS                                              DEM
GERMANY                                          478,947     324,695.11
1 l001381352/92-1014  COBURG                      Milling Machines          DEM
GERMANY                                        11.498,524   6,770,157.97
12  001381352/92-1024  ST.I.ARM                   Lines for                 DEM
ITALY                     Construction of      23.721,920  17,882.805.91
Concrete Sleepers          ITL
and Tumout        5,156.355,000
Sleepers
13  001381352/92-1025  ETOCHEM/DATELCOM   LAN Operating                      USD
POLAND/SWEDEN             System                 351.430      328.314.24
14  001381352/92-1026  LBMS                       Case Softwvare             GBP
ENGLAND                                          284,250     446,744.74
15  001381352/92-1027  COOPERS & LYBRAND   Consultant                        GBP
ENGLAND                   Services OMIS          778,120   1,205.396.07
16  001381352/92-1028  SPRINT                     KOLPAK                     USD
U.S.A.                                         11,127,467  11,125.084.20
17  001381352/92-1029  LOTS                       Consultant                 SEK
SWEDEN                    Services-Training      250,000      37,147.10
18  001381352/92-1030  HILGER                     Osciloscope                GBP
53,715      79,402.92
19  012123294/93-1037  DIGITAL                    Computer Systems           USD
FRANCE                   .                     20,343,109   18,687,462.47
20  0012123294/93-      COOPERS & LYBRAND  Consultant                        GBP
1038                ENGLAND                   Services OMIS           122,091     193,341.43
32



21  012123294/93-1042  SIEMENS                                                DEM
GERMANY                                           771.144     490,311.44
22  012123294/93-1043  ANDO EUROPE                                            NLG
HOLLAND                                           167,380      96,792.40
23  012123294/93-1044  GN ELMI AS                                             DKK
DENMARK                                           346,900      57,598,94
24  012123294/94-1045  TEKTRONIX                                              USD
AusTRIA                                             16,622      16,628.36
25  012123294/93-1046  SCHLUMBERGER                Measuring                   FRF
AUSTRIA                   Equipment               124.450      22,656.34
26  012123294/94-1047  HEWLETT PACKARD                                        USD
AUSTRIA                                            53,560      53,640.69
27  012123294/93-1048  ROHDE & SCHWARZ                                        USD
_________________  AUSTRIA                                             151,210     149,705.65
28  012123294/93-1049  WANDEL                                                DEM
GERMANY                                           247,704     159,765.37
29  012123294/93-1050  EPI ELEKTRONIK                                         USD
AUSTRIA                                            85,420      85,306.11
30  012123294/93-1051  GOULD INSTRUMENT                                       USD
ENGLAND                                            30,637      30,582.71
31  012123294/95-1054  COOPERS & LYBRAND  Consultant                          GBP
ENGLAND                   Services - Training     267,740     408,139.46
32  012123294/94-1058  ARE                         Consultant                 ATS
AUSTRIA                   Services - Training     929.000      91,549.37
33  012123294/94-1062  COOPERS & LYBRAND  Consultant                          GBP
ENGLAND                   Services OMIS          1,415.312   3,382,939.96
USD
846.790
ECU
291,900
34  012123294/94-1063  GSS A.W.GENERAL S.   Computers for                     USD
CYPRUS                    ABB ZWUS                594,850     595,811.28
35  012123294/94-1064  MATISA                      Track Laying               CHF
SW[TZERLAND               Train                 10,001.861    8.577,770.87
36  012123294/94-1065  PLASSER & THEURER   Track                              ATS
AUSTRIA                   Maintenance          166,959.159   16,233.853.48
Machines
37  012123294/94-1066  ORACLE                      Software for               USD
ABB ZWUS                136,968     140,344.43
38  012123294/95-1069  ELTECO                      UPS and                    USD
SLOVAKIA                  Generators              941,744     945,553.77
39  012123294/95-1070  SUMMIT                      Data Transmission          USD
ENGLAND                   Equipment              4,960,470   4,964,396.49
40  012123294/95-1078  COMPUTRON                   Software                   USD
ENGLAND                                          7,794,628   7,024,290.38
41  012123294/96-1084  OLIVETTI                    Printers                   USD
ITALY                                             642,650     579,236.28
42  012123294/96-1092  IBM                         Computers                  USD
I_________ -___U.S.A.                                                6,176,950   6,178,613.81
43  012123294/96-1093  SIEMENS                     Measuring                  DEM
GERMANY                   Equipment               365,484     235,200.45
44                                                 Other Payments                       135,026.23
TOTAL  145,000,000.00
33



ATrACHMENT 3
TABLE 2A - CONTRACTS FINANCED UNDER EIB LOAN
No       CONTRACT No               SUPPLIER]            EQUIPNENT           CONTRACT VALUE
COUNTRY OF                             IN CONTRACT    IN ECU
OTRIGIN                               CURRENCY       EIB DATA
1  001381352/92-1015        PROCECO                Cleaners                     USD
USA                                         1,070,301.00  1,826,272.21
2   001381352/92-1016        CAM                   Laminators, millers           USD
USA                                          460,646.29   619,078.81
3   001381352/92-1017        HOLTRADE I            Counterbalancers             DEM
GERMANY                                      266,794.00   139,984.52
4   001381352/92-1018        HOLTRADE II           Coil press                   DEM
GERMANY                                      159,590.70    84,857.75
5   001381352/92-1020        COGIS                 Counterbalancer               ECU
ITALY                                         67,536.00    67,430.23
6   001381352/92-1031        SPM                   Analyzer.                     ATS
AUSTRIA               Sthetoscope            218,022.00     15,857.44
7   001381352/93-1032        SKF                   Bellows heaters              DEM
POLAND                                        67,672.76    36,092.13
8   001381352/93-1033        BAKER                 High voltage                  USD
GERMANY               meters                 193,927.00    176,643.34
9   001381352/93-1034        HOLTRADE III          Polimerization  and          DEM
GERMANY               impregnation           745,560.00   373,684.89
10  001381352/93-1035        ISOVOLTA              Pressure-vacuous              ATS
AUSTRIA               impregnation         7,270,000.00   528,863.82
11  0012123994/94-1041    MICAMATION               Welding and                   CHF
SWITZERLAND           milling                150,730.00    89,919.19
12  01221232954/94-1059    WIEPOFAMA               reaming of track              PLN
POLAND                engines                120,000.00    44,760.07
TOTAL FOR ZNTK                                                                       4,003,444.40
13  001381352/93-1036        MILLENIUM             Consultant services           USD
USA                                           34,559.08    29,533.13
14  001211232/94-105         SCIENTIFIC GEN    Consultant services               GBP
ENGLAND                                       12,500.00     16,157.81
15  012123294/94-1060        INST. LACZN.          Exchange testing              PLN
POLAND                MERIDIAM  1             25,000.00      7,970.46
16  98384/1/5303             SAT                   Fibre optic wires             FRF
____  001381352/92-1023       FRANCE                                      4,177,109.00   632,407.58
17  98384/1/5301             NKT TELECOM           Fibre optic wires             DKK
DENMARK                                    21,182,329.2  3,161,994.35
18  012123295/95-1074        KAPSCH                Exchanges                     ATS
AUSTRIA                                     150,095,029  11442611.95
19  012123294/95-1079        ERICSSON              Teletransmission              SEK
POLAND                equipment             1,580,445.00    162,919.20
20  012123294/95-1081        ALCATEL                Teletransmission             ECU  653,781.70*
POLAND                systems               1,514,267.00   542,961.12
TOTAL                          TELECOMMUNICATION                                     NETWORK
15,996,555.60
TOTAL                                                                                         EIB
34



120,000,000.00
* INVOICED AMOUNT SUBMI''TED FOR EB FINANCNG.
ATTACMENT 4
TABLE 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR WB AND EIB CONTRACTS
BANK           PROJECT        1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997  TOTAL"
BENEFICIARY   COMPONENT
2           3       4            _  6        7        8      9
track
maintenance      15,415   9,190   0,000   0,000  17,288   7,523  0,000   494.16i
rail
reconditioning    0,000   6,846   4,259   0.246   0.000   0.000   0,000   1151
World Bank
signalling        0,000   1,433   0,000   1,163   0         0,000  0,.235 ':1138
PKP - Transport                                                                           ... . ..
KOLPAK            0,000   0,000   6,493   3.141  1,48 1   0,000  10701    11 132
MIS               0,000   0,289   1,203  10,660  18,188   9,639  4,003   43,982.
Studies           0.114   0,134   0,014   0,000   0,000   0,000  0000 
Training          0,000   0,037   0,019   0.064   0,226   0,210  0,000
Total WB         15,529  17,929  11,988  15,274  37,183  17,372  4,255
KZN             measuring
Skalmerzyce     equipment         0,000   0        0.079   0,000   0,000   ,   0     0,
WPS Suwaki    sleepers
WPS Goczalk6w   manufacturing
WPS Miroslaw U.                   0,000   0.000   3.391  10,497   3,241   0,456  0,330  1'., 88,5
KZN Bydgoszcz turnouts qty.
KZN Krak6w    improvement         0,000   0.730   5,351   0,689   0,000   0,000  0.000    6.:770,
ABB ZWUS        computers  and
Signal Ltd.     software          0,000   0,000   0.000   0,000   0,677   0.059  0.000 . .736
TOTAL Units       0.000   0,730   8,821  11,156   3,918   2,561  0,330   254. 0:
,TT   VWA         15-,529 "'18,6S   2 ,,  ' 26,434J  4'13,1! .      45 .       ,1 S
European
Investment
Bank
ZNTK Oleinica  equipment   for   0,000   2,500   1,503   0,000   0,000   0,000  0,000  $,03-
ZNTKMiisk M. repair units
ZNTK Gliwice  ....  ,   ,          .,                                              _
PKP - Transport tele-                                                                   ... ...
communicatiom     0 000   0,000   0  697[ 3200  12100   0000  00 
TOTAL Em   60~   f2 35O4 )  i200   j,200  1Z                       2
35






APPENDIX A2
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND MARITIME ECONOMY
(LOAN 3193)






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
TRANSPORT - GENERAL
LOAN AGREEMENT NO 3193-0 POL DATED JUNE 11, 1990
BETWEEN IBRD AND MT&ME IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 4,750,000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY -
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND MARITIME ECONOMY
I.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Original Objectives, and Changes during Implementation
Following the recommendations of the governmental program of restructuring
transport sector, during negotiations it was agreed to include a component of the project,
which would support future governmental actions through technical assistance, studies and
training related to transport strategic issues.
Negotiated loan amount of USD 8 million was earmarked for:
* roads component (USD 3.20 million),
* studies (USD 1.55 million),
* technical assistance and training (USD 3.25 million).
Dunrng negotiations held in Washington on March 12-16, 1990, it was agreed that First
Transport Project would be presented to the Board of Director on May 1, 1990 at the latest,
upon receiving satisfactory confirmation of governmental approval.
On April 23, 1990, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Poland decided in the
form of Act no 71/90 to take the loans co-financing First Transport Project.
On April 25, 1990, Mr. Leszek Balcerowicz, Deputy Prime Minister requested the
Bank to cancel the amount of USD 3.25 million allocated to cover technical assistance
assignments related to institutional rebuilding of transport sector.
Accordingly, in the signed Loan Agreement No 3193-0 POL in the amount of USD
4,750,000 the component to be implemented by the Ministry of Transport and Maritime
Economy was limited only to four studies of strategic importance for transport sector, specified
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, part B(2) and related to:
I



a) development and application of a restructured rail passenger subsidy  system  based
exclusively on demonstrable social, economic and environmental considerations;
b) development and application of a suitable road user charges system;
c) further development of road transport;
d) expansion of combined transport.
Staff Appraisal Report no 8431-POL dated April 5, 1990 included draft Terms of
Reference for study on rail passenger subsidy system. Terms of Reference for other studies,
both included and not included in the Loan Agreement, were drafted after the signature (June
11, 1990) and effectiveness (September 11, 1990) dates of the Loan co-financing First
Transport Project, Transport - General.
During project implementation, the original objectives remained the same while
methods of their achievement were changed. The Bank supported the governmental policy to
cover technical assistance assignments from bilateral grants and to allocate freed loan amounts
to more effective investment programs. As early as 1990/1991 the Bank has started actions to
secure various bilateral grants, in majority administered by the World Bank. Such actions
succeeded in the form of the following grants for MT&ME and PKP:
* American donated by US TDA for PKP restructuring study (USD 0.40 million according to
agreement with US TDA);
* Canadian for PKP for development of Management Information System (USD 0.35 million
according to SAR);
* Austrian for PKP for Train Formation & Dispatching/Marshaling Yards study (USD 0.15
million according to SAR);
* Swiss for PKP for Locomotives Design and Maintenance Optimization study (USD 0.15
million according to SAR);
* Swedish for MT&ME for Investment Analysis and Budgeting study (not available - our
estimation - USD 0.15 million);
* Dutch for MT&ME for Combined Transport Development study (not available - our
estimation - USD 0.35 million);
* World Bank for MT&ME for Road and Rail Transport Development study (not available -
our estimation - USD 0.10 million);
* Dutch for MT&ME for Port Sector Study (not available - our estimation - USD 1.50
million in 1992 and 1.00 million in 1995);
2



* Japanese for MT&ME for Rail Restructuring study and Coal Transport study (JPY 106
million according to Grant Agreement no TF029121 between WB and MT&ME dated May
5, 1995).
Thanks to the above Bank's actions and to the fact that restructured rail passenger
subsidy system was developed by Polish consultants and financed from Polish national budget,
the amount of USD 1,550,000 was freed from the Loan. During subsequent World Bank
transport supervision missions, reallocation of loan funds between the components
implemented by MT&ME and GDDP was gradually agreed. Relevant recommendations of
Ministerial Board of Directors were given the WB ,,no objection" and effectively, from the
total amount of USD 4,750,000:
a) the amount of USD 4,540,619.73 was allocated to GDDP component implementing
Pavement Management System and providing modem equipment for road laboratories,
while
b) the amount of USD 209,380.27 remained with MT&ME and was applied towards
computer hardware and software purchases.
Evaluaton .of Project Objectives.  :
Generally, the objectives identified in 1990 survived the project. Six years of transition
in economy, including transport sector, resulted in various levels of achievements and
applications of recommendations of studies carried out under First Transport Project:
*     World Bank study together with the study carried out by Danish Road Administration
paved the way for preparation of next loan operation, that is Roads Project (Loan Agreement
No 3564-0 POL dated April 28, 1993 in the amount of USD 150 million);
*     Swedish study on investment analysis had not been planned in the Loan Agreement but
enabled earlier compliance with loan covenants related to investment decision making process
involving relevant economic assessment studies;
*     The study on restructured rail passenger subsidy system influenced formulation of
passenger discount tariffs system and its legal approval;
*     Studies on road user charges were not expanded because of lack of interest on the side
of Ministry of Finance, which did not agreed upon Terms of Reference proposed by the Bank.
The World Bank received only a report illustrating current situation in road user charges.
Despite it, Ministry of Finance decided to increase charges on registration of vehicles;
*     Dutch study on combined transport formed basis for including combined transport pilot
project component (in the amount of USD 2 million) into Roads Project;
*     Studies on railway restructuring financed from Japanese grant were partly used in
drafting new PKP law;
3



*     Dutch study on port sector formed basis for future two operations: on-going loan for
USD 67 million equivalent co-financing Port Access and Management Project (Loan
Agreement No 4080-0-1 POL dated September 9, 1996), and second port operation under
preparation - Port Modernization Project planned for FY 1999.
II. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Achievement of Objeciives: .       Substantial.
Securing bilateral grant financing involved consultants from grant donor countries.
Dutch, Swedish and American experiences proved to be very useful for Polish transport sector.
Project Sustainabiity:        Likely.
Studies provided valuable insights and recommendations used in current sector
operations on the continuous bases.
Project Costs and Timetabk.:
Out of amounts estimated at appraisal of USD 1,550,000 in foreign costs and USD
220,000 in local costs actual amounts expedited were USD 209,380.27 from the Loan and
PLZ 82,647,000 from the national budget (equivalent of USD 6,804 in 1992-93 prices).
To make the best use of available loan funds, the Bank, at the request of MT&ME and
PKP dated September 8, 1995, agreed to extend the disbursement period of the Loans to
December 31, 1996. Consequently, First Transport Project was implemented from September
11, 1990 (Effectiveness Date) to December 31 1996 (Closing Date).
During decade-long period of cooperation (four years of preparations and six years of
implementation) key factor influencing the Project was personal leadership of members of
Ministerial Board of Directors (Mr. Boguslaw Liberadzki, Under-Secretary of State and then
Minister, Mr. Tadeusz Szozda, Under-Secretary of State, Mr. Zenon Dereszkiewicz, Under-
Secretary of State) on one hand, and continuous involvement in polish transport sector of
World Bank officials working for Infrastructure Division in Central Europe Department (Mr.
Hans J. Apitz, Division Chief and Mr. Enn P. Vasur, Senior Economist, leader of all transport
missions in Poland).
Bank and Borrowver Performance:
From the beginning, performance of parties benefited greatly from the efficient
cooperation. Implementation of the Project was preceded by four-year preparation period,
which secured enough time for making valuable acquaintances and giving necessary
confidence.
From June 1986 to December 1996, the Bank sent about 30 transport missions, which
dealt with examination, identification, preparation, evaluation and supervision of First
Transport Project.
4



Representatives of the Borrower took part in various international seminars,
conferences etc. co-organized by the World Bank:
* in Paris, in March 1991 - Transport Policy for Central and Eastern European Countries;
* in Vienna, in May 1992 - Railway Round Table;
* in Washington, in February 1993 - American Railway Restructurization;
* in Budapest, in October 1994 - Road Safety;
* In Moscow, in December 1995 - Transport Policy for CIS,
* in St. Louis, in May 1996 - Transport Opportunities in CIS and CEE Countries.
Project Outcome:
Project outcome, meaning results from implementation of the Project, can be easily
separated into two major groups: material and immaterial: Material effects include:
1. improvement in working conditions of MT&MNE staff through purchases of 69 computer
hardware and software systems;
2. preparation of two new loan operations: (a) Roads Project - loan of USD 150 million and
(b) Port Access and Management Project - loan of USD 67 million equivalent.
Immaterial effects include:
1. constant practice of undertaking economic analysis for all investment activities carried out in
each transport sector entity;
2. gradual implementation of very specific and difficult railway restructuring program;
3. lessons learned from the cooperation with international financial institutions.
III. SUMMARY OF OUTCOME, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
XSSeSSRnent of .Ky O44t.m* of,. '." ,.... .: -
First Transport Project as a complex support program  for MT&ME, General
Directorate of Public Roads (GDDP) and PKP played very important role in the initial period
of transformations in Polish economy and transport sector (sharp decrease in freight rail traffic
by about 40%, decrease in budget spending for public roads maintenance by 60%, increase in
the number of vehicles by about 50%, ten-fold increase in cross-border traffic - those are major
characteristics of transitions). The World Bank loans helped PKP enterprise, public roads
administration and the Ministry of Transport and Maritime Economy to face reality of market
economy.
In finances, First Transport Project has constItuted only 20% of transport sector
cooperation with International Financial Institutions, but it was this first 20% of current status.
5



Future Operations:
Projects goals and objectives were achieved through extensive strategic studies of
Polish transport sector and in this respect it is hard to tell about future operations of the
Project. Transport sector underwent similar transformation as the rest of national economy.
Certainly, there are needs of further studies but this time related to other, new issues, dealing
mainly with integration of pan-European transport systems.
Key Lessons Learned:
From  the perspective of six years of Project implementation, we have learned the
following lessons:
1.    A  party cooperating with the World Bank or any other International Financial
Institution should comprehensively know own financial standing and have very clear idea of
how to use loan funds.
2.    Before entering the phase of project preparation, such party should carry out internal
economic and financial analysis of debt status and possibilities of servicing future loan
obligations towards the Bank.
3.    During negotiations, future Borrower should explain with the Bank all, even the most
detailed, aspects of cooperation during project implementation, in particular those related to
debt servicing options.
Prepared in:
Division for Cooperation with
International Financial Institutions
~~ADVISEzR
icr-pptl.doc
6



APPENDIX A3
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC ROADS
(Loan 3193)






Evaluation
FIRST TRANSPORT PROJECT
[31 93-POL]
POLAND
ROAD COMPONENT
EXECUTING AGENCY - GDDP
Proiect Obiectives
Primary Objectives together with alterations at implementation
In accordance with SAR (cf SAR, para III.B ) the project objectives were:
(i) development of Pavement Maintenance Svstem (SlUN) including technical assistance and purchase of
necessarv technical equipment, and
(ii) assistance in quality assurance procedures and purchase of laboratory equipment.
To implement the above objectives we planned at first to purchase some goods inaccessible on the Polish
market and comprising the range of:
6 pcs of FWD (i)
3 pcs of Bump Integrator (i)
6 pcs of Vehicle Type Classifiers (i)
26 pcs of Traffic Counters (i)
1 pc of Skid Resistance Trailer (i)
I pc of Skid Resistance Trailer at different/high speeds
2 pcs of Retroreflection Measurement Devices (i)
22 sets of PC (i)
soft-are (i)
technical consultancy and training (i)
spare parts (i)
50 pcs of movable trucks weights (ii)
17 pcs of Compression Testing Machines of 200 kN range (ii)
17 pcs of Compression Testing Machines of 2000 kN range (ii)
17 pcs of Moisture/Density Gauges (ii)
A IU0,kI1NL'II



Besides the above, a necessity of purchasing was foreseen, from the Borrowers funds, of vehicles to
haul the -purchased measurement equipment (SAR, Annex 4E).
The above, together with a general implementation schedule, was prepared in the Road Network
Development Planning Office in a document ent. ,,Study of Equipment Requirements for the Polish
Road Sector to Implement Pavement Maintenance System" [1]. This document was submitted by the
Borrower to the World Bank (SAR, para 3.16).
During the project implementation some circumstances emerged which made it necessary for the
Borrower to introduce changes into its general outline. The most important among them was to create a
complex electronic system storing all technical and economical data of the road sector - socalled Road -
Data Bank. Moreover, a precise discernment of pavement operation features measurement demands
brought about a number of changes on the list of planned equipment purchases. All these changes had
been severally consulted with the World Bank Missions, and obtained their approvement.
In effect, the purchase was made with the following changes:
* 12 pcs of GPS receivers - supplier VECTRA company - to carry out the geographic coordinates
measurement for the referential system, which at present is used for location of all occurrences on
the national road network,
* 1 pc of Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) - supplier VECTRA company - for distinguishing of road
pavement structure to interpret the results of deflection measurement,
* implementation of Highway Investment Programming System (HIPS) and Highway Design
Maintenance System (HDM-Q) purchased from the Finnish Road Administration (FINRA) were
procured,
* instead of 6 pcs of FWD and 3 pcs of Bump Integrators, 3 pcs of FWD manufactured by Dynatest
were bought and 3 pcs of APL - supplier VECTRA company - for longitudinal evenness
measurement,
* instead of 6 pcs of traffic classifiers and 26 pcs of traffic counters a purchase was made of Golden
River equipment for measurement of traffic parameters.
The contract with Golden River listed:
*   15 pcs of Marksman device together with software (in this 9 pcs of devices weighing vehicles
in movement, 6 pcs of classifiers and I device with spare parts),
*   sensors making it possible to install 30 permanent stations for the above measurement devices
(till the present moment 25 stations have been installed on the rural national road network; the
rest of the sensors are treated as spare pieces to replace demaged ones if need be).
*   2 portable sensors for weighing vehicles in movement
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~2



In 1995. using these sensors. initial attempts to weigh overloaded vehicles were made. Serious
hindrance to this was necessity to search out adequately even surface (vhich is required for
installation of sensors), and place outside the road crown for final control of static weight of
vehicle axles.
The price of the contract with Golden River was 489 962 USD.
Basic objective of measurement carried out using Golden River devices is to determine the
pattems connecting class of vehicles vith typical distribution of axle load. In accordance w%ith the
schedule, Marksmans are rotated among 25 measurement stations. Necessity of rotating the
equipment among measurement stations resulted in purchase of additional cables for measurement
nodes and sensors.
NOTES:
* 1)Expensive measurement sensor, used in Golden River equipment are prone to quick damage
in Polish pavements, which limits collected parameters to registration of passing vehicles only in
termns of length interval.
* 2)Absence of service in Poland, customs and spedition procedures in Poland greatly impede the
equipment repairs (removal of even small damage is burdensome and time-taking)
- EMME/2 software which was purchased in 1994 - supplier INRO Consultants Inc. - for an amount of
USD 53986. This is a specialized tool used in planning transport svstems and forecasting traffic
distribution on the existing or designed road network. This software will be utilized for analyzing the
effects of designed changes in transport systems (future construction of motorways and expressways)
also for analyzing transport systems of touristic regions.
- "Nu-Metrics" counters for traffic parameters measurement, which were purched in September 1994
for an amount of USD 7 942.
Altogether they were 2 pcs of NC-90 counters and 4 pcs of NC-30X counters bought for testing their
utility in short-time measurements. In effect of tests (which are being carried on) their lack of
resistance to bad weather was found. Besides, these counters are often stolen or demolished.
* instead of friction coordinate measuring devices as initially planned, patent solution was financed
together with manufacturing of 5 pcs of Polish -made dynamonatric trailers - supplier Road and Bridge
Research Institute (IBDiM). One of these was exhibited in International Experiment of Skid Resistance
Measures Comparison in 1992 with high appraised by specialists.
* additionally within FirstTransport Project cofinanced by the World Bank, technologically advanced
device for road section diagnostics Profilograph was purchased by GREENWOOD Engineering
company. This device will help to collect data on road geometry and other pavement features as rutting
or longitudinal evenness. It is planned to replace the presently used devices for evenness measurement,
APL, by the Profilograph.
A IUORM)L DOC                                                                               3



It was bought in 1996 and is planned to be used this year in routine measurements on the national
road network. It was passed for use in Poznah' - Regional Road Laboratories.
* subsequent among additional devices purchased are balances for weighing vehicles. Nearly 100 pcs
of movable weights for vehicle weighing were bought from a German company's representative in
Poland - IMEX-BIS, previously supplied similar number thereof for road administration purchased
from budget funds. The balances were distributed among all the Regional Directorates of Public
Roads. Here the objective of road administration is having at their disposal at least one set of
balances (6 pcs) in each of 49 voivodeships. Additional purchases of the devices are .planned for
several years.
. in accordance with initial arrangements 2 pcs of retrorefllection measurement devices were
purchased and passed to Poznan Regional Road Laboratory. They have been fully implemented and
are used for routine work, in particular for checking execution of road signing. However, these are
the only existing specimens at the scope of whole country. The device called Ecoluz has from very
start, two functions:
- (I st) measurement on checked section.
Following French experiences, Road Laboratory in Poznari implemented a field test of signing
substances, which are mainly reflective.
The substances are laid on a test section in precisely designed manner and their behavior in time is
scrupulously followed, also in the aspect of gradual decrease of reflectibility. In this respect the
regional Road Laboratory closely cooperates with Bridge and Road Research Institute (IBDiM),
performing the field tests and passing their results to the Institute, which basing on them issued
eventual attestation /certificate of admittance and at present, technical approvals.
- (2) A measurements of on-road reflectibility. Using the Ecoluz device, quality of freshly performed
signing is tested in respect of its reflectibility. The device giving univocal numeric values forced
adequate quality of signing first in the Poznar; region, and then in many other regions of Poland,
when the news was spread that such measurement became possible. This way the device turned to be
the Investor's weapon, and not only new signings but also those with expiring guarantee are tested.
The device performs point measurements. As a rule, the measurement is performed every kilometer,
and so many defects can be missed, resulting only in a general overview.
Demand for this type of measurement at the country's scope is enormous. The Regional Road
Laboratory in Poznan declines most of non-regional offers being short of time. In measurement
season the device is continuously in use.
It is necessary to equip one regional road administration unit in Poland with Ecodyne device for
continuous reflectibility measurement. This French - made device is unique in the global scope.
C WINWORI0)1WBANk SWIVIORDIS d.                                                             4



Panolux
A device called Panolux was used to stabilize situation concerning reflectibility of substances for
vertical signing at the country's scope. At first in the Pomaii region, and then in rest of the countrv in
cooperation with Road and Bridge Research Institute, ISO requirements were implemented. In Poznan
it was used by the Institute for attestation /admittance certificate/ of the substances besides being a
field device, Panolux helps to determine reflectibility of old signing without its dismounting. It is used
sporadically this wvay, just as for sporadic quality controls at signing manufacturers '.
At present, basic task for the device is checking, in respect of reflectibility, of all sings and boards
deliveries to the Regional Directorate of Public Roads (DODP) in Poznan. These controls are
performed in the DODP warehouses, directlv on the delivery.
Similarly to the above, in accordance uith the plan, 50 pcs of electronic balances, 34 pcs of hydraulic
presses and 17 pcs of isotopic devices were purchased by CPN company.
* The electronic balances work effectively in all road laboratories. It is notable that that their senice is
provided by a Polish service company, which is very helpful in all repairs.
 Hydraulic presses in turn, after initial difficulties with official certification, at present work
satisfactorily, with service provided by a Polish company.
* Isotopic probes, however. are used only in limited scope. Greatest hindrance for them is no possibility
of calibration every second year in Poland. Respective regulations restrict crossing the border in a car
transport with them, and using air transport is very expensive. Additional difficulty in putting them to
use are Provisions of Radiological Protection and personnel's fear of being irradiated.
 Instead of 22 PC sets a purchase and installation of 25 pcs as elements of computer network in GDDP,
together with HP 9000 unix server, were made - supplier ComputerLand Poland company.
* Within technical consultancy and training a number of training courses at the country's scope was
carried out and employees of public administration took part in series of courses in France in 1992.
Another element in this component of World Bank's project was participation of Polish road
administration representatives in an international experiment comparing devices for pavement
skid-resistance measurement. This experiment was carried out on territories of Belgium and Spain,
with processing of results and discussion following in years 1993 and 1994 in the USA.
Within home training, two seminars were held to prepare for cooperation at the Road Project. These
were:
*one day seminar held on September 3, 1992 in Warsaw. The seminar topic was prequalification of
bidders for road works procured under the World bank loan. About 125 enterprises from all over
Poland participated. During the seminar the participants were informed on rules and objectives of
prequalification. This schooling ran shortly before invitation for bidders to prequalify for Group I
of Contracts under the World Bank's loan.
A MOKDlS l( X                                                                                5



*three wveek courses were held in September, October and November 1992 in Pokrzvyna. Their topic
was principles of procurement and execution of works basing on :"Standard Bidding Documents,
Procurement of Works - Smaller Contracts" of the World Bank. In two first courses employees of
Regional Directorates of Public Roads were trained as future Contract Engineers, together with
representatives of some design offices preparing the bidding documents. In the last course,
representatives of road-building enterprises were trained.
During the courses the participants were introduced into the principles of Bidding Documents
preparation, including Technical Specifications, choice of Contractor, supervision of Works by the
Employer, clearance of payment for works, and future Bidders in their tum into the principles of
Bid preparation, performance of Works, together with Contractor's rights and duties in relation with
the Employer. The seminar and training courses were carried out by the Danish Road
Adrninistration on order of the GDDP.
During last two month 1996 has been spent for buying 4 pcs of notebooks to the GDDP office -
supplier Computer Group PAKT companv.
Assessment of Project Goals
Growing traffic on the roads under GDDP administration at the same level of financing requires new
approach that would apply instruments helping to use better the available funds. (SAR per 2.21). In
developed countries economies, irnplementation of PMS system is a crucial stage in transition to free
market economy. Due to that the GDDP perceives this particular project as its priority. Planned time
table, considering personnel's lack of experience in the field, appears to be ambitions.
Results and realization Exzerience
Goal realization: Sadsfactory
Explanation: laboratory and measurement equipment purchased was implemented and offered to the road
administration nationwide.
At present measurement of pavement operation features executed with the use of the purchased equipment
is performed as a daily routine and then processed in the Pavement Condition Evaluation System (which
comprises PMS sub-system (see [I]).
Road Data Bank is almost readv; at this point it is installed and service personnel is trained to serve two
out of three designated levels (Regional Directorate of Public Roads and Road Administration (ZD).
The central version is realized; its full working condition is sch.eduled for February 1997.
A: XKWX ,DCX'                                                                           6



The other works on full implementation of Pavement Maintenance Svstem (Polish PMS) based on HIPS
and HDM svstems for central and in pilot units for regional level are going on.
One out of designated goals was not implemented: automatic annual measurement of pavement
bearing capacity. It was caused bv the equipment low operating capacity and lack of data concerning
pavement construction. Lack of such data prevents correct interpretation of data aquired from FWD
deflectometer. Purchase of ground penetrating radar would significantly accelerate in years to come
automatic measurements of pavement bearing capacity on national road network.
Collection of road traffic data concerning national roads network largely improved. Modem measurement
stations as well as mobile facilities enable to perform almost permanent observations on traffic volume
fluctuation. In result, traffic forecasts can more accurate comparing with previous period.
SAR and [1] describe the project subject very precisely. However, particularity of issue affects the
evaluation criteria making them not quite formal but more subjective and descriptive.
Effects durability: probable
Explanation: More then one hundred people are involved in project realization, including personnel dealing
with PMS laboratory, traffic measurements, and other. In addition to this market of Contractors who
execute some expert works, is expending. Road Administration is under permanent pressure of public
opinion (media) which demands information on road safety and road network condition. In such situation
PMS and other systems are very helpful in implementing these goals. Effects depend greatly on project
development and growing participation of people involved in data processing as well as decision makers
who are the end consumers of analyses and data elaborations.
Project costs and time-table:
Planned costs of project realization amounted to 3,200,000 USD plus 260,000 as the Borrower's input.
Project real cost 4,538,432 USD plus .................. as amounted to the Borrower's input.
According to the works time-table equipment delivery was to be completed in 1992 and works completion
was scheduled for the end of 1994.
Real calendar of works realization shows that the equipment delivery was completed in 1995, the PMS
system implementation - the last item of designed program - is presently in realization process.
A JUOPDLI ID-C                                                                         7



Key Problems and Achievement of Goals
Elaboration's [1] prepared by the Borrower and approved by the Bank did not take under consideration
rapid technological progress in the field of equipment designed for road network automatic diagnosing,
in particular computer equipment. Presence of new technologies on the European market forced
numerous modifications to the laboriously prepared project.
The World Bank and the Borrower
Both Partners' performance was adequate and alert to technological novelties. Partners worked on one
basic goal - development of PMS system in Poland according to Borrower needs and challenges of
technology.
Results:
Satisfactory
Summary of Results. Future Operation. Conclusions:
Main effects of project realization experiences Implementation of PMS system brings technical as well
as organization difficulties, which often results in delays in realization of particular elements and the
whole project. Dedication and commitment of responsible personnel contributes essentially to the
achievement of goals. However, the most difficult obstacle to overcome was the road administration old
routines on the way to establish market economy nationwide. Presently the road administration is
interested in efficient operation of all systems supporting the road network management. Particular
systems develop more successfully users' owing to the new demands.
In the Borrower's opinion the weakness of PMS system relies in poor knowledge of pavement bearing
capacity diagnosis including assessment of deflection measurements in specialist literature.
Presently used measurement methods are not efficient and results are not univocal. At this moment
some improvement works are undertaken in order to rationalize such complicated measurements.
The Borrower faces major rutting problem on local roads and how to include this in complex PMS
system.
Adjustment of HDM-Q system to conditions, i.e. system-calibration including frost-penetration, should
be counted as significant achievement
Further plans conceming project operation:
It is planned to measure pavement operation features using the purchased devices.
Following their wear-and-tear the new ones based on laser technology should be introduced.
C ff IN)RI)IX) 1MNK _SW?%11JOKD1S d.'                                                    8



PMS system on central level will obtain full working condition in the middle of 1997 after
implementation of HIPS. On the local level complete implementation of PMS system is expected in
1998 (after implementation of HDM system or its like). In addition, certain formalization in circulation
of information in the road sector is planned. It will cover economic data (available budget, price list of
particular works, ect).
Important part of the system is Road Data Bank. Its data files are basic for functioning of numerous
systems. Due to that fact, road administration priority is to collect missing data, especially those which
result from up-till now arrears were not acquired in the past due to the absence of measurement
potential. Another important step to be taken is to use the GPS technology when localizing events on
the roads. It is planned to assemble GPS receivers on measurement devices and to collect totally
univocal data on pavement operating features and to transmit them to the central computer.
Short term plans conceming improvement in data collection include automatic processing of visual
assessment and traffic measurement.
Considering high costs of these tasks it is necessary to use foreign funds, in particular the PHARE's.
Within next two years training sessions will be provided in order to upgrade skills and specialist
knowledge at every level of the road administration management.
Conclusions for Future Projects.
- Maintaing bilateral contacts: the World Bank - the Borrower
i More frequent expert contacts
e Broader participation in the initial phase of projects of the World Bank experts in order to define
project frames and scope as well as to limit eventual mistakes of other road agencies using the
World Bank loans.
9



LOAN1.XLS
Loan 3193 First Transport Project during 1991-1996
Icompany     j pieces i year   cost
Electronic balances   Sartorius        50       1991      74928
Hydraulic presses     Controls         34       1991  1  162687
Isotopic devices     1CPN              17      1991  1   81366
FWDeflectometer       Dynatest         3       1991      260968
Traffic classifiers  |Golden River     15       1991  1  489962
APL                   |MAP CO           3       1992      264993
Ecolux, Panolux       MAP CO            1       1992  I   32192
GPRadar              IVectra            1    - 1993  1  334623
GPS                   Vectra           12   1  1993  !  219477
PComputers           iComputerland 1          1993-95 7  907237
Skid resistance trailer  IIBDiM        5    1 1994-95 1  284562
Traffic counters      Nu-Metrics       6        1994        7942
EMME -2               Inro Consult     1        1994      53986
HIPS, HDM-Q          |FinnRA            1     1995-96 i   69830
Road Data Bank        Polsoft          1      1994-96    190423
Movable trucks weigths  Imex-bis       97       1996     633344
Profilograph          Greenwood        1        1996     323406
Trainings             DRD, PIARC              1992-93    131291
Notebooks Tulip      IC. G. PAKT       4        1996       15215
Total                                                   4538432
GDDP - part            _            _                   4540620
MTiGM-part                                   I _         209380
Total                 I    _     _  4_5V000
10



APPENDIX B
MAP






1^                ~~           ~~~                 ~~16-  118-        2       -                2     ,2                                                                                         RD608
7r -r-  ~~  i ~~ z  ~   '   \ 1\ - Guli oi GdsmsS 15kSp--_ FEDAON                   2   ~~~~L I T H U A N I A                                     POLAND
<   8                ,        :               Jtat  ~~~ >    ~~ ~r-_                        !       B- ot;wnK-Ib                          i                     EXPRESSWAYS
rW 5--                                                                                                             Ski                                   5                      m- OTE MAINROD
'^) >'< '' ~~~ > Y A > ,p,,,t<,2Q,H,-MDsg,:-tUmer~~~~JVALK
I %o hs2\gs,4 , o Rtochowr /1< ~~~~~~~~X~ J Dg i ~~~ \ (> XZomosc > NORWAr i} ESTONIAx   RJlROAD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRORTd 00 Ss1 
R E P U B L I C , , s> ff - > - > ( v r: u K R A I N E 6 GERMANY ) UKRAINE~~~MAOR PORT
/ rO O,Ir/VO 5 2 r J s jf \ ) 7 u r-_ (S S~~~~~~~NTIONL CPITLREp  %; 
L   J AUSTRtA;            ,!            s  L  o   v  A   K  2O  R  E  P  U   B  L  I C   22- ~~~~~~~~~~~~> ' B.    y,t          /           (E E)   STROVNC   /WJ W DT O     OCAP TALS 









IMAGING
Report No.:          16722
Type       ICR



