Page  1
                                   LOAN NUMBER 3194 POL
                  Guarantee Agreement
            (Transport Project - Railways)
                        between
                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND
                          and
         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                    AND DEVELOPMENT
                  Dated June 11, 1990
                  GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1990, between REPUBLIC
OF POLAND (the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Polish State
Railways (the Borrower), having been satisfied as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Borrower, the Bank has agreed
to extend to the Borrower a loan in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred forty-five million dollars
($145,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake such
other obligations as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the
Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations
of the Borrower and to undertake such other
obligations;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
                       ARTICLE I
            General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to and Section 1.02 of
Page  2
the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                      ARTICLE II
             Guarantee; Provision of Funds
     Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this
end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, hereby
unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not
as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the
Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction
upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement,
the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there
is reasonable cause to believe that the funds available
to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of
the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.
                      ARTICLE III
                    Other Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall not contribute to,
or participate in, any increase in the Borrower's
equity unless the ratio of the Borrower's debt to
equity shall be greater than 20 to 80 and then only to
the extent that such contribution or participation
shall not result in such ratio to be less than 20 to
80.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term, "debt", means any indebtedness
               of the Borrower maturing by its terms
               more than one year after the date on
               which it is originally incurred.
          (ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
               loan contract or agreement or other instrument
               providing for such debt or for the modification
               of its term of payment on the date of such
               contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
               a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
               providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
          (iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the
               total unimpaired paid-up capital,
               retained earnings and reserves of the
               Borrower not allocated to cover specific
               liabilities.
          (iv) Whenever for the purposes of this
               Section it shall be necessary to value,
               in terms of the currency of the
               Guarantor, debt payable in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made
               on the basis of the prevailing lawful
Page  3
               rate of exchange at which such other
               currency is, at the time of such
               valuation, obtainable for the purposes
               of servicing such debt, or, in the
               absence of such rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
    Section 3.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Guarantor shall adjust the level of the
Borrower's tariffs on January 1, 1991, and thereafter on
the first day of each quarter of each fiscal year as
shall be necessary to: (i) reflect, in accordance with a
methodology acceptable to the Bank, (A) the increases in
the Producer Price Index during the previous quarter, and
(B) 50% of the estimated increase in said Index during
the present quarter; and (ii) meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) of Section 5.03 of the Loan
Agreement as indicated by the reviews to be carried out
pursuant to paragraph (b) of said
Section 5.03.
    (b)  Not later than 15 days before the beginning of
each such quarter, the Guarantor shall calculate, on the
basis of guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, the
adjustments to the level of said tariffs to be made in
order to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)
of this Section in respect of such quarter and thereafter
take all necessary action to ensure that such
requirements are met.
    (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "Producer Price Index" means the
               producer price index for industrial goods
               published monthly by the Central
               Statistical Office of the Guarantor;
         (ii)  the term, "estimated increase in the Producer
               Price Index", means the increase in said Index
               during the most recent period of three con-
               secutive months for which said Index has been
               published.
                      ARTICLE IV
      Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
    Section 4.01.  The Minister of Finance of the
Guarantor is designated as representative of the
Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified
for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General
Conditions:
          For the Guarantor:
          Ministry of Finance
          00-901, Warzawa
          ul. Swietokrzyska 12
          Republic of Poland
          Cable address:                Telex
          MINF                          814386
          Poland
          For the Bank
Page  4
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.D. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address                 Telex:
          INTBAFRAD                     197688 (TRT)
          Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA)
                                         64145 (WUI)
                                         82987 (FTCC)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting
through their duly authorized representatives, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of CoLumbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND
                  By  /s/ F. Wieladok
                                       Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ W.A. Wapenhans
                                         Regional Vice President
                          European, Middle East and North Africa
