Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE, ONLY
Report No: 21876
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(20569)
ON A
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.8 MILLION
TO THE
CZECH REPUBLIC
FOR A
CZECH REPUBLIC - Kyjov Waste Heat Utilization Project
10/15/2001
Energy Sector Unite
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 15, 2001)
Currency Unit = Czech Koruna
CZK 1 = US$ 0.0267
US$ 1 = CZK 37.4
Exchangerate at Appraisal (03/98): US$1 = 34.1
Average Exchangerate in 1999:    US$ 1= 37.6
Average Exchangerate in 2000:    US$ 1= 38.6
Average Rate to date in 2001:  US$ 1= 38.4
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEZ  - Ceske Energeticke Zavody (National     kV        - Kilovolt
supplier of electricity)              Kyjov     - the City of Kyjov
CHP  - Combined Heat and Power                MoE       - Ministry of Environment of the Czech
CO2  - Carbon Dioxide                                     Republic
CR   - Czech Republic                         MW        - Megawatt
DH   - District Heating                       MWh       - Megawatthour
FIRR - Financial Internal Rate of Return      NBF       - Non-Bank-Financed
GEF  - Global Environment Facility            NCB       - National Competitive Bidding
GHG  - Greenhouse Gas                         PAD       - Project Appraisal Document
GW   - Gigawatt                               PCD       - Project Concept Document
GWh - Gigawatthour                            SCM       - Standard Cubic Meter
HEX  - HEX Capital s.r.o. (financial consultants   SDR  - Special Drawing Rights
of TPK)                               SEF       - State Environmental Fund
HVB  - Hypovereinsbank                       tCe        - Tons of Carbon Equivalent
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding    tCO        - Tons of Carbon Dioxide
JME  - Jihomoravska Energetika, a.s. (South   TPK       - Teplarna Kyjov (District Heating Company
Moravian Power Company)                           of Kyjov)
JMP  - Jihomoravska Elektroenergeticka, a.s.  UNFCCC  - United Nations Framework Convention on
(South Moravian Power Co.)                        Climate Change
VAT       - Value Added Tax
VMG       - Vetropak Moravia Glass
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:   Roger Grawe, ECC07
Sector Manager:   Henk Busz, ECSEG
Task Team Leader:   Helmut Schreiber, ECSEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CZECH REPUBLIC
CZECH REPUBLIC - Kyjov Waste Heat Utilization Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                16
6. Sustainability                                                                    18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     20
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   22
9. Partner Comments                                                                  23
10. Additional Information                                                           26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and BorTower Performance                                    34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P045572                                         Project iVame: CZECH REPUBLIC - Kyjov Waste
Heat Utilization Project
Team Lea(ler: Helmut Schreiber                              TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date: October 15. 2001
1. Project Data
Name. CZECH REPUBLIC - Kyjov Waste Heat Utilization  LIC/TFN Nwnber: 20569
Project
Counoy/Department. CZECH REPUBLIC                                           Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion; VP -
Pollution Control / Waste Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  08/08/1997                                Effectiv,e:  11/18/1998
Appraisal:  03/17/1998                                  M-TR:
Approval:  08/27/1998                                Closing.  06/30/2000          03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  CZECH REPUBLIC/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
Other- Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes F. Linn                            Johannes F. Linn
Countrv Manager.      Roger Grawe                                 Roger Grawe
Sector Manager:       Henk Busz                                   Michele E. De Nevers
Team Leader at ICR.   Helmut Schreiber                            Helmut Schreiber
ICR Primamy Author.  J. Christian Duvigneau; Victor B.
Loksha
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcomne: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Perfbrmance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)         ICR
Qutality at Entay: S                       S
Project at Risk at 4ny Tinme: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The major objective of the Project was to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), notably
CO2. This objective was to be achieved by means of increasing the efficiency and reliability of heat
supply to the city of Kyjov (Kyjov), and of the heat and power supply to the Vetropack Moravia
Glas s.a. (VMG) Factory, through introduction of gas-fired combined-cycle heat and power
(CHP) production and through intensified use of waste process heat generated at VMG.
Associated project objectives were to (a) demonstrate gas-fired combined-cycle cogeneration in
the Czech Republic where this technology was not yet widely used; (b) stimulate technological
and institutional changes that would promote energy efficiency through developing CHP systems
for joint industrial and municipal purposes; (c) achieve local environmental benefits by reducing
the proportion of pollution-intensive fuels (such as lignite) in the fuel mix used for heat and power
supply; and (d) demonstrate the possibility of cooperative efforts between the Czech Ministry of
Environment (MoE) and the private sector in enhancing the environmental benefits from such a
project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The above objectives remained unchanged throughout implementation of the Project.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project consisted of five physical components and one component for project supervision and
dissemination activities. The following paragraph provides indications on the package, its
estimated costs (US$ million) and procurement arrangements:
Component A: Procurement and installation of a gas-fired combined-cycle heat and power
(CHP) plant, estimated to cost US$ 20.35 million, and comprising two gas turbines (8.0 MW of
electric capacity each) as well as one steam driven turbine (7.0 MW of electric capacity) The
plant was procured as a turn-key contract under international competitive bidding (ICB)). The
total capacity of the CHP Plant was to be 23 MW of electricity and 18 MW of heat generation.
Component B: Replacement and retrofitting of waste heat boilers at the Glass Factory (new
boiler # 51, replacing a hot water boiler by a steam boiler, and retrofitting of boiler #52);
estimated to cost US$ 1.56 million (to be contracted under ICB).
Component C: Construction and Re-construction of existing buildings at the VMG glass
factory; estimated to cost US$ 0.745 million (contracted under local competitive bidding prior to
appraisal).
Component D: Modernization and expansion of the district heat (DH) network of the City of
Kyjov; estimated to cost US$ 1.64 million, (procured as a turn-key contract under ICB). This
would involve supply and installation, in channel-free design, of preinsulated pipes of about 6km
with instrumentation and control cables.
Components A to D were to be implemented by the private company Teplama Kyjov s.a. (TPK)
which would own and operate the CHP plant.
-2 -



Component E: Decommissioning of about 13 boiler houses in Kyjov (partly gas fired, partly
coal fired) and heat supply replacement by connection to the DH network and by installation of
substations with heat exchangers. Estimated to cost US$ 0.52 million (procured under local
competitive bidding). This component would be implemented by the City's district heat
enterprise.
Component F: Project supervision and dissemination activities, including training and public
relations matters, to be implemented by the MoE with the help of staff and consultants.
Estimated to cost US$ 0.120 million. to be procured under Bank Guidelines.
3.4 Revised Components:
Original Components were not revised in substance. Minor modifications were undertaken with
respect to improvements to the waste heat boilers' design, improvements to gas turbines and
steam turbine, after these were not meeting criteria for specified efficiencies during the first tests,
There were modifications to the heat exchanger system at the hospital, an enlarged heat network.
By component, these modifications took place during implementation as follows:
Component A:      During testing and start-up a number of minor modifications were
introduced to the CHP system to allow for improved efficiencies of individual sub-components
which would permit to meet the targeted efficiency parameters for the CHP plant. The capacities
were almost reached as planned (96.4%), but gas consumption of the gas turbines was slightly
higher than targeted (about 8%). The capital costs for this major component (covering almost
80% of the total project costs) were only 0.5% higher than originally estimated.
Component B:      The timing and scope of this component was modified, with boiler #52 only
to be retrofitted after the completion of testing and early operation of the boiler #51. This was
done to apply lessons from the operation of the new boiler #51 to be applied to boiler #52. As a
result of these lessons, the scope of replacements for boiler #52 was significantly higher than
earlier estimated which explains the higher costs of that component (34% increase).
Component C:       The original plans for making use of existing buildings were modified in
light of evolving requirements for the CHP plant which was to be housed in the modified
buildings. Cost savings were realized in the process (29% decrease).
Component D:      This component was executed as planned. Costs turned out to be higher
(31%) with civil works for laying pipes underestimated.
Component E:      This component was executed as planned, with 15 boilers replaced instead
of 13 boilers. Costs tumed out to be higher (29%) with the number of boilers, and costs of boiler
disposal, installation of substations with heat exchanger underestimated.
Component F:      This component was executed as planned but costs tumed out to be slightly
higher than estimated (17%).
Overall the Project was executed as planned in terms of capacities, costs, and timing, with cost
overruns for the total Project amounting to only about 4%.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was developed and structured in the context of green house gas emission reduction
requirements in the Czech Republic, with the global impact as outlined in the Country Program
and the general project eligibility criteria guidelines of the GEF. The Czech republic signed the
UNFCCC in 1993, and entered into obligations as mandated by the Kyoto Protocol. The
-3-



government agreed to undertake measures to reduce green house gas emissions and meet
requirements of reducing emissions at or below 1990 level by the first commitment period
2008-2012. The Country agreed to reduce green house gases emissions by 8% according to
Kyoto protocol provisions.
The Project was thoroughly prepared with Czech technical consultants, economic expertise and a
Czech financial consulting firm. It was reviewed and appraised by the Bank-staff who contributed
substantially with proposals for improvements in technical, economic and financial aspects. The
joint venture concept of the implementing company, Teplama Kyjov s.a. (TPK) led to an overall
agreement among the shareholders to meet the Project objectives in spite of their diverging
interests. Although the sellers of gas and waste heat would want to see high prices for their
deliveries, although the customers for heat and power would want to see minimal purchase
prices, compromise formulae were developed and contractually agreed, which maintained the
viability of the Project. Thus the shareholders (which were suppliers of inputs and/or customers
for the outputs of the Project) reached agreement which were designed to help the Project to
achieve its objectives. The thorough preparation of a prospectus for the company and Project,
led to vivid interest among over 70 potential investors with 10 evaluated in detail, and two
selected for final negotiations. A similar approach was used to select the commercial Bank
competitively.
As a result of the above, the quality at entry is considered to be satisfactory. There was a QUAG
Review at entry, which commended the project concept and preparation. It saw a number of
highly satisfactory aspects (Project concept, institutional set-up, private sector development with
highly efficient tendering for foreign investors and commercial bank lending, project preparation).
It also made a point about the economic incremental cost analysis with respect to future
expansion costs of the electricity grid arguing that these may have been overestimated, making
the project appear too positive from a GEF point of view. It also pointed to a discrepancy
between the environmental report which claimed replacement of gas fired and coal fired boilers
whereas the appraisal report talked about gas fired boilers only. As it turns out, the majority of
boilers replaced was gas fired but there was also a number of coal fired boilers. (Can we get the
exact numbers of these categories). Overall, the QUAG rated the Project as "Satisfactory" at
entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Oiitcome/achievement of objective:
The objective of the project, namely to reduce GHG, was achieved, as well as the associated
objectives, as described in Section 3.1 above. All Project components were successfully erected
and completed on time, and commissioned.
The major component of the project, the CHP plant, including auxiliary equipment, was
completed in April 1999 after a year of intensive building and installation activities. After
completion of the trial testing of the CHP Plant, the heat and power facility was put into
operation in October 1999. The CHP Plant utilizes waste heat from the VMG glass factory and
additional new gas-firing facilities (gas turbines), as well as a steam turbine, to produce heat and
electricity. The gas is supplied by the South Moravian Gas Company (JMP). The CHP Plant
- 4 -



supplies heat and electricity to VMG, sells its electricity surplus to the regional grid of the South
Moravian Power Company (JME), and sells heat to the district heating system of the adjacent
City of Kyjov. JMP, JME, and VMG, were main shareholders in the Project until a foreign
shareholder was selected after an international call for tenders. Subsequently, VMG sold its
shares to the foreign shareholder (Isar-Ampere Werke, now EON of Germany). The city of
Kyjov also holds a small share in the company.
The objective of modernization and expansion of the district heating network in the City of
Kyjov and linkage with the CHP Plant was also achieved. For the purposes of project
implementation the City of Kyjov converted its district heating department into a fully owned
self-standing company TEPLO KYJOV. Fifteen old boiler houses (two more than originally
planned) were decommissioned, reconstructed and replaced with new heat exchanger
sub-stations. In addition to GEF funds, the State Environmental Fund (SEF) in the Czech
Republic provided funds for expansion of district heating system and its reconstruction.
Moreover, the City of Kyjov granted additional money from its own budget to carry out
complementary activities of this component not covered by the SEF and GEF Grants.
Nevertheless total heat demand has been significantly lower than estimated at appraisal. Bank
supervision missions have repeatedly suggested to make special efforts to increase the heat load
of the Project through aggressive promotion of the district heat system, to compensate for the
reduced heat demand resulting from energy efficiency measures of customers.
After completion of the first trial testing of both components and of all auxiliary equipment, the
project was put into operation in October 1999 when the CHP Plant and district heating system
were fully operational. The State Environmental Fund (SEF) approved of the achievement of
estimated objectives and of correct disbursement statements prepared by the Project owners, as
well as by the City of Kyjov in their statements issued in January 2000. The district heating
system currently operates at steady state regime and ensures satisfactory and reliable function of
the heat supply to the city.
Due to some initial problems with the efficiency and specific gas consumption of the gas turbines
and lower than expected efficiency of the steam turbine, at the first testing, the full start of
operations of the plant was delayed, and due to repeated testing, showed a slower learning curve
than estimated at appraisal. Despite a number of improvements, subsequently undertaken in the
sub-components of the CHP plant (with substantial inputs from the Bank's supervision teams),
TPK will have to live with marginally lower efficiencies (about 2% to 4%) and slightly higher gas
consumption (between 3% and 8%) than originally estimated. The tests for individual components
had to be repeated at least once, and several times for the operation of the first waste heat boiler.
This was due to initially insufficient filtering of waste heat streams from the glass furnaces which
required substantial cleaning of the boilers and steam turbine. This problem was subsequently
overcome.
Thus the major objective of the project, reduction of the emissions of green house gases, was
realized in an overall satisfactory manner.
In line with the Project Appraisal Report, the secondary project objectives were also realized: a)
- 5 -



improved energy efficiency through the introduction of combined-cycle heat and power
generation for the joint utilization in industrial sector and for municipal purposes; b) local
environmental benefits through the reduction of the share of lignite in the fuel mix for heat and
power generation; and c) cooperation between the government, regional institutions and private
industry to help enhance the environmental benefits from such a Project.
4.2 Outputs hy conmponents:
4.2.1 CHP Plant
Construction of CHP plant in the City of Kyjov represented the core component of the project.
The CHP Plant includes installation of two gas turbines, a condensing steam turbine, one exhaust
gas boiler, transformer station, connection to the electric grid and gas supply network, heat
feeder and heat exchange station, a 22 kV transformer station, and, finally, a water treatment
plant. The CHP Plant nominal output was designed to be 23 MW of electricity and 18 MW of
heat in the form of steam as well as hot water. As per the design, the CHP Plant utilizes waste
heat from Vetropack Moravia Glass a.s.(VMG) factory, supplemented by gas firing, and
produces steam, hot water and electricity. This is to displace production of electricity in a nearby
lignite-fired power plant, as well as heat production from gas- and coal-fired boilers in the City of
Kyjov through TPK supplied district heat for the City's expanded DH network.
At appraisal, the annual output of the plant was estimated to be 196.6 TJ of heat supplied to
VMG and to the City, and 184 GWh of electricity for sale to VMG and the regional electricity
grid of JME. This output was based on inputs of waste heat from the VMG plant as well as an
estimated gas consumption of 40.24 million SCM per year. On the basis of these figures and an
assumed replacement of electricity produced by lignite firing, the project would save
approximately 143.2 thousand tons of CO2 per year during the twenty year of project life-cycle
(total of 2.87 million tons of CO2 over the life-cycle).
During the first year of operation, in the year 2000, the output of electricity was below the output
targets set up at the start of project. Due to the repeated testing, the actual availability of the
CHP plant in year 2000 was lower than estimated, with resulting lower production of electricity
(162 GWh) and sales of only 158.3 GWh instead of the planned sales of 176.4 GWh. In terms of
heat sales the situation was more dramatic due to lower than estimated demand. Thus, actual
sales of 196.6 TJ compared with actual sales of only 111.0 TJ, as actual consumption was, on
average, about 43% lower than estimated for all major customers (DH network, Hospital, and
VMG). The availability of the CHP plant was affected due to several technical problems and
unexpected frequent cuts off of the plant.  It was observed that the plant faced frequent
difficulties with the gas turbines, a steam turbine and waste heat boiler 51. In addition, TPK had
to fix several technical and mechanical problems connected with different equipment (e.g. leakage
of steam at the high-pressure steam distributor; insufficient capacity of the condenser at higher
temperatures than 30 degrees C; repeated failure of the fuel controlling element at the gas
turbines; excessive noise from the condenser fans, which had to be replaced by plastic fans to
meet environrmental standards). These technical problems resulted in frequent stops of plant. The
total availability was also affected through repeated testing of equipment and guarantee
measurements carried out by the operator of the plant. In addition, the lower heat demand
- 6 -



affected the overall efficiency of the CHP plant. As a result, the efficiency of the electricity
production declined further.  Therefore, specific measures were proposed and technical
improvements were carried out to improve availability of the plant and achieve a higher output of
electricity. The improvements and measures are summarized below:
a)    Gas Turbines:
Technical improvements at the gas turbines were undertaken to achieve improved efficiencies and
the specific heat consumption guaranteed by the general supplier of equipment.
A stock of major spare parts and a refinement of the service contract with the gas turbine supplier
were established to enable TPK to shorten the time needed for repairs of different equipment, to
decrease losses from lower electricity production, and to increase total availability of the plant.
The frequency of washings of turbines could be reduced, thereby increasing availability and
electricity generation.
The high difference of the temperature of the burner flames during the restart of the gas turbines
was reduced to shorten the time needed for restart and increase availability.
b)    Steam Turbine
The high noise generated by the fans at the air cooled condenser was reduced through
replacement with plastic fans. As a result of the then possible increased fan speed, the steam
turbine output could be increased.
A new heat exchanger was added in the room housing the steam turbine. By using heat from that
heat exchanger, the plant is making better use of its steam. The heat from the heat exchangers at
the end of the heat recovery boilers is used to pre-heat the condensate to an approximate
temperature of 90 C. A smaller quantity of steam is sent to the feed water tank (degasifier) with
more steam available for the turbine, resulting in a small increase in electricity generation.
The supply of heat to VMG was changed from steam to hot water, and heat from the heat
recovery boilers of the gas turbines is now used for more electricity generation. The impact of
this innovation is an increase in electricity production, because the steam is no longer spent on
VMG's technological needs.
C)    Waste Heat Boilers of the Glass Factory
The first waste heat boiler (behind glass melting furnace #51) was put into operation at the same
time as the CHP Plant. During early operation the boiler suffered from a number of mechanical
problems caused mainly by sucking in particulate matter from the glass melting furnace. This
particulate matter affected the operation and maintenance of the boiler, which considerably
reduced boiler availability. The supplier of the boiler was asked to undertake changes in the
design to reduce the uptake of particulate matter and thereby to reduce the frequency of washing
- 7 -



of the boiler. The resulting increased availability is now satisfactory.
TPK decided as a result of these initial problems with the first waste heat boiler (#51), to
postpone the production and installation of the second waste heat boiler (#52) until after the
correction of the mechanical problems of the first. The second waste heat boiler was installed and
commissioned in December 2000, i.e more than six months after originally planned completion.
A further problem of waste heat boiler operation resulted from the fluctuation of the daily level of
glass production and the composition of raw material inputs, which influenced the daily steam
production. of the waste heat boiler. Daily glass production averages about 300 tons throughout
the year, but may vary up or down by 20%. Furthermore, recycled glass, used as "raw material",
needs less heat than glass produced from silicates, but the proportion of recycled glass, used in
total production, varies. The average glass production of 300 t of glass per day corresponded to
about 4.3t/h of steam from one waste heat boiler at projected availability. As the frequency of
cleaning the waste heat boiler could be reduced significantly, there will be no problem to
produce the needed quantity of 8 tlh of steam, on average, from the two heat boilers .
It was further observed that the maximum steam production of boiler #51 was 5.45 t/hour. Such
a peak may occur several times a year, depending on glass production and raw material
composition. But it is rather unlikely that this high production level would occur simultaneously
in both boilers (glass melting funaces #51 and #52). Thus, the gear of the steam turbine is
unlikely to be overloaded (maximum permissible load is 9.1 MW).
d)    Heat Supply to the City of Kyjov
Heat demand has been much lower in the DH network and the hospital than previously estimated.
While it must be seen that the last two winters (1999/2000 and 2000/2001) were unusually warm,
there has also been a significant reduction in demand due to energy conservation measures and
some customers converting to gas heating. The Bank supervision team has recommended that
TPK and the City aggressively promote district heating so that the heat load will rise back to the
level estimated at appraisal. This would help to improve the efficiency of the CHP Plant.
The peak demand for district heat of the City, usually in the morning, has exceeded the maximum
possible heat output of the heat exchangers at times (sometimes even in summertime). Steam was
used to meet the additional demand. To avoid this and associated losses of electricity production,
it was recommended that heat from the heat exchangers could be stored during night time, and
then released during the morning peak demand hours. "Storage" could be achieved by increasing
the temperature in the DH pipe system during the night and/or in new storage tanks, which could
be constructed. This recommendations has not yet been acted upon.
The Achievement of Electricity Production
From the CO, emission reduction perspective, electricity output has a higher priority as it
displaces coal-fired electricity production from the grid. The project originally estimated during
steady state operation (i.e.from 2001) an annual amount of power output for sale of 183 GWh,
- 8 -



delivered to the users (approximately 57 GWh to VMG and 126 GWh to the regional electric
grid). During year 2000, the CHP plant actually sold a total of 158.3 GWh against a plan of
176.4 GWh. Sales to VMG were realized at the contractual level of about 57 MWh, whereas
sales to the regional grid of JME fell short by about 19 GWh, reaching only about 100 GWh, due
to lower than estimated production.
TPK achieved lower output of electricity due to the lower than expected plant availability. The
availability was affected by the frequent stoppages of equipment due to technical problems and
non-availability of essential spare parts. Availability fluctuated considerably in 2000: during the
first quarter TPK achieved an average of 86.6%, in the second quarter 90.2%, in the third quarter
only 76.0%, and in the fourth quarter 94.7%. Actual availability in 2000 was calculated as the
equivalent of maximal output of the plant (7631 hours achieved) compared to the theoretical
availability of 8784 hours in the year 2000. Thus, actual total availability was 86.88% of annual
availability.
Guarantee measurements carried out in December 2000 proved achievement of the guaranteed
electric capacity of 19,959.75 kW with a tolerance of +/- 0.493%.
The Achievement of Heat Production
Under steady state operations (for heat already year 2000), annual heat production from the
Project was estimated to amount to 196.6 TJ, with sales of 86.6 TJ to the City of Kyjov, 55.0 TJ
to the Hospital, and 55.0 TJ to VMG. But, in 2000 TPK actually sold only 111.0 TJ (56% of
estimate), with 60.4 TJ to the City, 30.0 TJ to the Hospital, 20.6 TJ to the VMG).
The sale of heat is below target due to lower than expected demand for heat. The lower demand
was due to a number of factors such as (a) unexpected mild winters; (b) energy saving
investments of heat customers; (c) improved efficiency of new heat exchanger sub-stations in the
City, and (d) reduced heat losses of the heating network which, in parts was modernized with
pre-insulated pipes. The DH Company and TPK should promote DH services and expand the
system to gain new customers. This would compensate for some of the lost load and would help
to improve the overall efficiency of the CHP Plant.
At this time, TPK estimates heat sales in 2002 amounting to a total of 148.9 TJ, with sales to the
City network of 65.7 TJ, to the hospital of 33.0 TJ, and VMG of 50.2 TJ. This is still almost 25%
below the targets estimated ex ante.
The Consumption of Fuel
The consumption of natural gas by the CHP Plant was estimated at Project appraisal to be 40.24
million SCM/year for the steady state situation. In fact, the actual gas consumption reflected the
present technical parameters of gas turbines and their availability. Specific heat consumption
measured at the occasion of the second guarantee tests, and expressed in kJ/kWh fluctuated
above the set targets in the range from 1.5% to 3.5% including the spread of the tolerance of
measurements (+/-1%). But of course, the repeated starts and stops of the plant in early 2000,
-9-



and the lower than estimated availability of the plant, increased unit gas consumption further. As
a result of improvements carried out by TPK, together with the supplier of the gas turbines,
specific heat consumption, in year 2000, showed continued improvements. In the first quarter the
plant achieved, on average, 262.4 m3/MWh, in the second quarter 255.5 m3/MWh, in the third
quarter 252.6 m3/MWh and, in the fourth quarter 249.9 m3/MWh. On average, the annual
consumption was 255.0 m3/MWh compared to the estimate of 219.0 m3/MWh, or 16% higher
than foreseen. The fourth quarter of 2000 was still 14% above target. The improvements carried
out by the plant result in an estimated consumption, in 2002 of 43.7 million SCM at an electricity
production estimated at 177.5 GWh. This is equivalent to 246 m3/MWh or 12 % above the
originally estimated consumption. It is unlikely that TPK can significantly reduce this figure
further.
The Achievement of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Reduction Targets
The amount of greenhouse gas (in this case, CO2) emissions prevented from being emitted into the
atmosphere due to the project is very difficult to measure directly. Thus, analytical methods are
used. The basic hypothesis behind the CO2 emission reductions resulting from this project is that
TPK's CHP plant is one of the electric generation units feeding its output into an electric grid
with a fixed demand for electricity in any given hour of the year. Hence, the electricity produced
by TPK's plant displaces the electricity that otherwise would have been produced by other
plant(s) which would be, arguably, more polluting (lignite-fired). An additional (although not
large) amount of CO2 emission savings results from the replacement of heat boilers in the town of
Kyjov with the heat exchangers installed under the project. This is due to a higher efficiency of the
CHP plant compared to these boilers and due to the fact that some of these boilers were
coal-fired.
The quantitative estimates of CO2 emission reductions achieved by TPK are based on the
demonstrated performance of the CHP plant over the first two years of operation and the forecast
for the rest of the 20-year lifetime of the project. The numbers below are based on the
extrapolation of the existing performance of the plant for the rest of the project's lifetime. The
appraisal estimates are used as the point of reference.
Parameter                         Estimate at   Estimate at   Difference Percent
appraisal    project closing          difference
Lifetime greenhouse gas emission   2,865,524     2,666,203        -        -7%
reduction, tons of CO2                                         199,321
Cost per dollar of GEF grant, US$/tCO2  2.02        2.18        + 0.15      +7%
Cost per dollar of GEF grant, US$/tCe  7.42        7.98         + 0.55     +7%
The shortfall on the original target for CO2 reductions is thus estimated to be about 7% (199,321
out of 2,865,524 ton CO). This shortfall is largely due to the less-than-expected efficiency of the
gas turbines and the resulting increase in the consumption of natural gas by the plant. Still, the
shortfall is well within the uncertainty margins associated with the 20-year project cycle. The need
- 10-



to allow for such uncertainty has always been recognized by the project team and described in the
PAD in the context of sensitivity analysis for the cost of GHG emission abatement. The fact to
emphasize is that the global objective of the project is not jeopardized due to this shortfall. The
updated estimate of the unit cost paid by the GEF for carbon emission reduction is still below
US$10 per ton of carbon and thus within the safety margin that still allows to view the project as
an attractive investment for the GEF. The shortfall in terms of GHG reductions can be completely
recovered by 3-4 years of additional operation of the plant.
The possibility of a reduced number of hours of operation of the plant has also been considered.
The reduction could be due a change in the operation mode of the plant, which may switch from
baseload to intermediate and peak load operation in an attempt to reduce the number of hours of
unprofitable off-peak operation. The realization of this possibility would have a much greater
impact on the CO emission reductions. Still, the unit cost of CO2 reduction for the GEF is likely
to remain within US$10 per ton of carbon if the plant reverts to the baseload operation mode
(8400 h/year or more) at some point in the future.
Number of hours of Number of years   Lifetime greenhouse   Cost per dollar of
operation during    before return to    gas emission reduction, GEF grant, US$/tCe
the next several   baseload operation tons of CO2
years
8400 (baseload                              2,666,203             7.98
operation)
5000                       10               2,133,024             9.97
4000                        7               2,183,206             9.74
3000                        6               2,158,115             9.85
2000                        5               2,164,387             9.83
The table above shows that a temporary reduction in the number of hours of operation of the
plant may extend to several years without changing the conclusion that the project yields CO2
reductions in an amount of more than 2.1 million tCO2 and at a cost less than US$ 10/tCe to the
GEF. However, the need to revert to baseload operation after several years needs to be
emphasized. TPK's failure to do so would certainly lead to failure to deliver carbon emission
reductions at less than US$1 0/tCe. The possibility and the timing of return to baseload operation
would depend on the profitability of such operation in the context of the future market prices for
electricity. It is expected that 5-8 years may pass before the price of electricity on the Czech grid
is sufficiently high for TPK to operate profitably as a baseload unit. This would require an
increase of the grid price of electricity. Such an increase would be necessary in order to allow for
expansion of the Czech electric generation capacity. At present, there is no allowance for capacity
expansion in the grid tariffs, but this is unlikely to continue for more than a few years.
Overall, barring major alterations of the existing regime of the CHP plant, the achievement of the
global objective to reduce the emissions of greenhouse gases is considered satisfactory.
- 11 -



4.2.2 Modernization of Expansion of District Heating
This component originally envisaged decommissioning 13 boiler houses, the installation of new
heat exchanger sub-stations in these buildings, expansion and modernization of the district
heating network, and connection of the network with the centralized heat supply of the CHP
plant. For the purposes of project implementation, the City of Kyjov established a heating
company TEPLO KYJOV. The State Environmental Fund in the Czech Republic approved funds
for financing of the reconstruction of district heating system.
The State Environmental Fund (SEF) signed an agreement with the City of Kyjov to provide
grant support, amounting to CZK 17.5 million to help cover estimated costs of this component.
The schedule of implementation of the reconstruction works was closely coordinated with the
construction of the CHP Plant. Following a new concept of connecting the district hospital in
Kyjov with the heat supply from the CHP Plant, the TEPLO KYJOV expanded the district
heating network and erected two additional heat exchangers. Additional costs of this expansion
were recovered through the budget of the City of Kyjov. In addition, the City of Kyjov funded
preparation of design and technical documentation, all measurements related to this component
and, testing of the heat exchangers during commissioning of the district heating system. In the
end, 15 boiler houses were shut down and replaced by substations with heat exchangers.
The entire Project component was completed in October 1999, when the CHP Plant and district
heating system were commissioned. SEF approved of the achievements of the scope of work and
the correctness of disbursements made for the Project component implemented by the City of
Kyjov, and issued an Endorsement Statement on January 2000. The district heating system is
currently run in a steady state regime and provides reliable services. Thus, the objective for this
component was achieved without significant problems.
One positive environmental impact is manifest through the decreased NOx emissions in the
critical localities of the City of Kyjov. The Project also contributed to the achievement of higher
energy efficiency, heat savings and reduction of maintenance costs while running the district heat
network in the City. After commissioning the heat exchanger sub-stations a number of personnel,
needed earlier to maintain the district heating equipment, was reduced from 23 to 6. On the other
hand, the CHP plant created sixteen jobs with required higher levels of education.
During the year 2000, several new customers in the city were connected with the centralized
heating system, including: the Municipal House, the House of Culture, and a primary school
building. In the future, the district heating system could be expanded further, and could attract
new customers, provided the heat from TPK will be offered at competitive prices. The City of
Kyjov plans to connect a number of buildings of Kyjov's schools and a small housing estates. In
addition, some residential areas could also be connected with the district heating system,
assuming that houseowner could be convinced about the attractiveness of district heat as
compared to other sources. However, the proposed extensions of the district heating system will
be constrained by limited investment funds as well as by distances of unconnected areas from the
existing network.
- 12 -



Whereas all the heat loads, originally planned to be included, have been connected as planned, the
district heat demand in the town of Kyjov proved to be almost 25% lower than originally
envisaged under the Project. Some new customers were connected, but this will not lead to the
demand assumed originally. Therefore it was proposed to the Board of TPK to launch a campaign
for new district heat consumers (in cooperation with the municipality as far as possible).
Heat pricing is an important consideration in attempting to expand the City's district heating
network. At present, a significant cross subsidy of natural gas prices between industry, on the one
hand, and households and small consumers on the other hand, in favor of the latter, is being
applied by the Czech Government. Under those circumstances, it is difficult for heat, supplied
from cogeneration units, firing natural gas, to compete with prices of heat produced in gas-fired
small local boiler houses. Therefore, unless prices of natural gas have been fully liberalized and
the cross subsidies eliminated, the CHP plant will have to ensure competitive prices of district
heat. The City's heating company has increased prices faster than gas prices which, at present acts
as a deterrent to convincing new customers to connect to the district heating system. A more
astute pricing policy may be called for. Moreover, the expected increase in the gas price for small
consumers of heat may be a good opportunity to advocate the heat supply from TPK's plant (as
opposed to operating small gas boilers).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate oJ retuirn:
4.3   Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return
With regard to the economic analysis of the Project, the appraisal focused on an incremental cost
analysis, comparing a baseline with the proposed Project. The baseline was assumed to consist of
(a) improved heat supply to the City of Kyjov, with the industrial waste heat of the glass factory
to be sent to the City's customers via a central connection from the glass plant through a
modernized distribution network (involving conversion of existing small gas- and coal-fired
boilers; but no co-generation of electricity at that site), and (b) equivalent amounts of electricity,
as to be produced under the proposed Project, but generated in a lignite fired power plant of the
Czech grid.
The incremental cost analysis compared investment and operating cost streams over a period of
20 years (up to 2019) of these two alternatives (baseline and proposed Project), by discounting
them at a rate of 12%. It also calculated the amounts of CO2 generated in the two alternatives and
worked out the incremental cost of one ton of CO2 reduced, as well as of one ton of carbon
equivalent reduced (see also section 4.2.1. above). The results of this analysis, which have been
documented extensively in Annex 4 to the appraisal report, have been updated to take account of
actual economic costs for operations of the Project case.
The updated analysis takes account of actual costs and notably the significantly higher operating
costs (in particular gas costs, but also non-fuel operating costs), until the year 2000, and best
estimates for 2001, with projections until 2019 based on those of the year 2002. The important
benchmarks at project closing include the following:
a) The projected unit abatement cost is US$24.6 per ton of carbon equivalent or almost
- 13-



two-and-a-half times as high as that estimated at appraisal (US$10.9); see financial section 4.4
below highlighting the cost parameters which are responsible for these increases.
b) Per dollar of GEF grant spent on the Project, unit abatement costs are likely to remain within
the cut-off rate of GEF of US$ 10 per ton of carbon equivalent (see again section 4.2.1 above).
The difference between the two above-mentioned estimates (US$24.6 and US$10) is due to the
fact that the amount of the GEF grant at appraisal was fixed to only partly cover the incremental
cost of the project. This was done intentionally as a measure of protecting the GEF against a
possible cost overrun per unit of carbon abatement.
The analysis assumed that the plant will remain in operation until at least 2019. This expectation
is only justified if TPK's competitiveness can be demonstrated. To assess TPK's competitiveness,
a comparison of its cost structure was made with that of a typical existing lignite plant as well as
with a new lignite-fired generation facility. This comparison demonstrated that the existing
off-peak electricity prices in the Czech market are set at a level just enough to cover variable
operating costs for cheap Czech lignite plants, plus a modest allowance for transmission delivery
cost. There is little allowance for recapture of investment costs because the plants are fully
depreciated. In other words, the current baseload ("low") tariff of about US$0.021/kWh is much
lower than any price that could be justified if the investment costs of new generation capacity
were provided for in the tariff.
The existing price structure would thus be improved by a timely increase in the electricity price to
recognize that new plants will be required in the future. Under those circumstances the
comparison shows that TPK would indeed be fully competitive with a new lignite-fired plant at
costs of about US$0.045/kWh. A decision by the Czech Government to this effect would be a
relief for TPK and other independent power producers in the Czech Republic. It would also
facilitate the Governments plans of privatizing CEZ, the dominant public power producer of the
country.
4.4 Financial rate oJfreturm:
On the financial side, the Project, ex post, has deteriorated dramatically. There are a number of
reasons for this. The main reasons are (a) the reduced revenues, and (b) the increased operating
costs. Details about these estimates for years 2001 and 2002, ex-ante and ex-post, are contained
in the table in section 10. Further reasons for the decline in financial performance are the slightly
higher capital costs and the delays in start-up and slower than estimated learning curve in 1999
and 2000.
Revenues of the Project consist of electricity revenues and heat revenues, with proportions,
ex-ante, accounting for about 86% for electricity sales and 14% for heat sales. Electricity
revenues of sales to the regional distributor JME have practically held their own, based on the
off-take contract between JME and TPK, and reflect similar orders of magnitude as projected at
appraisal. However, revenues from sales to VMG have declined significantly as compared to the
original projections. This is due, on the one hand, to smaller than projected sales, and on the other
hand to a significantly lower sales price. The price which VMG pays to TPK is supposed to be
- 14 -



5% below the price of the one which it would have to pay JME, if it purchased its power from
JME. The market price for JME's electricity is low due to overcapacity in the Czech generation
systems as a result of the start-up of the nuclear plant at Temelin, and the Government's
hesitation to close old, depreciated coal-fired plants for reasons of maintaining employment, low
operating costs, and the possibility of exports to neighboring EU Countries. The difference in
electricity revenues, ex-ante and ex-post, is projected to be a shortfall of the order of CZK 23 to
25 million (US$0.45 to US$0.48 million) in years 2001 and 2002, representing about 7% of
originally estimated revenues. If sales to JME were valued at presently prevailing depressed
market prices, another CZK 60 to 65 million (US$ 1.56 to US$1.58 million) would be lost per
year to the company! Heat revenues, ex-post, are also significantly lower due to significantly
lower heat loads. But relatively high heat prices, which may be one reason for the low heat loads,
compensate to some extent. Whereas sufficient heat loads are important for the efficient operation
of the CHP plant, they are less important for the overall revenue.
Operating costs have even deteriorated more dramatically than revenues, comparing between
appraisal and the actual operations to date. Thus, the increased gas consumption (about 8%) and
a higher gas price (about 3%) have combined to increase gas costs alone by CZK 22 million for
2001 and 2002 according to TPK projections. Other energy cost (mainly waste heat purchases
from VMG) have also dramatically increased as compared to the original projections (almost CZK
10 million). Moreover, maintenance costs, materials, services, labor and other costs have also
significantly increased and account for a further cost increase of about CZK 17 million as
compared to original projections. Thus, operating costs other than gas have increased by CZK 27
million for 2001 and 2002, bringing total operating cost increases to about CZK 49 million or
almost 25% of operating costs as estimated at appraisal!
The capital costs have only increased by about 4% which is considered within reasonable limits,
but also contributes to the deterioration of the rate of return.
Last, but not least, the start-up delays and the slower but expected learning curve to achieve full
operational efficiency also contributed to lower results in 1999 and 2000.
However, the big influences on the IRR, in descending order, are the increases in operating costs
and the shortfalls in revenue. As a result, operating profits in 2001 and 2002 are projected to be
only CZK 52 to CZK 54 million as opposed to original projections of CZK 110 and 121 million
respectively, i.e shortfalls of more than 50%! With the projections beyond 2002 this shortfall
increases further.
The resulting ex post IRR for the entire Project is 5.0%, as compared to an IRR ex-ante of
13.8%. Taking account of the GEF grant by reducing investment costs by the equivalent amount
of the grant improves the ex-post IRR to 7.8%, as opposed to 18.4% ex ante. These devastating
results were discussed with TPK which was urged to review its contractual arrangements with
VMG, both for the electricity price of TPK sales to VMG, as well as the waste heat price paid by
TPK to VMG. Moreover, TPK was urged to carefully review the other operating costs as well
and identify scope for their reductions.
- 15-



4.5 Instittitional development impact:
The Project had a significant impact on institutional development. Two new companies were
established for the purposes of implementation of the Project: Teplarna Kyjov (TPK), a private
sector company, to erect and operate CHP Plant, and Teplo Kyjov, a City-owned company with
potential for future privatization, to reconstruct and operate the district heating network. The
establishment of TPK allowed for shareholders with diverging objectives, to reach compromise in
the interest of realizing an attractive Project with significant environmental benefits. In addition,
TPK signed a Shareholder's Agreement that enabled a new foreign strategic investor
(Isar-Amperwerke), to join the company. The project distributed implementation responsibilities
among several involved subjects that required cooperation of all parties. Teplarna Kyjov, Teplo
Kyjov, the City of Kyjov, State Environmental Fund, Ministry of Environment, and
Hypovereinsbank. While TPK and Teplo Kyjov took over the responsibility for the construction
and reconstruction works related to the Project, MOE was the government agency responsible for
supervising and monitoring Project implementation and operation, overseeing financial
management, and coordinating the whole Project. GEF, SEF, Hypovereinsbank and the City of
Kyjov provided grant and loan facilities for Project financing. The Project demonstrated the
possibility for cooperation between a govemment agency, regional and local authorities, and the
private sector. The Project brought also new management skills in the field of project financing,
contracting, and procurement of goods and services. Last but not least, the Project helped
enhance public awareness on environmental protection at regional and govenmment level.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outtside the control of government or implenmentilg agency:
Guidelines of the World Bank regarding to the procurement of goods and services enabled a
transparent, smooth and unproblematic completion of the first phase of the Project. Employment
of foreign currencies by the Project and a favorable exchange rate development helped TPK to
take advantage of the GEF Grant committed in SDR, of the loan facility, and helped to reduce the
foreign exchange risk.
The intemational energy prices which are to a large extent oriented along the presently high oil
prices, have also caused gas prices in the Czech Republic to rise significantly. As long as the
present overcapacity in the power sector in the Czech Republic prevails, there is likely to be a
growing difference between the domestic gas price which is govemed by intemational market
developments, and power prices in the country (see section below).
5.2 Factors generally sutbject to government control:
In general, the positive approach of the govemment agency (MOE) and associated institutions,
including a genuine interest in the Project's realization, ensured its smooth implementation. Strict
adherence to the environmental standards, constraing emissions from the Project, and to
construction permits, issued by the regional authorities, led to the achievement of targeted
parameters by ,-he Project. On the other hand this adherence to norms and standards had an
impact on Project implementation, with extra efforts expended to cope with some minor problems
(e.g. adherence to noise pollution limits, adherence to quality standards for ambient air, etc.).
- 16-



The cross-subsidy on gas prices in favor of small gas consumers and households, and at the
expense of large gas consumers, makes it difficult for TPK and Teplo Kyjov to compete with
small individual gas boilers in the City's heat market. It is hoped that the Government will change
this policy in the near future in the context of energy market deregulation, in line with EU
directives, under the efforts to join the EU. This would help TPK and Teplo Kyjov to become
more attractive and competitive in the Kyjov heat market.
The overcapacity of the power sector is a result of Czech energy sector policies. On the one hand,
the expensive Temelin Nuclear Power Plant Project was pursued by the Government, against
earlier expectations, throughout the implementation period of the Kyjov Project. On the other
hand, old and largely depreciated coal- and lignite fired power plants are being maintained and
operated, as they employ a large number of people, as their marginal cost of production is still low
(largely depreciated!), and as the Czech Republic can export cheap power to the neighboring
countries of the EU. However, at the same time the domestic price of power, controlled by the
Government-owned CEZ company, is very low and would not be maintainable, if new capacity
was required. This has had a negative impact on small independent CHP investments and has even
contributed to shutting recently completed plants down. TPK is spared this fate due to the
contractual arrangements of its long-term power purchase contracts. But it could motivate the
shareholders interested in buying electricity (JME and VMG) to call for renegotiation of their
purchase agreements or even unravel the Project.
But the implications of the Government policy of maintaining very low prices has much wider
implications for the country which plans to privatize its power industry in the near future. As long
as the prices will remain as low as at the present, privatization of the sector would bring very low
offers from potential investors or may not be feasible at all. On the other hand, the surplus
capacity in some EU countries and the projected market liberalization in the EU might put further
downward pressure on power prices, unless capacities in the EU are also shut down.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implementing agency cor7trol:
The implementing agency, TPK, found it difficult to solve the problem satisfactorily regarding the
performance of the gas turbines that showed higher natural gas consumption than that estimated
by the project design. The problem of gas consumption appeared during the trial operation of the
plant and continued along the current run of the equipment. After a number of negotiations with
the general supplier of the equipment, TPK worked out a list of technical improvements that were
carried out to reduce gas consumption. A major problem was that the guaranteed values for gas
consumption of the turbines could not be fully achieved by the turn-key contractor. It was
observed, then, that due to inconsistent conditions in the contracts among TPK, the general turn
key contractor, and his sub-suppliers for the gas turbines, the guaranteed values specifically
relating to the gas consumption were not fully identical.
Inadequate attention was also focussed on the supply contract for the CHP Plant with regard to
the need for spare parts and regular maintenance of the gas- and steam-turbines. When the
troubles with the turbine performance were recognized, the need for regular maintenance was
discussed and a costly maintenance contract was negotiated. This could have been avoided by
including the supply of spare parts and the provision of maintenance in the competitive. bidding for
the turn-key contract.
- 17-



5.4 Costs and finanicing:
Overall costs of the project were US$ 26.04 million compared to US$ 24.9 at appraisal. Thus the
investment cost of Project was 4.4% above the appraisal estimate. These cost increases were
basically concentrated in the ancillary components (other than the CHP Plant). Thus, the waste
heat boilers at the glass factory were more expensive due to the larger scope for the second
boiler. Higher actual cost were also incurred in the expansion of the district heating network, by
adding two heat exchangers; in the installation of an additional heat station at VMG, to supply
hot water instead of steam, the purchase of auxiliary equipment from VMG not estimated by the
project, and surplus costs to solve some technical problems. On the other hand, the turn-key
supplier is likely not to receive the retention payment of CZK 12.6 million (US$0.33 million),
because of the higher than guaranteed gas consumption. This will decrease TPK's investment
costs, but has significantly increased operating costs.
During the implementation of the project no specific problems occurred regarding financing of
goods and services procured from suppliers. Both, the GEF grant funds and the SEF grant funds
were disbursed smoothly, and according to the set terms and conditions. TPK made withdrawals
of a loan facility provided by the Hypovereinsbank in line with the competitively established terms
and conditions (ten commercial banks had made offers for loans; in the end, TPK negotiated with
the two most advantageous banks to further improve its conditions). The City of Kyjov also
made funds from its budget available, in line with the requirements of Project progress. This was
possible because of a very good financial management of the Project and its components,
adhering to the agreed guidelines and procedures, as well as to the established time schedule of
construction and erection activities. Since the funds granted through SEF were not available for
financing the measurements, design, and testing related to the Project component implemented by
Teplo Kyjov, the City of Kyjov provided additional funds from its own budget to settle these
extra costs.
Overall, the capital costs of the total CHP Plant, including components A to C (Plant, Waste heat
Boilers and Buildings), but excluding the DH network, the link to it and the project supervision
and dissemination, amounted to US$ 23.09 million as compared to an estimated amount of US$
22.66 million. Thus, actual costs of the total plant exceeded estimated costs by only 1.9 % (US$
0,43 million). Higher actual costs include installation of a heating station at VMG to supply hot
water instead of steam, additional purchases of auxiliary equipment by TPK, originally property
of VMG not estimated under the project, and surplus costs needed to solve some technical
problems (e.g. washing of waste heat boilers).
Total costs of the district heat network and link were above estimate by 30,2 % (US$ 2.81 million
as opposed to an estimate of US$2.16 million). The City of Kyjov spent in total US$ 0.67 million
compared with estimate US$ 0,52 million on boiler conversions to heat exchanger substations.
The expansion and linkage of the network amounted to US$2.14 million, compared with an
earlier estimate of 1.64 million. Higher costs were due to surplus costs of testing, measurements
and include two heat exchange stations added to the heat network as well as difficulties with the
laying of insulated pipe and related civil works.
- 18 -



6. Sustainability
6. 1 Rationale/for sustain abilit rating:
The plant and DH system were commissioned in October 1999. Subsequent testing and early
operations revealed a number of problems and issues as highlighted in section 4. These technical
problems were largely resolved (see section 4 again).The modifications, improvements and
subsequent testing demonstrated the ability of the plant to operate almost according to the
specified parameters (except for specific gas consumption and with more intense maintenance
than estimated ex ante). Thus, operation of the CHP Plant has entered into a stable, steady state
and TPK is coming close to the full required availability and efficiency of the plant. It is now
important to operate the plant based on existing contracts and taking account of the contractual
pricing formulae which include for the pricing of power sales the price basis of natural gas
including escalation. However, at present, TPK is making a net loss, with cash generation
allowing it to service all interest payments and about two thirds of its debt service. The estimated
cash shortfall during year 2001 is about CZK 12 million (US$0.3 million). It is important,
therefore, to review the schedule of operating costs and to introduce as many savings as possible
to allow for the project to become profitable under present contractual arrangements and to allow
it to service its debt.
As highlighted in section 5.2 above, the gas price for CHP Plants in the Czech Republic is high
reflecting international energy price developments as well as the cross subsidies in favor of small
consumers and households. On the other hand, electricity prices are very low, reflecting deliberate
government policy not to antagonize small consumers, as well as the present overcapacity of
power generation facilities, given the completion of the Temelin nuclear plant. This inverse
"scissor of pricing" (high input costs and low sales prices), which could last for a few years, could
motivate some shareholders of TPK to abandon their contractual obligation: JME, the purchaser
of electricity is obligated under its contract with TPK, to purchase power at certain price levels
(presently on average at about CZK 1681/MWh or US$0.044/kWh) which, due to the inclusion of
gas price escalation formulae, are higher than the market price in the Czech Republic (CZK
1050/MWh or US$0.027/kWh). In the interest of continued CO2 reductions, as well as reduced
local pollution, the plant should continue to operate.
Furthermore, the electricity sales made directly to the glass factory VMG (which sold its shares in
TPK to Isar-Ampere Werke (now Eon of Germany)) are knowingly made at a loss because,
according to the contract, the price of electricity sold to VMG is to be 5% below the grid price
(the price offered by JME). In 2000 the price offered by JME was about CZKI,180/MWh (or
US$0.031/kWh), so TPK was selling it for CZKI,120/MWh (or US$0.029/kWh). The heat
tariffs for VMG are also concessional at CZK209.3/GJ (or US$5.45/GJ), while the other three
buyers of TPK's heat (the town of Kyjov, the Kyjov hospital, and a small commercial customer
Bytos) are paying around CZK 262/GJ (or US$ 6.82/GJ), net of VAT. Thus, VMG is not only
benefitting from higher reliability of power supply, but also very attractive prices for power and
heat which it would not obtain in the open market at this time. While VMG may have
opportunities to shop for different power suppliers under evolving liberalized regulations, TPK
should have negotiation leverage both from a contractual standpoint and from JME's position as
the delivery agent for any power purchased from others. Thus TPK should be able to improve its
- 19-



financial situation by renegotiating its sales conditions with VMG.
On the other hand, JME is suffering an unproportional large "loss" given the opportunity costs it
pays for the TPK power (as opposed to other generators' supplies). Under the current prices
based on the above-mentioned contracts, TPK's operation causes a disproportionately high "loss"
to be bome by JME as it is buying TPK's electricity at a price substantially higher than the
current tariffs for electricity from the Czech power grid. At the same time, all the calculations
provided by TPK show that a downward revision of the electric tariff paid by JME would lead to
a dramatic deterioration of TPK's financial position.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
From GEF's perspective, the main target is to achieve the maximum availability and thus achieve
targeted CO2 reductions. Technically, regular, steady state operations are already occurring. TPK
has taken a number of steps (improved maintenance contract, better coordination of maintenance
activities, better operational controls, round the clock monitoring of operations) to prevent
unproductive downtime of the various components of equipment. TPK is also reviewing its
operational costs, tries most importantly to further reduce specific gas consumption, but also
critically reviews other operating cost items, to help generate an operating profit under present
contractual conditions of purchase of inputs and sales of outputs.
Given the presently extremely low power prices, TPK's shareholders are also reviewing the
situation to continue plant operations at more evenly shared financial burdens. It is expected that
the power prices will recover in the medium term, thereby assuring an improved financial situation
which over the medium tern will bring the return of investments earlier expected by the
shareholders.
It was recommended to TPK's Board of Directors to review the gas cost and power price
situation and to find an equitable solution to the temporary losses which JME is making at this
time and the company's prospects for generating adequate financial returns. Alternative proposal
developed by TPK would need to redistribute the burden of the financial losses more evenly
among the shareholders. This is being considered by TPKs owners presently.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Czech teams of MoE, the City of Kyjov, TPK and its consultants had full support from the
World Bank teams throughout the preparation in technical, financial, economic and environmental
matters important for this Project. GEF grant funds were made available in due time and met
requirements of all eligible expenditures. Good planning was a vital element in the implementation
of the project to meet its time table, as well as all financial and commercial commitments. The
support was also prompt and strong with regard to the selection of a private foreign strategic
partner and a commercial bank to help fund the Project. Financial issues were processed smoothly
and professionally. The performance was considered satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision missions were frequent, intensive and all missions were staffed with technical,
- 20 -



. financial and environmental specialists. The working relationships of the groups involved in the
Project, namely the Bank, the grant recipient, implementing agencies and Czech consultants, were
excellent. Spot checks during supervision missions were sufficient to establish that rules,
regarding GEF eligibility criteria, procurement- and financial reporting guidelines, were being
followed. Bank missions provided useful guidance and recommendations on technical issues, and
institutional strengthening advice to the MoE and the implementing agencies.
The Bank agreed to extend the Project closing date by 9 months, when it became apparent that
the initial technical problems required continued support, and that these problems delayed the
entry of the Project into steady state operations.
The Bank's performance in preparation, appraisal and implementation was highly satisfactory. The
Bank's missions were staffed with professionals well qualified in technical, financial and economic
fields. Above all, the technical assistance extended by the missions contributed in solving technical
problems of the CHP Plant. A financial mission of July 2000 already pointed to the potential
financial problems of the company. A QUAG Review of supervision efforts during a chosen
period of time resulted in a "highly satisfactory" label.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance of the Bank was highly satisfactory. The principal objective of reducing
greenhouse gas emissions was achieved by erecting the CHP Plant and by reconstructing the
district heat network in the City of Kyjov, by commissioning the whole project in due time,
according to the schedule set up in the GEF Grant Agreement. The project began to generate
reductions of CO, emissions by displacing electricity production in lignite-fired power plants and
production of district heat in old gas- and coal-fired local boilers.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Recipient's performance was satisfactory through the whole Project cycle. Performance
during preparation progressively improved thanks to commitment of the MoE and the future
investor. Agreement among the Czech shareholders and the selected strategic shareholder, who
made a firm commitment to provide technical assistance for the Project, contributed to a great
extent to enhance the professionalism of the Czech engineers during the preparation of design of
the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
All main legal covenants were met in a timely fashion, although the project closing date was
extended once by 9 months. The extension was required because of minor technical problems, the
number of proposed measures for improvements, and time required to carry out technical
improvements. The government (MoE) satisfactorily coordinated all activities related to Project
implementation, and regularly met with the Bank's missions to review Project progress. The daily
routine work was carried out through a local consultant hired for the purposes of Project
coordination, monitoring, reporting and financial management.
7.6 lnplementing Agenc.':
The main responsibility for the project implementation was carried by Teplarna Kyjov (TPK), the
- 21 -



owner and implementing agency of the CHP Plant and its future operator. Performance of TPK
continually improved thanks to experience gained during the erection of the facility and after
commissioning of the plant, when a number of technical problems appeared. TPK also
encountered commercial difficulties when an inconsistency between the general contractor and
sub-contractors led to technical problems that resulted in difficulties to achieve expected
performance of gas turbines. However, TPK made best efforts to meet all challenges resulting
from project implementation, and was largely able to meet the Project timetable until
commissioning. It cooperated very well with the Bank's teams, local engineers and suppliers of
equipment to solve the early technical problems.
Given better experience in contracting, TPK might have spotted the inconsistencies between its
contract with the tum-key supplier and the turn-key suppliers subcontract with the gas turbine.
supplier.
The City of Kyjov carried out the project through its implementing agency Teplo Kyjov. The
agency performed well and did not meet any particular problems.
7.7 Overall Borrower per/obrnance:
All Czech implementing agencies and institutions involved in the project performed in a very good
fashion. The performance of both main implementing agencies, TPK and Teplo Kyjov, was
outstanding throughout the whole implementing period. Project implementation and financial
management was efficient and punctual.
8. Lessons Learned
A major lesson of this Project is of institutional nature: The Kyjove Project was considered
interesting by a number of investors and donors for various reasons as follows: enhanced energy
efficiency through use of industrial waste heat, improved local environmental performance,
reduction of CO2 from the operation of the Project, market for the sale of gas, provider of reliable
heat and electricity. The agreement among a group of interested investors whose interests were
diverging, to form a joint venture to realize this Project, made efficient Project preparation and
implementation possible. The interests of the initial key investors were "bundled" and they reached
compromise solutions among each other to realize the interesting Project. It is hoped that during
the temporary "crisis" of extremely low power prices in the Czech market, the concept of the joint
ownership and joint risk-sharing will prevail and come out in favor of continued full operation of
the plant.
All components of the project were implemented according to the Project time table. Important
lessons were leamed along the way, particularly by TPK. First, targets of specific gas
consumption, estimated by the Project and stipulated in the tum-key contract, could not fully be
realized during the trial operation, and TPK had to settle for a higher value because of contractual
inconsistencies. Second, technical problems with the waste heat boiler #51 at the glass factory
postponed the implementation and start-up of the second waste heat boiler #52, until the technical
problems of the first boiler were solved. Lessons learned from boiler #51 were fully incorporated
in #52.
- 22 -



The resulting higher fuel consumption of gas turbines is not critical to the achievement of the
objective to reduce CO2 emissions, but can lead to higher operating costs and therefore reduced
profits than those estimated for the Project.
Technical problems of the waste heat boiler at VMG were not anticipated at the beginning of the
Project. Most problems were due to the technological process of glass production at the glass
factory that was not within TPK's control. Huge amounts of particulate matter sucked from the
glass melting furnace were the most troubling elements because some mechanical parts of the
boiler could not work properly with the contaminated air and the boiler had to be cleaned
frequently. Gradually this problem was solved. However, it might have been solved earlier if the
boiler had been tested properly at the beginning of operation.
The most critical design issue for this type of project is the choice of an optimum electric capacity
to install, considering reliability, production costs, and relationship between the heat and electric
load served. For the maximum efficiency of cogeneration, the electric generation capacity of CHP
plants should be only as large as the available heat load allows. The experience of the Kyjov
Waste Heat Utilization Project has demonstrated two important lessons. While these lessons have
been derived in the context of the Czech Republic, they are relevant to other countries in
transition as well, particularly when electricity prices are being kept low. The first lesson is that it
is difficult for a small independent power producer (IPP) to enter into, and stay within, a
long-term contract with the electric grid company if the production cost of the IPP's electricity is
not sufficiently competitive. Thus, only if the benefits of cogeneration are high enough due to a
sufficiently high heat load, is the operation of such a plant competitive in the liberalizing electricity
market. Secondly, the Kyjov project has demonstrated that the existing off-peak (base- and
intermediate load) electricity prices in the Czech Republic are currently set at a level to cover
variable operating costs for cheap lignite plants, plus a modest allowance for transmission delivery
cost. There is little allowance for recapture of investment costs, because the plants are fully
depreciated. The existing price structure would thus be improved by a timely increase in the
electricity price to recognize that new plants will be required in the future. A decision by the
Government to this effect would be a relief to independent power producers, and might help to
reopen the gas-fired CHP Plant elsewhere in the Czech Republic which was shut down because of
the low power price regime in the country.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Implementation of the Project in Kyjov reflected the objective of the State Environmental Policy
aimed at systematically improving the quality of the environment in the Czech Republic. It thus
contributed towards the solution of global environmental problems. The Country Program, inter
alia, promotes activities to limit health- and environmental hazards, as well as to incorporate
environmental costs into production processes and to begin integrating the principles of
environmental protection into social and economic activities.
In the process of economic transformation the Project contributed to: (i) the ongoing process of
liberalization of the energy sector with respect to power and heat production, sales, pricing and
distribution systems; (ii) the strengthening of the emerging market economy; and (iii) the
- 23 -



restructuring of industrial sectors towards production processes that was less demanding on
energy and natural resources.
The objective of the Project was in line with the Government's commitment to reduce green house
gas emission. Thus, it helped support the process of replacing power generated in obsolete,
depreciated lignite fired power plants. The Project would also reduce emissions that originated
during production of heat in local small boiler houses that had low energy efficiency and high
energy losses.
In the most crucial areas important achievements were obtained. The basic legal and economic
infrastructure was put in place. In 200, the Country started implementation of the program of
privatization of large energy sector entities, including power generation and distribution, as well
as privatization of gas distribution companies. Moreover, price liberalization of fuels and power
was in progress. The erection of the CHP Plant and its auxiliary equipment was completed in time
and almost within the planned budget. The CHP Plant was put into operation and began to
produce power and heat for the public grid and local clients. The Project contributed to the
achievement of higher energy efficiency, heat savings and reduction of operation and maintenance
costs. Global and local reduction of emissions was achieved, therefore.
On the other hand, the results were slightly below expectations due to lower heat and power
production than originally anticipated by the Project. While all the heat loads had been connected
as planned, the district heat demand in the City of Kyjov turned out to be less than originally
envisaged by the Project. In the first and second year of plant operations, the sales of heat were
below targets due to the lower than expected demand. It appeared that customers made efforts to
achieve energy conservation and thus save money. Further, unexpected mild winters, sound
energy efficiency of the installed heat exchangers, and elimination of heat losses (modernization of
the district heating network) contributed to the decreased heat demand in the City of Kyjov.
During the first year of operation the output of electricity was below the output targets, set at the
start of the project, due to lower availability of the CHP plant than estimated .
Minor technical problems in the first period of operation and slightly lower outputs of the CHP
Plant resulted in the shortfall on the original target of C02 reductions which is thus estimated to
be less by 7%. However, this figure places the shortfall well within the uncertainty margins
associated with the twenty year project cycle.
The Bank's performance in all aspects of the Project cycle was excellent.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The Project was implemented through the private company Teplo Kyjov, Ltd. The major
objective of the project was the reconstruction of the district heating system (DHS) in the City of
Kyjov. Under the Project, old boiler houses were reconstructed and replaced with 15 heat
exchangers. The Project started in April 1998 and was completed in September 1999. A month
later, the reconstructed DHS was commissioned and began the supply of heat to the customers in
the city.
- 24 -



Funds were provided through the State Environmental Fund and from the municipal budget of the
City of Kyjov. In the beginning of the heating season in 1999/2000 minor technical problems
occurred. However, all problems were solved satisfactorily within reasonable time. Currently the
DHS supplies heat to all customers in the steady state regime. Cooperation of the City of Kyjov
and of the implementing agency, company Teplo Kyjov with the MoE, SEF, TPK and the World
Bank was highly satisfactory. Excellent cooperation contributed to the smooth implementation
of the Project and helped solving minor technical problems that occurred in the course of
construction and commissioning of the equipment.
Miroslav Tychtl
Teplo Kyjov, Ltd.
2. Teplarna Kyjov, Joint Stock Company
The Intention of the glass manufacturer VMG, to utilize excess heat produced in its glass melting
vans, initiated preparation and development of the Kyjov Project. In January 1997 a joint stock
company, namely Teplarna Kyjov, was founded, in April 1998, a contract was signed with the
turn-key-contractor, in March 1999, the erection of CHP Plant was completed, and in July 1999,
trial runs of the plant were started.
The Testing of equipment showed minor technical problems, related to the reliability and
efficiency of turbines which were slightly lower than called for under the specifications. This
situation resulted in a number of technical improvements of equipment undertaken by TPK and its
contractor to achieve Projected parameters. The CHP Plant is currently operated in a base load
regime and has achieved projected parameters within  acceptable tolerance.  It therefore
contributes to the reduction of C02 emissions. The actual capital costs were almost in line with
the estimated amounts. Currently, economic sustainability of the CHP Plant is slightly diverging
from the original financial model anticipated by the Project. The main reason is that the prices of
fuels and electric energy in the Czech Republic have developed in a different way than was
anticipated by the Project.
Funds to cover the capital costs were provided through the GEF grant, a commercial loan from
HypoVereinsbank, and owners' equity. Implementation of the Project required a smooth and
close cooperation of all parties involved. In spite of the fact that the mutual cooperation was
rather demanding, the very active role of all parties (The World Bank, MoE, the City of Kyjov
and shareholders) during Project development, erection of equipment and testing of equipment
resulted in a successful story. Currently, the CHP Plant has been in commercial run for two years.
Josef Boltnar
Director
Teplarna Kyjov
- 25 -



10. Additional Information
Withdrawal of Funds
GEF TF Grant Withdrawal (US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate                               Actual/Latest Estimate
1998             1999              2000              1998              1999            2000
5.800                               1.043            4.983            0.023
Loan Withdrawal -HVB (US$ million equivalent)
I                 I_I_: :_:__ _ __]
5.158     1      6.142       l                       3.719             7.225
Production of Heat and Electricity
Appraisal Estimate (TPK)           Actual/Latest Estimate
1998       1999       2000        1998       1999       2000
Heat Total (TJ)                                    69,83     199,73                  37,23      110,98
Hospital                                           22,00      55,00                  10,37       29,96
City                                               36,00      86,00                  26,22       59,61
VMG                                                10,00      53,50                              20,61
Bytos                                                                                 0,30        0,80
Others                                              1,83       5,23
Electricity Total (GWh)                            89,00    176,268                  60,28      161,95
VMG                                                30,00     57,485                              57,45
JME                                                59,00    118,783                  60,28      100,85
Station Demand                    ____                                                            3,65
Gas Consumption (SCM million)                                                                  41,302
Average m3/MWh                                                                                   255,0
Estimated and Actual Heat Demand by the City of Kyjov
Total annual heat consumption estimated by Teplo Kyjov:                     86 107 GJ
Actual annual heat consumption in 1999:                                     78 298 GJ
Actual annual heat consumption in 2000:                                     58 573 GJ
- 26 -



Comparison of Income Statement Projections 2001/02
ex-ante (HEX) and ex-post (TPK) 
*4 1                    Orig Hex Projections      TPK Projections       %TPKIOrig.ProJ
2001         2002         2001      2002       2001      2002
revenues    th.CZK        203,031        206,793   202,536   206,754    99.8%    100.0%
IME       price       CZK/MWh          1,604         1,634      1,681     1,716   104.8%    105.0%
p. increase   %                                      6.6%       2.1%
volume        MWh         126,566        126,566   120,500   120,500    95.2%j   95.2%
revenues    th.CZK         77,676         79,617    61,099    61,099    78.7%       76.7%
VMG       price       CZK/MWh          1,351         1,385      1,072     1,072    79.3%      77.4%
p.increase    %                                        -5%        0%
volume        MWh          57,485         57,485    57,000    57,000    99.2%       99.2%
rotal   |revenues   |  th.CZK      280,7061      286,4101  263,6351  267,8531   93.9%I   93.5%
volume                                                   A MWh  184,0511  184,0511   177,500J   177,5001   96.4%1   96.4%
revenues    th.CZK         19,308         19,610    16,9541   17,395      87.8%     88.7%
E        Teplo,s.r.o  price      CZK/GJ           223            227       262        269   117.3%    118.5%
V                   p.increase     %                                      8.3%       2.6%
volume        GI           86,568         86,568    64,785    64,785      74.8%     74.8%
E                   revenues     th.CZK         12,909        13,208|    8,6391    8,8641   66.9%|   67.1%
N        Nemocnice  price        CZK/G]         234.71        240.15|   261.80|       269|  111.5%    111.8%
p.increase     %                                      8.3%      2.6%|
u                   volume         GJ           55,000        55,0001    33,0001   33,0001    60.0%      60.0%
E                  |revenues    nth.CZK             0 O ||                   35       24t 
3ytos     price        CZK/GJ           0.00          0.00    261.70    268.50
S                   p.increase     %                                      8.3%       2.6%
|volume    | G                   l                     91        87 
o revenues   th.CZK         10,592        10,837    10,507    10,778    99.2%        99.5%
Total r.venuesj  th.CZK  j   323,5151    330,0651 299,9711 305,1301   92.7%1   92.4%
costs       th.CZK        180,678       185,909   202,292   206,338    112.0%    111.0%
Gas costs  price       CZKIm3           4.49          4.62       4.63      4.72   103.1%    102.2%
p.increase     %                                      9.3%      2.0%
E     -|volume                   th.m3         40,240         40,240    43,692    43,692   108.6%    108.6%
x
E lectricity           th.CZK    contained in  contained in     2,135      2,242
E        Water                   th.CZK    Waste Heat   Waste Heat        1,800      1,890
N  Waste Heat          th.CZK          3,891         3,8911    8,610       9,041   221.3%    232.3%
D _Purchase energy           th.CZK        184,5691      189,8001  214,837   219,510    116.4%|  115.7%
T   Materialth.CZK   inWasteHeat  inWasteHeat J                           1,3201     1,386 _
U   Maintenance                  th.CZK          7,000         7,000    20,000    21.000   285.7%    300.0%
E   Services                     th.CZK           500            500      4,800j    5,040   960.0%   1008.0%
|Labour Costs             |th.CZK            3 37551       4,131|   -6,9 72      7,321|  185.6%1   177.2%
Other Expenses              th.CZK           6o000o        6,0001     2,600     2,730    43.3%      45.5%
Total other operating costs  th.CZK|        17,255|       17,631,   35,692|   37,477,  206.8%    212.6%
_ Operatnng Profit           th.CZKi      121,691       122,634   49,442   48,1441   40.6%1   39.3%
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Ilct     Mar                        Projected nlnastWPSR                   AuaULaestsEstimate
C02 emission abatement in comparison with (a) 165 thousand tons C02; (b) 2,690  (a) 165 thousand tons C02; (b) 2,666
baseline scenario: (a) cumulative to date: (b) thousand tons C02.             thousand tons C02, assuming that the plant
updated iife-cycle projection over years 1998                                 remains in operation until 2019.
- 2019.
Average cost of C02 emission abatement   (a) not calculated; (b) US$ 7.91 per ton of   (a) US$ 24.6 per ton of carbon; (b) US$ 7.98
against the baseline scenario: (a) not to  carbon.                            per ton of carbon, assuming that the plant
exceed US$ 15 per ton of carbon based on                                      remains in operation until 2019.
full incremental cost of project;
(b) not to exceed US$ 10 per ton of carbon
based on actual size of GEF grant of US$5.8
million.
Improved reliability of heat and power supply  Based on preliminary data for CHP plant    Reliability of the heat and electricity supply
(known by reduced frequency and durabon of performance in 2000, improved reliability  was tangibly improved. Frequency and
outages) to VMG plant and Kyjov residential (relative to the before-the-project situation)   duration of outages at VMG were
consumers;                             could be anticipated by project completion.  substantially reduced with a minimum impact
on glass production facility. Now, in case of
any outage of grid electricity supply VMG can
immediately switch to electdricity supply from
TPK. Reliability of heat supply improved
considerably for both consumers - VMG and
the town of Kyjov.
Energy efficiency gains measured as energy (a) 43%, which is much higher than 30-35%  (a) 42%, which is much higher than 30-35%
inputs per unit of heat and electricity  typical for lignite-fired plant of CEZ grid; (b)  typical for lignite-fired plant of CEZ grid; (b)
(compared with the baseline scenario): (a)  54%; no data available for CHP efficiency of 53%; no data available for CHP efficiency of
Electrical efficiency of CHP plant; (b) Total  baseline plants.               baseline plants.
efficiency of the CHP plant (total heat and
power outputs divided by fuel input).
Output Indicators:
IndicatoriMatrix                    Projected In last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
A. CHP Plant constructed (US$ 20.35 m)   Fulfilled.                           Fulfilled.
B. Heat recovery boilers #51 and #52   Fulfilled.                             Fulfilled.
installed at VMG (US$ 1.56 m)
C. Building for CHP and auxiliary facilities   Fulfilled.                     Fulfilled.
constructed (US$ 0.75 m)
D. The district heating network of Kyjov  Fulfilled.                          Fulfilled.
expanded and modernized (US$ 1.64 m)
E. Heat-only boilers shut down and replaced Fulfilled.                        Fulfilled.
with heat exchangers connected to the
district heating network of the project CHP
plant (US$0.52 m)
F. Supervision of the project and      Fulfilled.                             Fulfilled.
dissemination activities undertaken by the
Ministry of Environment (US$ 0.12 m).
The annual amount of electric power   (a) 57 GWh; (b) 119 GWh.                (a) 57 GWh; (b) 120.5 GWh.
delivered to the users: (a) 57 GWh to glass
factory VMG; (b) 126 GWh to electric grid
company JME.
The annual amount of heat delivered to  (a) 54 TJ; (b) 32 TJ; (c) 67 TJ. Note: These  (a) 50.2 TJ; (b) 33 TJ; (c) 65.7 TJ.
users: (a) 55 TJ to glass factory VMG; (b)  targets were revised from those set at the
55 TJ to hospital; (c) 86.6 TJ to the city of   start of the project due to lower than expected
Kyjov.                                 demand for heat.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
A. CHP Plant (procurement package Kl)                19.79          20.47          103.4
B. Replacement and retrofitting of boilers at VMG)    1.47           2.09          142.2
C. Construction and reconstruction of buildings      0.67            0.53           79.1
D. Modemization and expansion of district heat network  1.56         2.14          137.2
(package K2)
E. Decommissioning of gas-fired boilers and replacement  0.51        0.67          131.4
with heat exchangers
F. Project supervision and dissemination activities  0.12            0.14          116.7
Contingencies
Total Baseline Cost                                 24.12           26.04
Physical Contingencies                              0.75            0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.07            0.00
Total Project Costs             24.94          26.04
Total Financing Required             24.94           26.04
NOTE: The present template does not allow to calculate meaningful actuals as percentage of appraisal
estimates!
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCB         Other'        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00          0.00         0.75         0.75
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     23.55         0.00          0.00         0.52         24.07
(5.70)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (5.70)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.12         0.00         0.12
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0. 10 )     (0.00)       (0.10)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     23.55          0.00         0.12          1.27        24.94
(5.70)       (0.00)        (0.10)        (0.00)       (5.80)
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
:\fExpenditure CatSejgory:;  10          P i   0:Pocurement Method        N.B.F.      TotalCost
1. Works                         0.00            0.00           0.00           2.95          2.95
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         18.20           4.38           0.00           0.00          22.58
(5.95)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.95)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.51           0.00          0.51
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)        (0.09)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         18.20           4.38           0.51           2.95          26.04
(5.95)         (0.00)         (0.09)         (0.00)        (6.04)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
[Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/atest Estimate     I            AprIa1
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.   'Bank   Govt.  CoF.
A. CHP Plant              5.04      0.00       14.75     5.44       0.00      15.03    107.9   0.0   101.9
B. Replacement and        0.00      0.00       1.47      0.00       0.00      2.09      0.0    0.0   142.2
Retrofitting of Boilers
C. Construction and       0.00      0.00       0.67      0.00       0.00       0.53     0.0    0.0   79.1
Reconstruction of
Buildings
D. Modernization and      0.66      0.50       0.40      0.51       0.51       1.12    77.3   102.0  280.0
Expansion of District
Heating
E. City Connection Costs  0.00      0.00       0.51      0.00       0.00       0.67     0.0    0.0   131.4
F. Project Supervision    0.10      0.02       0.00      0.09       0.05       0.00     90.0  250.0   0.0
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies    0.00      0.00       0.75                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies       0.00      0.00       0.07                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Subtotal, Contingencies   0.00      0.00       0.82                                     0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Project Cost        5.80      0.52      18.62      6.04       0.56      19.44    104.1  107.7  104.4
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Please see Sections 4.2.1. on "Achievement of Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Targets" and Section
4.3. on "Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return".
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
06/1996                    2   Environment Specialist
Economist
12/1996                    3   Environment Specialist
Environment Economist
Operations Officer
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1998                  3   Environment Specialist
Environment Economist
Economist
Supervision
02/1999                     1  Environment Specialist            HS            HS
07/1999                     2   Environment Economist             HS           HS
Power Engineer
05/2000                     4   Environment Specialist            S             S
Environment Economist
Economist
Power Engineer
10/2000                     2   Environment Specialist            S             S
Power Engineer
ICR
01/2001                     5    Environment Specialist
Environment Economist
Economist
Power Engineer
Consultant
(b) StaffJ
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              17.5                      145.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                   53.2                      206.4
Supervision                             31.7                      176.9
ICR                                      4.2                       43.2
Total                                  106.6                      571.5
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Environmental                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
LII Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Gender                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
0 Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management                 0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                   0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                        *HS OS  O  U  O HU
E Overall                                            *HS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
F Preparation                                        OHS OS  O u  O HU
F Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                  OHS *S  0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                            * HS OS  0 U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. TPK Business Plan, 1997 and Project Implementation Plan
2. TPK Prospectus to invite a Strategic Investor, 1998
3. Annual Reports for JME, JMP, VMG 1997
4. Letter to TPK's board of September 2001
- 35 -



- 36 -



