Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16425-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
May 20, 1997
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
US$1 = R$1.0 65 (May 8, 1997)
This exchange rate has been used throughout the report unless otherwise indicated
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABDER          - Associacao Brasileira dos Departamentos Estaduais de Estradas de Rodagem
Brazilian Association of State Road Agencies
ADT (vpd)      - Average Daily Traffic (number of vehicles per day)
BNDES          - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Bank for Economic and Social Development
CBR            - California Bearing Ratio
CPMS           - Computerized Project Management System
CVRD           - Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
DER            - Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem
State Road Department
DER-MG         - Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado do Minas Gerais
Minas Gerais State Road Department
DNER           - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Roads Department
EA             - Environmental Assessment
EBM            - Expenditure Budgeting Model
EM             - Environmental Manual
FPE            - Fundo de Participacao dos Estados
State Participation Fund
GEIPOT         - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
GOB            - Government of Brazil
HDM-III        - Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (version III)
ICB            - International Competitive Bidding
ICMS           - Imposto sobre a Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servicios
Value Added Tax
IDB            - Inter-American Development Bank
IERR           - Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI            - International Roughness Index
MT             - Ministerio dos Transportes
Ministry of Transport
NCB            - National Competitive Bidding
NPV            - Net Present Value
OM             - Operational Manual
PIP            - Project Implementation Plan
PMC            - Project Management Consultant
PMU            - Project Management Unit
SIP            - Subproject Implementation Plan
SMU            - Subproject Management Unit
SNV            - Sistema Nacional de Viacao
National Transport System
TOR            - Terms of Reference
VOC            - Vehicle Operating Cost
Vice President:        Shahid Javed Burki
Director:              Gobind T. Nankani
Division Chief         Asif Faiz
Task Manager:          Jacques Cellier



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No
Loan and Project Summary .................................................. (i)
I.  TRANSPORT SECTOR  OVERVIEW  ..................................................1
A.  The Transport Sector in the Economy ..........1........................................
B.   The Transport System ..................................................1
C.   Sector Policy and Institutional Reform ..................................................................3............... 3
D. The Road Transport Industry ...............4
E. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy ...............5
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR .............6
A. Subsector Overview ...............6
B. The Federal Highway Network ...............7
C'. The State Road Networks ..............8
D.  Highway Subsector Financing                                                                       ...............9
E.   The Federal Highway Decentralization Program ........................................                                 10
F.   The Highway Concession Program .........................................11
G.  Highway Budgets, Policies and Programs ........................................                                        12
H.  Highway Planning and Management Capacities ........................................                                    14
I.    Environmental Management ......................................... 15
III. THE PROJECT ......................................... 16
A.   Project Origin, Objectives and Rationale ........................................                                     16
B.   Project Description ........................................ 17
C.   Project Cost and Financing ........................................ 20
D.   Environmental and Economic Assessments ........................................ 21
E.   Project Risks ........................................ 23
IV. PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  PLAN  ........................................ 23
A.   Institutional Responsibilities ........................................ 23
B. Organizational Arrangements ......................................... 24
C.   Project Implementation Action Plan .                  ................................................................... 26
D. Procurement Arrangements                    .................................................. 28
E.   Disbursement, Accounting and Audit Arrangements ..................                      ............................... 29
F.   Monitoring and Supervision Plan ................................................. 29
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION .................................................    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil during April 1996. The mission comprised
Messrs./Ms. Jacques Cellier (Task Manager, LAIIU), Gerard Liautaud (Sr. Highway Engineer, LAIIU), Elizabeth Wang
(Financial Officer, CAPPF), Rodrigo Archondo-Callao (Highway Economist Consultant), Philippe Petit (Highway Concession
Consultant) and Vitor Bellia (Environment Specialist). Messrs. William Dillinger (LAlPS) and William Paterson (EA31N),
Peer Reviewers, provided technical advice. Ms. Joy Obialor and Ms. Mariagracia Schierloh provided administrative support.
Messrs. Asif Faiz, Orville Grimes, and Gobind T. Nankani are respectively the managing Division Chief, Projects Adviser, and
Department Director for the operation.



VI. ANNEXES
1. Bank  Experience with  Highway  Projects in Brazil ............................................. 33
2. Federal Highway  Maintenance  Strategy  and Program  ................................ ....  ..................... 39
3. Federal Highway  Decentralization  Program  ..............................................                                                       48
4. Federal Hi ghway Concession Program ..............................................                                                               51
5. Environmental Management Plan ..............................................                                                                     58
6. Institutional Capacity  Analysis and Technical Assistance ..............................................                                         62
7. Project Economic Analysis                                                                        .............................................. 70
8. Project Implementation Plan:
Table  1.  Project Monitoring  Indicators and Targets ..............................................                                            91
2. Project Cost and Financing ..............................................                                                         92
3.  Allocation  of Loan  Proceeds ..............................................                                                     93
4.  Estimated  Schedule of Disbursements ..............................................                                               93
Chart 1.  Project Implementation  Time Schedule ..............................................                                                  94
9. Project Supervision  and Monitoring  Plan ..............................................                                                         96
10. Supporting Tables and Charts:
Table  1. Transportation  Expenditures by  Mode ..............................................                                                   98
2. Evolution  of National and Transportation  Aggregates .............................................. 99
3. Brazil's Highway Networks ............................................                                                            100
4. Brazil's Federal Highway Network ............................................                                                     101
5. Brazil's State Highway Networks ............................................                                                      102
6. Brazil's Road User Charges ............................................                                                           103
7. DNER's Revenues and Expenditures ............................................ 104
Chart 1. National Roads Department Organization ............................................                                                   105
11. Selected  Documents and  Data Available in the Project File ...                                     ......................................... 106
Map: IBRD No. 27913: Brazil - Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                      Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:           National Roads Department (DNER)
Poverty:                       Not applicable
Amount:                        US$300 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayment in 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's
standard LIBOR-based rate for single currency loans in US dollars
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                See para. 3.11 and Table 2, Annex 8
Net Present Value:             R$3.4 billion
Map:                           IBRD No. 27913: Brazil - Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
Decentralization Project
Project Identification Number:   BR-PA-6532



I



BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHAIBILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
I. TRANSPORT SECTOR OVERVIEW
A. The Transport Sector in the Economy
1.01   The transport sector accounts for a rather low RS$13 billion or 4.3 percent of Brazil's GNP. Road
transport alone accounts for about 3.2 percent. But these figures exclude the very important segments of
own-account transport, services by truck owner-operators, and private automobile use, which are not
accounted for in GNP calculations. Total transportation expenditures amount to about US$90 billion
equivalent and road transport accounts for 85% of that total (Table 1, Annex 10). The transport industry
has grown at rates which have systematically exceeded those of GDP. In the 1970s, when GDP increased
at an average 8.5 percent per year, the transport industry grew at over 11 percent per year; in the 1980s
and early 1990s, when GDP grew at an average 2 percent per year, the transport industry grew at an
average three percent per year (Table 2, Annex 10).
1.02   Public investments in transport, which used to account for about 40 percent of total public capital
formation in the 1960s and the early 1970s and reached 3.3 percent of GNP in 1975, have sharply
decreased to only one percent of GNP since 1981. Road expenditures in particular had to be curtailed
drastically, which resulted in the deterioration of large portions of the networks built in the 1950s and
1960s. The unsatisfactory operational and financial performance of the railways also led to under-
investment, insufficient maintenance, and to the deterioration of railway tracks, motive power and rolling
stock. Because of the size of the transport industry, of its direct impact upon the productive sectors, the
extensive involvement of the government and the fiscal implications, the performance of the transport sector
is critical to the success of the Government's economic stabilization and growth efforts.
B. The Transport System
1.03   Institutions. Through a Constitutional mandate, the Federation is required to operate interstate
and international rail, water, air and (passenger) road transport, including port and airport services, either
directly or through concessions or other forms of authorization. The state expanded its direct control over
the sector in the 1950s- 1970s. It took control of the many privately-owned railroads, merging them into the
federal (RFFSA) and the Sao Paulo state (FEPASA) railways, and it has retained majority shareholder
control, through Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD), of the two other, primarily ore-carrier railroads.
The port facilities and operations, with some exceptions, have been incorporated into the former Portobras
system. The state, through the Portobras system, Petrobras for oil-specialized operations and CVRD for
minerals, and through concessions to private companies, has been controlling the country's entire port
system. In addition, the state owns and operates a substantial portion of the merchant fleet (through
Lloydbras, Petrobras and Docenave) and is present in inland shipping. The Federation also received a
mandate to regulate road freight transport through a law passed in 1984, but this industry has never been
regulated in practice and has generally remained efficient. By contrast, the State's direct control over the
railroads has led to their poor operational and financial performance and to inadequate railroad regulations.



-2 -
1.04   Networks. The South and Southeast regions of Brazil have a dense system of highways and
railways. Substantial portions of the highway networks have deteriorated as a result of very heavy traffic
and inadequate maintenance; they now  require extensive rehabilitation.   Many highways require
strengthening and some also need to be widened. There is scope, however, for the railways to increase their
participation in the transport along the main north-south and export corridors, which could help postpone
some highway capacity investments. The Center-West, frontier region, where an unprecedented expansion
of agriculture has been taking place, has yet very sparse highway and feeder road networks, which need to
be gradually developed. The bulk of the region's exports is transported by truck at a very high cost.
Efficient inter-modal services based on the railways which connect the southeastem part of the region to
Sao Paulo-Santos and to Belo Horizonte-Vitoria and the northem part of the region to Sao Luis, as well as
on some of the rivers which flow from the region's periphery, could reduce these costs. The Northeast
region has a well-developed highway network, with substantially lower traffic levels, and an extensive
railway system which is under-utilized, except for the Carajas corridor. Coastal shipping has some
importance in both intra- and inter-regional trades. The North, with its sparse population and economic
activity, has traditionally relied upon river transport for both passenger and cargo movements in the
Amazon basin; there is scope to increase the efficiency of this form of transport. Air transport has an
increasing role in moving passengers and high-value goods over the long-distances involved.
1.05   Operations. There has been an alarming decline in the performance of the transport system,
overall, during the past two decades. The unstable macroeconomic environment and the efforts made to
control inflation through reducing public expenditures and containing the rates of the public companies, led
to the postponement of needed maintenance activities and capacity investments, to the rapid deterioration of
important portions of the transport system, including trunk highways, railway tracks, motive power and
rolling stock, and port facilities; and to traffic congestion in important corridors. The cost of road transport
on deteriorated and/or congested highways increased despite technological advances in the truck and bus
manufacturing industries. In addition to the poor state of assets and to the lack of integration among the
various transport systems, particularly ports and railroads, Government regulation or direct intervention im
the management of public enterprises, particularly by imposing uniform tariff policies and public service
obligations and reducing their ability to adapt to market and technological changes, led to the inefficient
operations, to poor service quality and to the chronic financial losses that charactenrze public companies.
This situation, together with the unattractive compensation packages offered in the public service, has led
to the present state of institutional degradation of the sector's public entities.
1.06   Investments.  Public investments in the transport sector, through the 1970s, went towards
expanding the transport system into the interior of the country to permit settlement and support new
economic activities, and towards increasing transport capacity on the eastern seaboard in line with the
growth of demand. The largest share went to the construction of the primary highways network. After the
first oil shock, federal priorities went to the railway and port infrastructure of the main corridors, in
support of the development of the steel industry and of mineral and grain exports. In the early 1980s,
public investments in the sector were scaled down drastically; and priorities gradually shifted from new
construction to maintenance and rehabilitation. However, the Government's austerity program and the
containment of the tariffs of revenue-earning entities led to the postponement of needed maintenance and
rehabilitation works and to the deterioration of large portions of essential transport infrastructure sector-
wide. Investments in transport should therefore, in the short term, be focused on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the facilities, and on selected improvements and capacity increases to the existing systems,
which are essential to the recovery of economic growth. They should primarily support the country's
agricultural and industrial growth, and export expansion objectives, and contribute to improving the
efficiency and performance of transport operators.



- 3 -
C. Sector Policy and Institutional Reform
1.07   The management of the transport sector is undergoing significant changes. A number of reforms,
which aim at reducing government expenditures in the sector, at deregulating and privatizing transport
services so as to allow market forces to be the primary determinant of the services provided, and at
decentralizing expenditure and financing responsibilities to lower levels of government, have been recently
undertaken or are about to be implemented. The Concession Law, enacted in February 1995, establishes
the legal framework for private concessions of public services. A proposal for a new Transport Law,
which would redefine the transport system under federal jurisdiction, is currently being considered by the
Congress. The following paragraphs summarize the status of these reforms.
1.08   Highways.  The Constitutional reform of 1988 decentralized fiscal revenues, transferring in
particular all road user charges to States and Municipalities, but kept unchanged the distribution of
responsibilities among the three administrative levels. The reform has therefore further affected the ability
of the Federation to rehabilitate and maintain an extensive federal highway network, and to finance needed
capacity investments. The Government has decided to reduce the size of the road network under federal
jurisdiction to those highways which are clearly of national interest, to transfer the operation and
maintenance of high-traffic highways as well as capacity investments to private concessionaires where
feasible, and to transfer other highways to state jurisdictions. A highway concession program has been
developed and is being implemented, with four concessions already in operation. Agreements have been
reached with the state governments on the conditions of the transfers, including on the funds needed for the
rehabilitation of the transferred highways. A proposal for a new Transport Law, which would reclassify
the transport system under federal jurisdiction, is before the Congress. The Government's highway
decentralization and concession programs are described in Chapter II; the proposed project (Chapter III)
would assist the Government in implementing the programs.
1.09   Railways. The Government is currently restructuring the federal railways (RFFSA) into six
regional operations and concessioning these operations to private operators, with assistance from the Bank
under the Federal Railways Restructuring and Privatization Project (Loan No. 4046-BR). About 17,000
redundant staff had their employment terminated and received separation benefits partly financed under the
Bank loan. Many are being retrained and will receive outplacement assistance. Five concessions have been
successfully auctioned and contracted, and the first ones already show substantial operational
improvements. Similarly, the Government of the State of Sao Paulo decided to restructure and to privatize
Ferrovia Paulista S.A., following a similar model. Finally, the Federal Government decided to privatize
CVRD, including the railways owned and operated by CVRD.
1.10   Ports. The Government closed the National Port Holding Company "Portobras" in 1990 and the
Congress approved a law for a broad deregulation of the port system in February 1993. The Port Law
liberalizes port activities, enabling private terminals to operate for public use and private port operators to
compete with the port administrations. It also decentralizes normative and tariff setting responsibilities to
newly-created local Port Authority Councils, and establishes port labor management entities. Some ports,
including Santos and Rio Grande, have made progress in implementing the reform. The Government has
recently developed an action plan for the full implementation of the reform, including the privatization of
the ports and terminals.
1.11   Multimodal Transport. The rapid evolution and expansion of intra- and inter-regional trade,
fostered by regional trade bloc initiatives and by agricultural expansion and industrial development in the
interior of Brazil, will require important changes in the national and international transport systems.
Freight carriers will be required to provide efficient and comprehensive logistical services to agricultural,



- 4 -
industrial and commercial shippers, and for this purpose they will have to seek innovative multimodal
transport solutions which maximize productivity and quality of service. This in turn will require a much
better integration of the transport systems, particularly railroads and ports, which represent the major
bottlenecks in the present transport system. The restructuring and privatization of railroads and port
terminals, if adequately completed, is expected to resolve the bulk of the intra- and intermodal bottlenecks.
D. The Road Transport Industry
1.12   Road Freight Transport Industry. The country's 15,000 commercial trucking firms together
own about 25 percent of the truck fleet, and truck owner-operators operate another 25 percent of the fleet.
Own-account trucking therefore represents the remaining half of the truck fleet. Trucking firms are highly
specialized as to the type of market served and service provided, including routes and products. Larger
firms concentrate their services on denser routes, while smaller firms appear more frequently in less dense
or more specialized links. Owner-operators generally operate older, medium-size trucks with conventional
open bodies, on medium and long-distance hauls. Own-account trucking is most important in pick-up and
delivery services in the cities, and in the inter-city transport of cargoes which require specialized equipment.
1.13   The trucking industry overall is efficient. Truck rates reveal a competitive position in relation to
rail transport. The share of operational expenses to revenues varies from 50 percent to 70 percent, and
total expenses are about 90 percent of revenues.  There is no evidence of above-normal profits.
Investments, however, have tended to decline in relation to GNP since the mid-1970s. Medium-size trucks
have been substituted for smaller trucks and pick-ups in urban services, and for heavier trucks in inter-city
services. The number of owner-operators has been decreasing gradually since the 1970s and their fleet is
rapidly aging.
1.14   The trucking industry is largely unregulated. The role of the Government has essentially been to
provide and maintain the road infrastructure. The Government influenced operations only indirectly
through pricing and taxation of inputs, and license fees. In 1983 a law was passed authonrzing the
Government to regulate the industry, and some important restrictions were introduced. But insufficient
political support and means of enforcing legislation have made the impact of these restrictions negligible.
In 1990, the Government revoked all these restrictions.
1.15   Road Passenger Transport Industry. Passenger transportation in Brazil is considered to be a
public service. Entry into the sector is regulated by government through licenses or concessions. Federal,
State, and municipal governments set rates, routes, frequencies, and safety and quality standards in
practically all market segments. There are a few publicly-owned and operated firms in some of the largest
cities. Private enterprises, however, are predominant in number and hold the largest share of the market.
The majority of these firms are small to medium in size, and controlled by one entrepreneur or by a family
group. In the interstate segment and in dense inter-municipal connections, however, there are a few firms
providing services in complex networks, operating fleets of more than a thousand buses. In the urban
segment, large firms are rare; they usually serve a strictly defined geographic zone, operating a fleet of up
to two or three hundred buses from a single garage.



- 5 -
E. Bank Sector Experience and Strategy
1.16   The Bank has made 31 loans in the transport sector since the early 1960s: 15 for highways and
feeder roads, six for railways, two for ports, and eight for urban transportation, in addition to financing
rural roads under a number of agriculture projects. Until the mid-1970s, the projects concentrated on the
expansion of the trunk highway network and on the improvement of the railway and mass transit systems.
In subsequent years, emphasis gradually shifted to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the interstate and
trunk highway network, to the planning and implementation on a decentralized basis of feeder roads
programs, to the rehabilitation of important railway corridors, and to the improvement of public bus
transport and traffic management in the major cities. More recently, the Bank has been supporting the
rehabilitation and decentralization of urban train systems with four loans, highway rehabilitation,
maintenance and decentralization with one loan to the Federation and five loans to states, and the
restructuring and privatization of the federal railways with a recently approved loan.
1.17   The Bank's involvement in the transport sector has been successful.  The projects' physical
objectives have generally been met although the more recent difficult economic conditions and related
funding problems have sometimes caused delays. Progress has been made on policy reforms and
institutional strengthening though it has taken more time than expected, due to the size and complexity of
the sector, the large number of government agencies and public enterprises involved, and the difficulty of
reaching the needed consensus for policy reforms. Under the recently-completed Highway Management
and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR), the Federal Government, in consultation with the state
governments, developed a broad reform and decentralization of the highway administration. The ongoing
State Highway Management Projects have already achieved substantial progress in re-orienting the
participating states' highway programs to ensure appropriate priority for maintenance, and in strengthening
the planning and maintenance management capabilities of the DERs.
1.18   The assistance of the Bank to the transport sector of Brazil will remain in support of broader
country objectives, particularly: (a) stabilization and consequent need to contain public expenditures,
increase revenue mobilization and to improve resource utilization; (b) economic growth, ensuring efficient
and reliable infrastructure services to targeted growth sectors of the economy; (c) redefinition of the role of
the state, strengthening its regulatory functions, withdrawing from operations and promoting private sector
participation in infrastructure; (d) administrative decentralization; and (e) environmental management.
1.19   Emphasis will be upon the formulation and effective implementation of appropriate transport
policy and institutional reforms including: (a) restructuring and privatization of railways and ports; (b) re-
design of sector regulations, establishment of appropriate regulatory agencies, and effective implementation
of regulatory reform, which, together with efficient pricing mechanisms and privatization measures, aim at
restoring the role of market forces in the sector; (c) institutional reform, including effective decentralization
of government responsibilities, seeking an appropriate balance between fiscal revenues and responsibilities,
strengthening the normative and monitoring functions at the center, and the planning, management and
environmental control capabilities of the decentralized entities; (d) privatization of operation and
maintenance services through concessions and management contracts; and (e) public investment
programming and private sector investment promotion based on appropriate economic, environmental and
project finance analyses, aiming in particular at facilitating intra- and inter-regional trade flows.



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Subsector Overview
2.01   Brazil's road network has a total length of about
1.7 million km.  The network is classified into three   Table 2.1: Brazil's Road Networks (Thousand Kn.)
administrative levels: (a) a federal network, currently  Jurisdiction    Paved  Unpaved    Total
about 67,500 km, which is under federal jurisdiction   Federal      52         15        67
(section B); (b) state networks, totaling about 200,000
kmn, which are under the jurisdictions of the 26 states,  State     85        114        199
two federal territories and the Federal District (section   Municipal  15     1,376     1,391
C); and (c) municipal networks extending over some 1.4  Total       152       1,505     1,657
million km, which fall under the jurisdictions of over
4,000 Municipalities (Table 3, Annex 10).
2.02   The financing of the highway subsector underwent substantial changes over the last decade. Road
expenditures used to be funded mainly through revenues from road user taxes, which were shared between
the three levels of government and earmarked for that purpose. In the 1980s, however, tax earmarking was
gradually discontinued. Also, the 1988 constitutional and fiscal reforms have transferred the bulk of road
user tax revenues to the states and municipalities, but the distribution of road expenditure responsibilities
remained unchanged (section D). The reform has affected the ability of the Federation to rehabilitate and
maintain an extensive federal highway network and to finance needed capacity investments. In order to
correct the imbalance between revenue and expenditure responsibilities, the Government has decided to: (a)
decentralize responsibilities for highways which are not clearly of national interest to state jurisdictions
(section E); (b) transfer responsibilities for operation and maintenance of high-traffic highways and, where
feasible, new capacity investments to private concessionaires who would recover costs through tolls
(section F); and (c) implement appropriate policies and mechanisms to ensure adequate financing for public
road expenditures (section D).
2.03   Highway administration responsibilities are shared between the National Roads Department
(DNER), the 27 state road departments (DERs), and the 4,000 or so municipalities. DNER and many of
the DERs developed into large organizations to administer the extensive construction programs of the
previous decades. There are still substantial needs for building new roads, in particular in the Center-West
Region, and for capacity investments in the South and Southeast regions. However, since large portions of
the networks are now reaching a critical age, highway maintenance has or should become the main activity
of most agencies. Therefore, the agencies have to make important institutional adjustments, in particular to
develop appropriate road maintenance planning and management systems, to rely more systematically on
the more efficient private contractor industry rather than force account for their routine maintenance
activities, to develop and supervise highway concessions, and to strengthen environmental management.
DNER and some DERs have already undertaken such reforms under ongoing Bank-financed projects. But
there are significant technological and institutional gaps among the various agencies (sections G & H).



-7 -
B. The Federal Highway Network
2.04   Brazil's federal highway network has a total                                    ---
length of approximately 67,500 centerline km, of which          Fig 2.1 Paving Works
52,500 km (or 78%) are paved and about 15,000 km (or   E 60,000
22%) are unpaved. It represents a total asset of nearly  Xd 50.000
US$12 billion equivalent. It carries most of the country's  f  40,000
long distance traffic.  Road users annually spend an   s  30,000
amount equivalent to almost twice its replacement value      20,000-
for operating their vehicles on this network. About 90%  X    10:-0
of the paved network consists of flexible structures with   E
granular base-course overlaid either by asphaltic concrete  0 0
1960   1970   1980  1990   2000
carpets or by double-surface dressings in the proportion                 Year
of 74% to 26%. Rigid or cement-concrete pavements
represent less than 1% of the paved network. Most paving works occurred between 1955 and 1985 at a
rate averaging 1500 km per year (Fig 2.1). Between 1985 and 1995, about 5000 km only were paved. The
network is mostly unpaved in the northern and northeastern regions, particularly in the states of Para,
Amazonia and Roraima. In the other regions, the federal network is fairly evenly distributed by surface
type (Table 4, Annex 10).
2.05   Traffic volumes on the paved network cover a    Fig 2.2 Traffic Distribution on the Federal
wide range, from less than 1,000 vehicles up to 20,000            Network (1986)
to 40,000 vehicles per day on the most heavily trafficked  16000
dual carriageway sections (Fig 2.2). Average annual    14000 t
daily traffic volumes on two-lane rural highways    1000 
generally range between 1,000 and 5,000 vehicles per  8000
day, with the highest densities occurring in the southern  6000  sJ
states.  Over the last 10 years, the average traffic '       -
2000 
volume has increased at about 3.0% per year; the mean   o            *              .  3.-
daily traffic rose steadily from about 1600 vehicles per    o        6 g  O    o, 6 o    : °°
day in 1985 to about 2,100 vehicles per day currently.      e
On  the  unpaved  network, traffic  volumes  are                 Average Daily Traffic  A
considerably lower and seldom exceed 1,000 vehicles
per day. About one third of the network (5,000 km), however, would be eligible for upgrading and paving
as it presently carries more than 250 vehicles per day. The typical traffic composition on the federal
network is 51% light vehicles and 49% commercial vehicles. Axle-load measurements carried out in 1994
on a representative sample of the network indicate that at least 10% of the trucks are overloaded, with
single axle weight exceeding the 10-ton maximum legal limit, typically ranging between 11 tons and 15
tons. However, an economic analysis of overloading confirmed by world-wide experience shows that
economic gains from overloading generally exceed economic maintenance costs (Annex 7, paras. 35-39).
2.06   For many years, particularly between 1975 and 1990, the maintenance condition of the paved
network remained poor as the funds made available to DNER only allowed to start addressing the severe
maintenance backlog accumulated during the previous two decades. The proportion of the network in poor
condition remained persistently in the vicinity of 30% (Fig. 2.4). Between 1978 and 1996 some 27,000 km
have been resurfaced or strengthened at a total present cost of about US$6.5 billion (Fig. 2.3). As a
consequence, the condition has improved and the proportion of the network length in poor condition (as
measured by a roughness index, IRI, higher than five) fell to about 20% in 1992 and to about 11% in early
1996 (Table 2.2 and Fig 2.4). The proportion of weak pavements with average deflection values higher



- 8 -
than 0.5 mm to 0.6 mm (i.e., with modified structural number less than 4) was also in the order of 10% in
early 1996, as compared to about 50% between 1987 and 1990.
Table 2.2 Federal Network Condition (Paved)       Fig 2.3 Length of Network Rehabilitated and
Resources Spent
Network Condition %  Achievements (Cumul.)      Km Rehab                           US$M Spent
Year   Good   Fair  Poor  Km Rehab   USSM Spent
1979   24     59    17       3,206        854             5007 ,000
1984   30     42    28       7,703      2,321            40,000                                 7,000
1986   39     36    25      12,931      3,029                                     Km            6,000
1989   37     34    29      19,272      4,323             30,000    USM                        - 5,000
1992   33     45    22      23,135      5,316                                                   4,000
1996   43     46    11      28,318      6,533             20,000                                3000
1998   50     43     7      31,568      6,852                                                   2,000
1999   54     42     4      34,818      7,191             10,000                                1,000
2000   57     40     3      38,468       7,549                0   -1                            ,
2001   58     40     2      42,118       7,907                  0 Co         N              _
I- w co o o 0 0CD C  0  0
Good ]RI <3, Fair 3<IRI<5, Poor IRI>5                                                    N _ 0_
Values in italic are projections                                             Year
Fig 2.4 Evolution of Maintenance Condition                       Fig 2.5 Evolution of Deflection
100%                                                  E
E-
80% -                                   u~~~~~~~~~~ 0.9 V:
60%                                                  O   0.4
0               c
0   0.
0g 40%/ 
u   0.6
20%                                                      o.                                        I
0% -                                                ;   0.4-----±          ,       .            -
1-COCOCOCoCoCoCoOC                     ~~~~~~~~1975   1990   1985   1990   1996 2000
Co Co Co C Co Co Co Co 0 0
_  _          _   _   _   _  _  _   N  N                             Year
Year
C. The State Road Networks
2.07    The road networks which are under the jurisdictions of the states of the Federation have a total
length of approximately 200,000 km, of which 85,000 km (or 43%) are paved, and about 115,000 km (or
57%) are gravel or earth roads. These networks include "transitory" roads (about 25,000 km of which
14,000 km are paved), which were considered eligible to become federal (Table 5, Annex 10). The length
of the state road networks is about only three times the length of the federal highway network in every state,
with the exception of the northern region where the density of state roads is extremely low (0.3 km per 100
sq. km) because of the environmental conditions and low population in Amazonia. Many highway sections
which are not of national but of regional or local interest have been built in the past by the Federal
Government and have remained under federal jurisdiction. The decentralization component of the project
would help the Government to transfer these federal highways to the states (paras. 3.05-3.06).
2.08    Traffic on the state roads is generally smaller than on federal highways. It varies widely across
states, reflecting sharp differences between levels of income and development. For example, on the paved
network, average daily traffic (ADT) ranges from 500 to 5,000 vehicles per day in the southeastern region
and from 50 to 500 vehicle per day in the northern region (Table 2.3 hereafter). On the unpaved network,



-9-
the ADT is generally below 100 vehicles per
day in the northern part of the country, but  Table 2.3 Traffie volumes on the paved state network (1992-1994)
may reach or exceed 200 vehicles per day in   Region           Normal ranee of ADT   Mean ADT value
the most developed southern states. As is the   North & North East  50-500             200
case  for  the  federal  network,  traffic
. .   .       .            ~~~~~~~Center West      200-1500           600
composition on state highways is generally
evenly shared between light and commercial  South                  400-2,500          1000
vehicles. Overloading above the maximum    South East (Sao Paulo)  500-5000           2000
legal single axle load of 10 tons is also
frequent.
2.09   With the exception of the most heavily trafficked roads in the southern states, where pavement
structure and geometry are often similar to the federal highway standards (relatively thick asphalt concrete
wearing courses), the structural capacity of the state roads has been designed in accordance with the low
traffic volumes. Pavements are of the flexible type, consisting of naturally-occurring gravel base-course
covered with surface designs or thin bituminous mixtures (3 to 4 cm of asphaltic concrete or sand-asphalt
carpets) with structural numbers generally below 4.
2.10    Comprehensive and accurate information on the maintenance condition for the entire state road
networks is not available. However, a survey carried out in 1995 has provided data from an array of 14
states which covers the five regions of the country. Overall, the surface condition of the state networks is
somewhat worse than the present condition of the federal network. About 18% of the length of the paved
network is now in critical or poor condition. In addition, nearly 50% is more than 10 years old, thus
approaching the end of its service life. Therefore, efficient rehabilitation and resurfacing programs are now
urgently required on the state networks, in order to prevent the proportion of roads in poor condition from
reaching the level observed on the federal network throughout the 1980's. The ongoing Bank-financed
state highway management projects are addressing this issue in six states.
D. Highway Subsector Financing
2.11   Road User Charges. The system of road user taxes underwent substantial changes with the
constitutional and fiscal reforms of 1988. The federal level lost its power to impose taxes on petroleum and
alcohol products and on motor-vehicle ownership, retaining only a petroleum import tax (IIP). The states
gained from the inclusion of petroleum and alcohol products and of inter-state and inter-municipal transport
services in the base of the value added tax (ICMS) and the right to tax motor-vehicle ownership. The
municipal level increased its participation in revenues from the ICMS (from 20% to 25%) and from the
motor-vehicle ownership tax (IPVA, from 40% to 50%); and they gained authority to impose a tax on sales
of gasoline and alcohol (IWC). A summary of current charges is shown in Table 6, Annex 10.
2.12   The ICMS imposed on petroleum and alcohol products has resulted in a net increase in tax
revenues and in an improved structure of road user taxes, as compared to the previous tax, which was
levied at a reduced rate on diesel oil and from which alcohol was exempted. But the distribution of
revenues among the three administrative levels has been adversely affected, and is no longer consistent with
the distribution of responsibilities. States and municipalities now recover the total costs of operation,
maintenance and rehabilitation of their road networks, as well as a substantial portion of their road
upgrading and construction expenditures (Table 6, Annex 10). Some state and municipal governments, in
particular in the south and the southeast regions, where road traffic is higher, recover more than their total
road expenditures. On the other hand, the Federation has lost all fiscal revenues from road users, with the



- 10-
exception of the portion of the petroleum import tax revenues paid by road users. A policy for road cost-
recovery was developed under the Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR).
The Federal Government's decentralization and concession programs are aimed at correcting this imbalance
between highway expenditures and revenues at the federal and state levels (see sections E & F).
2.13   The prices of motor-vehicle fuels at the pump, in the first quarter of 1997, were about US$0.79
and US$0.44 equivalent per liter of gasoline (which includes up to 20% of ethanol) and of diesel-oil
respectively. These prices have been consistently maintained well above international prices, including the
necessary adjustments for taxes, distribution costs and retailers' margins.
2.14   Road expenditures used to be funded mainly through revenues from road user taxes, which were
shared between the three levels of government and earmarked for that purpose. In the early 1980s,
however, tax earmarking was gradually discontinued with a view to restoring central control over public
expenditures. The road agencies have consequently seen their resources erode drastically since general
budget allocations did not make up for the loss of earmarked funds. Their total reliance upon the less
predictable transfers from general revenue has badly affected their construction and maintenance programs.
Federal and state road expenditures are now funded from general revenue. The project would assist DNER
and DERs in: (a) concessioning high-traffic highways to ensure reliable funding from road users (para.
3.07); and (b) preparing road programs based on sound technical and economic prionty criteria, and to
ensure adequate funding for their rehabilitation and maintenance programs (para. 3.09).
E. The Federal Highway Decentralization Program
2.15   In order to correct the imbalance between highway revenue and expenditure responsibilities at the
federal and state levels, the Federal Government has decided to reclassify the highway network, only
maintaining under federal jurisdiction the main inter-regional and interstate highways of national interest,
and transferring to state jurisdictions highways which are predominantly of local interest. The Government
has defined the highways of national interest to remain under federal jurisdictions as those which:
(a) connect the states' capitals; (b) link with other major modes of transport to provide inter-regional
connections; (d) promote international connections; and (d) ensure or fulfill national defense or safety
purposes. The federal and the state administrations have completed the negotiations regarding the proposed
reclassification. The resulting highway network which would remain under federal jurisdiction would
comprise about 50,000 km, of which 40,000 km are paved and 10,000 km are unpaved highways,
essentially located in Amazonia. The other highways, which would be transferred to 18 state jurisdictions,
represent some 17,500 km, of which 12,500 km are paved and 5,000 km are unpaved (Annex 3, Table 1).
Draft legislation (Sistema Nacional de Via,do) is being reviewed by the Congress in order to formalize the
proposed reclassification and decentralization. The decentralization program is described in Annex 3.
2.16   Three states (Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana) would assume over 50 percent of the total
length of the highways to be transferred (Table 1, Annex 3). The transfers would represent an increase of
about 25 percent of current network responsibilities for Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, and 13
percent for Parana. In order to alleviate the impact of such transfers on the states' finances, the state
governments have prepared and undertaken plans to concession a significant portion of the highways to be
transferred, together with highways which will remain under federal jurisdiction and state highways
(Section F). The Federal Goverment has recently delegated these highways to the states in order to enable
them to invite bids for concessions. In the other states, the increases of the states' network responsibilities
remain below 15 percent and/or represent a small length (Table 1, Annex 3).



- I1 -
2.17   The Federal and the state governments have agreed, in order to minimize the impact of the transfers
on the states' expenditure responsibilities, that highways would be transferred in good condition or that the
Federal Government would provide the resources necessary to rehabilitate those in poor condition. The
Ministry of Transport has negotiated highway decentralization agreements with the 18 participating states
in order to specify the highway sections to be transferred, and the respective responsibilities of the Federal
and state governments for the execution and financing of the rehabilitation works and for operation and
maintenance until the above-mentioned legislation is passed by the Congress. Decentralization agreements
have already been signed with the states of Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and Bahia. DNER
has negotiated and would enter into delegation agreements with the DERs in the seven states of Minas
Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro, Goias and Ceara, in order to delegate the
execution of the rehabilitation works within agreed technical and financial parameters. These seven states
were selected on the basis of the size of the rehabilitation program in the state and the capacity of the DER
to implement it. The proposed project would assist the federal and the state governments in effectively
implementing such agreements (paras. 3.05 and 3.06).
F. The Highway Concession Program
2.18   In February 1995, the Congress passed a revised Concession Law which allows the Government to
transfer highways, as well as other public facilities and services, to private concessionaires. In September
1996, the Congress passed another law (the Delegation Law) to authorize the Federal Government to
delegate federal highways and other public infrastructure facilities to states and municipalities for their
subsequent concessioning. On the basis of these laws, the Federal Government and some state governments
have started developing and implementing highway concession programs, with a view to increasing road
cost recovery and to improving highway management. Private concessionaires would operate, rehabilitate
and maintain the highways, and, in some cases, carry out and finance investments, and would recover these
costs from road users through tolls. The governments or highway agencies remain responsible for
identifying candidate highways, defining initial works and maintenance standards, calling for bids and
evaluating proposals from prequalified investors, as well as for supervising the concession contracts.
2.19   DNER has prepared a concession program which would consist of transferring high-traffic federal
highways totaling about 10,000 km to private operators over the next four years. However, a number of
states, including Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais have also prepared highway
concessions programs which would include both federal and state highways. The Ministry of Transport, in
line with the Government's decentralization objective and on the basis of the recent Delegation Law, has
delegated federal highway sections totaling about 5,000 km to the first three states for concessioning.
Negotiations are underway with the state of Minas Gerais for further delegations. DNER will be
responsible for concessioning the remaining highway sections included in the program, and for monitoring
the concessioning of the delegated highways (Annex 4).
2.20   DNER has completed a first phase of the program, which consisted of concessioning five highway
sections totaling about 850 km, including the Niteroi Bridge, the Dutra (Rio de Janeiro - Sao Paulo)
highway, the Porto-Alegre-Entrada Guaiba highway, the Alem Paraiba-Teresopolis highway, and the Juiz
de Fora-Petropolis-Rio de Janeiro highway, which had already been tolled in the past. The total
investments required on these five sections are estimated at about US$1.4 billion equivalent over the
concession period (Annex 4). This first phase of the program suffered delays due to litigation by
unsuccessful bidders and to the unavailability of long-term private debt finance in Brazil, but the
concessions are now in operation. Since concessionaires have been unable to secure private debt financing,
except for a relatively small IFC "B" loan currently being finalized for the Dutra highway, the National



- 12 -
Bank for Social and Economic Development (BNDES) had to provide most of the necessary debt financing.
Also for this reason, the Government decided to dualize two important highways (Belo Horizonte - Sao
Paulo and Sao Paulo - Curitiba - Florianopolis) with public funds and borrowings from the IDB, for
subsequent concessioning to private operators.
2.21   The experience developed under the first phase is being incorporated into the subsequent phases of
the program, including with regard to the sharing of various risks. In particular, improved mechanisms
have been developed and guarantees would be offered for toll adjustments with inflation, servicing of
foreign debts, repatriation of dividends, and non-judicial resolution of disputes. DNER is also preparing
for a broader dissemination of the program, with a view to attracting interest from international investors
and financiers, and to increasing competition. The Government has also shown interest in the Bank's
guarantee program, and it was agreed that, at the request of the Government, the Bank would assess the
feasibility of partial risk guarantees on loans to concessionaires for specific highway concessions.
2.22   In order to implement the highway concession program and to supervise the highway concessions,
DNER has recently established a Concession Department, headed by a Director who reports directly to the
Director-General (Chart 1, Annex 10). The department is responsible for all activities related to highway
concessions, including planning, studies, development, procurement and supervision. The supervision of
the concession contracts would be delegated to DNER's relevant districts. The proposed project would
include technical assistance and staff training to help organize and strengthen the new Concession
Department and establish adequate concession supervision capabilities in the relevant DNER districts in
order to implement the concession program efficiently (para. 3.08 and Annex 4).
G. Highway Budgets, Policies and Programs
2.23    With the elimination of the road fund and the fiscal reform, DNER's annual budgets decreased
sharply during the 1980s. Expressed in 1996 dollar value, its annual resources fell from about US$3.5
billion in 1980 to about US$1.5 billion in 1990. Over the last five years, they ranged between US$850
million and US$1.7 billion, averaging about US$1.2 billion (Table 7, Annex 10). Of this total annual
allocation, about US$400 million are spent on wages and other current expenditures, and US$160 million
on debt service. During the 1980s, expenditures on new construction and capacity investments were
drastically reduced from US$720 million in 1980 to US$290 million in 1990, and to about US$150 million
in 1992-96, but have more recently increased to a level of about US$300 million per year, with the IDB-
financed dualization works. During the 1980s, the average annual expenditure incurred for rehabilitation
only (in 1996 dollar value) was in the order US$350 million representing about 36% of total road
expenditures, and was reduced to about US$315 million over the last six years still representing about 62%
of total road expenditures. Resource allocation for routine maintenance averaged about US$300 million
per year between 1978 and 1985 representing 22% of total road expenditure and then fell to about US$100
million over the last 10 years with a particularly bad period between 1989 and 1992 when they were
drastically reduced to record low values between US$30 and 80 million per year (1996 dollar value). On
average, over the years, routine maintenance has represented about 18% of total road expenditure.



- 13 -
2.24   DNER analyzed alternative network rehabilitation    Expenditures in New Const & Paving
and maintenance policies under budget constraints using the
HDM-III and EBM  models. The analysis indicates that   " 600
annual rehabilitation budgets of less than US$200 million   ' 500
would lead to the further deterioration of the current federal   = 400-
network, bringing the proportion in poor condition to about  300 -
30% , thus validating the historical evidence mentioned in  e5 200
para. 2.06 (Annexes 2 and 7). The optimum rehabilitation    a-
and maintenance policies, assuming no decentralization or   , 100
concessions, would require annual budgets of about           0            1        1
US$300-350  million  for  rehabilitation  and  periodic       1975  1980  19Yar 1990  1995  2000
maintenance and about US$100 million for routine
maintenance over the next four years (Annex 2). Such
policies would maximize economic benefits and keep the             DNER Annual Resources
proportion of pavements in poor condition to below 5%.   2 4,000
The optimum policies for enhancing the capacity and level   m 3,500
of service of high-traffic highways would require about        3,000
US$500 million over the next five years, excluding the   _ 2,500
a~2,000
network intended for concessions.                        > 1500
1,000
2.25   In line with its current efforts to contain public   z   500 -
expenditures, the Federal Government has decided to select          .
a  policy  which  would  limit  annual  budgets  for           1975  1980  1985  1990  1995 2000
rehabilitation, maintenance and operational improvements
to about US$350 million. Compared to the optimum policy
which calls for total rehabilitation expenditures of about      Expenditures in Rehabilitation
US$1.6 billion over four years, the selected policy requires   E
total rehabilitation expenditures of US$900 million over   -  500
four to five years. The Net Present Value (NPV) of the   O  400
selected program is still equal to 90% of the NPV of the   T
optimum program. The selected strategy will effectively   @ 300
preserve the federal highway network, including the         200
highways to be transferred to the states. It will reduce the  1
proportion of pavements in poor condition to less than 2%   In
over the next five years. The selected policies are described  0     I-  1 
1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005
in Annex 2, together with their expected impacts.                          Year
2.26   The DERs' annual budgets have also decreased    Expenditures in Routine Maintenance
during the 1980s, with the elimination of the road fund, to
an aggregate amount of about US$1.0 billion in 1989. In    E 300
the 1990s, after the fiscal reform which transferred road    , 250 --
user charges to states and municipalities, they gradually    O 200
increased to the level of about US$1.5 billion in 1995.     1
Many state governments, especially in regions in which the
highway networks are less developed, have continued to      1
give priority to new construction or paving projects, at the  5-  -
expense of maintenance or rehabilitation  of existing    X o 0_
highways. Portions of these networks are now entering into    1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005
a process of rapid deterioration. However, a number of                    Year



- 14 -
state governments are already giving more attention to the maintenance of the state highway networks, and
are establishing effective maintenance planning and management systems under Bank-financed state
highway management projects.
H. Highway Planning and Management Capacities
2.27   DNER's organization still reflects its past objective of expanding the federal highway network. Its
chronic funding problems have gradually weakened its capacity to plan and manage an extensive highway
network effectively. As in most other Government agencies, the lack of clear goals and of management
autonomy, and continuity, as well as inadequate staff compensation, management and development
policies, have resulted in low staff motivation and accountability, and in inadequate performance. The
proposed decentralization and concession programs are expected to reduce DNER's operational
responsibilities, but DNER will continue to be responsible for the management of a substantial federal
network, and will need a capacity to develop and supervise of highway concessions. Under the Highway
Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR), the Ministry of Transport and DNER have
initiated actions to reorganize the agency. The Concession Department was established. Also, DNER's
Administrative Council was recently reformed, with representatives from the Ministries of Planning,
Finance and Transport replacing DNER Department Directors, and with a clear mandate to reorganize
DNER in line with its reduced operational responsibilities resulting from decentralization, concessions, and
maintenance management contracts. The proposed project would provide technical assistance and staff
training to help DNER prepare a strategic plan and carry out its reorganization and staff development
program (para. 3.1 0).
2.28   DNER's Planning Division is responsible for expenditure planning and progranmming on the federal
highway network. With technical assistance and training of staff financed under the recently-completed
Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR), the division reactivated DNER's
pavement management system which was created in the early 1980s, updated the road network database,
and developed efficient network maintenance and investment strategies and programs on the basis of
analyses carried out with the Bank-developed Highway Design and Maintenance Standards (HDM-III)
Model and the Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM) (Annex 2). Also, a bridge management system was
developed under the same project, and is being implemented in order to effectively monitor and plan for the
maintenance of about 5,000 bridges on the federal network. With these new tools and trained staff, the
Planning Division is now capable of effectively carrying out its planning and programming responsibilities.
However, a number of institutional weaknesses still need to be addressed to ensure the effective
implementation of the programs, in particular: (a) the lack of coordination among the various departments
(Planning, Engineering, Operations, and Concessions); (b) the limited capacity of the Engineering
Department to contract and effectively supervise the detailed engineering studies and the preparation of the
tender documents in order to ensure their consistency with the policies based on the HDM/EBM analyses of
the Planning Division; and (c) the insufficient technical capacity of the Engineering Department to contract
the supervision works and to effectively exercise its quality control and technical audit functions. In order
to address these issues, DNER has recently established a Coordinating Committee, strengthened the studies
and supervision divisions of the Engineering Department, improved the forms of engineering and
supervision contracts, established a central audit group, and started to implement a computerized project
management system. The proposed project will provide technical assistance and staff training to ensure the
effective implementation of the program (para. 3 .10).
2.29   DNER has a long tradition of contracting out capital works and maintenance operations to private
contractors. Little work, if any, is now being carried out by force account. With the exception of the



- 15 -
highways delegated to the DERs (about 8,000 km), the rest of the paved network (about 80% in length) is
currently maintained through private contractors under input and unit price form of contracts (Annex 2,
section H). This policy has enabled DNER to substantially improve the results of its maintenance
programs as compared to previous force account operations. But the complexity of these contracts, which
involve many items of works in small quantities, and the insufficient capacity of DNER to effectively
supervise such contracts and control the quantity and quality of the works on site, have led to numerous
contract modifications and price increases. In order to reduce this administrative burden and to improve
the efficiency of its routine maintenance operations, DNER management recently decided to experiment
with performance-based maintenance management contracts. DNER is now procuring such pilot contracts
in each of the regions. On the basis of the results of the pilot contracts, DNER will prepare a plan to
gradually increase the use of such form of contract. The project will provide technical assistance and
training of staff to monitor the pilot contracts, develop a performance-based maintenance management
program, and effectively implement and monitor such program (para. 3.10).
I. Environmental Management
2.30   Brazil has appropriate environmental protection legislation. In particular, any major civil works
project is subject to an environmental impact assessment to measure its effects on the inhabitants and on
the natural environment in the project area. For investments likely to have negative impacts, funds should
be included to mitigate any adverse effects. Under the Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project
(Loan 3169-BR), the Federal Government and DNER have prepared environmental standards and
guidelines for the transport sector in general and for the highway subsector in particular; and they have
strengthened their capabilities for implementing and for monitoring compliance with these standards. In
particular, DNER's environmental unit is staffed with one economist and three highway engineers, who
have received appropriate training. With technical assistance, the unit has developed a manual of
environmental norms and instructions (the Environmental Manual, EM) which, after approval by DNER's
Administrative Council, has been put into effect. The unit has established a computerized environmental
management system, and effectively supervised a number of environmental studies carried out by
consultants (Annex 5). It has also developed a methodology to assess environmental degradations along
existing highways, and to incorporate the necessary corrective designs and solutions into highway
rehabilitation engineering and works contracts.
2.31   The environmental management performance of the DERs is still mixed. Many DERs do not have
yet appropriate environmental norms or guidelines nor a capacity to implement them. But the seven DERs
participating in the project, which have benefited from Bank or IDB-financed projects, have already
established an institutional capacity to analyze the environmental impacts of their projects, take them into
account at the planning and design stages, and to effectively implement the necessary prevention or
mitigatory measures. Under the project, they will be required to adopt DNER's EM or equivalent, and to
strengthen their environmental units and procedures as necessary to effectively supervise the
implementation of the EM. The terms of the contracts for highway engineering, road works and concessions
would specify the environmental responsibilities of the consultants, contractors, concessionaires and DNER
or the DER, with appropriate references to the EM. The environmental units of DNER and the DERs, and
the Project Management Consultant would carry out appropriate supervision. In particular, the project
would help implement the necessary surveys, designs and works under the rehabilitation subprojects to
repair and prevent road-related environmental degradation (para. 3.15 and Annex 5).



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives, Origin and Rationale
3.01   Project Origin. The project's concept originated from three main factors: (a) Brazil's broad
decentralization and privatization objectives which were formalized in the 1988 Constitution, and the recent
regulation of public service concessions (Concession Law); (b) the Government's inability to adequately
fund the maintenance of the highway network under federal jurisdiction and the consequent funding
difficulties experienced under the recently-completed Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project
(Loan No. 3169-BR); and (c) the experience gained with strengthening the maintenance capacity of state
highway agencies under several state highway management projects. Following the transfer of road user
tax revenues from the federation to the states and municipalities, many states had to assume de facto
responsibilities, on a case by case basis, for essential works on federal highways which could not be funded
from the federal budget. But it became clear that in order to permit effective maintenance, management
and financing of the main highway network, the latter had to be reclassified, and highways had to be
transferred to state jurisdictions so as to correct or to alleviate the existing imbalance between revenue and
expenditure responsibilities. State govermnents agreed to assume responsibilities for certain highways on
the condition that they would be transferred in good condition or with the funds necessary for their
rehabilitation. On this basis, the Federal Government presented a draft law to the Congress (Sistema
Nacional de Via,do, SNT) to reclassify the national transport system, including the highway network. It
also negotiated agreements with the state governments to transfer responsibilities and to implement and
finance the necessary rehabilitation works. At the same time, the Federal Government and some state
governments developed programs to concession high-traffic highways.
3.02   Project Objectives. The project' s main objective is to improve and maintain the serviceability of
the main highway network on a sustainable basis, with a view to reducing road transport costs. Specific
objectives are to:
(a) rehabilitate federal highways;
(b) decentralize highway responsibilities to state governments;
(c) increase the participation of the private sector in the management and financing of highways
through concessions and maintenance management contracts; and
(d) strengthen the capabilities of DNER and the DERs to prepare, contract and monitor efficient
network rehabilitation and maintenance programs and highway concession projects.
Achievement of these objectives would be measured and monitored during implementation through a set of
key indicators (para. 4.09 (d) and Annex 8, Table 1). It is expected that the federal and the transferred
highway networks would be in a satisfactory condition at project completion, and that only routine and
preventive maintenance would be necessary thereafter.
3.03   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank's country assistance strategy for Brazil, discussed by
the Board of Executive Directors on June 29, 1995 with an update on June 20, 1996, identifies human
capital and infrastructure development as the principal bottleneck to Brazil's social and economic
development. The emphasis is on structural reforms aimed at stabilization and resumption of broad-based
growth, including the deregulation and privatization of infrastructure services, efficient allocation of



- 17 -
resources in the public sector, and on rebuilding and expanding a deteriorated and insufficient
infrastructure in partnership with the private sector. The proposed project is fully supportive of this
assistance strategy. By helping decentralize highway responsibilities, concession high-traffic highways to
private operators, and eliminate the maintenance backlog, the project will contribute to reducing the
financial burden on public sector finances, and to achieving a better balance between revenues and
expenditures at the federal and state levels. By helping implement efficient highway rehabilitation,
maintenance and operational improvement programs, the project will help reduce the cost of road transport
and thereby contribute to economic stabilization, to the resumption of growth in agriculture, industry and
trade, and to increased export competitiveness.
B. Project Description
3.04   The project would consist of three main components:
(a) a highway decentralization component, including:
(i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of DNER and the DERs to
implement:
(1) decentralization agreements between MT/DNER and each participating state, which would
specify the highway responsibilities to be transferred to the state, the terms and conditions for such
transfers, and the agreed actions to strengthen the DER capabilities to prepare and imnplement
efficient road network maintenance strategies and programns; and
(2) delegation agreements between DNER and each participating DER, which would specify the
respective responsibilities for executing the rehabilitation and maintenance works, and the related
work programs and performance indicators and targets; and
(ii) state rehabilitation subprojects consisting of: (1) the rehabilitation works on the highways to be
transferred to each state, as specified in the decentralization and delegation agreements, and
prepared and executed in accordance with criteria, norms and methodologies specified in an
Operational Manual (OM); and (2) the related engineering, economic and environmental studies
and supervision services;
(b)  a highway concession development component, including:
(i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of the newly-created DNER
Concession Department and several DER concession units to prepare, promote, supervise and
monitor highway concessions, and to establish effective regulatory framework and arbitration
mechanisms; and
(ii) concession studies consisting of engineering studies, economic and environmental assessments, and
project finance services for specific highway concession projects;
(c)   a federal highway component, including:
(i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of DNER to: (1) contract the
maintenance of an increasing portion of the non-concessioned network through performance-based
management contracts; (2) prepare a strategic plan, including staffing and training programs, and
implement a reorganization in line with its reduced operational responsibilities resulting from



- 18 -
decentralization, concessions and maintenance management contracts; and (3) coordinate and
monitor the implementation of the entire project;
(ii) federal rehabilitation subprojects consisting of: (1) rehabilitation works, including resurfacing,
operational and safety improvement, and environmental rehabilitation works on highways which
will remain under federal jurisdiction and are not part of the concession program, prepared and
executed in accordance with criteria, norms and methodologies specified in the OM; and (2) the
related engineering, economic and environmental studies and supervision services.
3.05   Highway Decentralization Component. The Government's plan is to transfer highway sections
totaling about 17,500 km, of which 12,500 km are paved, to state jurisdictions over the next four years
(Table 1, Annex 3). The main interstate highways and international connections (about 50,000 km, of
which 40,000 km are paved) would remain under federal jurisdiction. In order to transfer highway
responsibilities to state jurisdictions, the Federal Government, through MT/DNER, would enter into
decentralization agreements with state governments, which would specify the highway sections to be
transferred and the respective responsibilities of DNER and the state for the execution and funding of the
rehabilitation works and maintenance of these highway sections. Rehabilitation works would be designed
and implemented in accordance with the catalogue of technical solutions, which was developed and
optimized with the HDM III and EBM models, and which would be included in the OM (Annex 2).
Highway sections totaling about 4,000 km would need some rehabilitation works at an estimated total cost
of about US$225 million equivalent (Table 3.1 hereafter and Table 2, Annex 8). The rehabilitation works
and the transfer of highway responsibilities would be implemented in accordance with the time schedule and
monitoring indicators and targets included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) (Annex 8). Draft
decentralization agreements have been negotiated with all the participating states and four have already
been signed. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) the draft decentralization agreements;
(b) the catalogue of technical solutions included in the OM; and (c) the rehabilitation and decentralization
targets set forth in the PIP (Table 1, Annex 8). The signing of a decentralization agreement with the state,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement under a state rehabilitation subproject.
3.06   DNER would delegate the execution of seven state rehabilitation subprojects (Minas Gerais, Rio
Grande do Sul, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Goias, Bahia and Ceara) to the state DERs, which have adequate
implementation capabilities, and DNER would carry out supervision and monitoring. These seven states
combined would assume responsibility for highways totaling about 12,000 km (or 70% of the total length
to be transferred) (Annex 3, Table 1); and they would rehabilitate sections totaling about 3,500 km (or
88% of the total length to be rehabilitated). DNER would carry out the remaining works in those states
which have insufficient capabilities or very few highways to be transferred. The project would include
technical assistance and training to help state DERs to develop efficient state highway expenditure
programs based on network surveys and HDM analyses, cost-effective maintenance programs, and
highway concession projects (Annex 6). Draft delegation agreements have been negotiated with the seven
above-mentioned states. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) the draft delegation
agreements; (b) DNER to finalize and execute satisfactory delegation agreements with the seven
participating DERs in accordance with the targets set forth in the PIP, including three delegation
agreements not later than three months after the effective date of the loan; and (c) the scope of the technical
assistance and training to the state DERs (Annex 6). The signing of a delegation agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, would be a condition of disbursement under a delegated state rehabilitation subproject.
3.07   Highway Concession Development Component. This component would include consultant and
training services to help: (a) DNER organize and strengthen its new Concession Department, including the
Department's planning and development, project finance, promotion and marketing, bidding and bid



- 19 -
evaluation, and concession supervision and monitoring functions; (b) some state DERs prepare and rnonitor
their concession programs; and (c) DNER carry out technico-economic and financial feasibility studies,
environmental assessments, engineering designs, and promotion services for specific highway concession
projects. The specific highway concession projects, which would involve the operation and maintenance of
existing highways, and possibly rehabilitation and capacity investments (widening and dualization), or new
construction, would be implemented by DNER and some state DERs separatelv from the proposed project.
At the request of the Government, the Bank could assess the feasibility of extending partial risk and/or
credit guarantees to private lenders for highway concession projects which otherwise would not be
attractive to private investors. In such cases, the Bank would appraise the technical. economic, financial
and environmental aspects of the specific projects.
3.08   The Government's objective is to concession federal highways totaling about 10,000 km over the
next four years, including the already concessioned five sections (about 850 kni) (Table 1, Annex 4). For
this purpose, the Government has already delegated such federal highway sections totaling about 5,000 km
to the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Parana and Santa Catarina for concessioning bv the respective state
DERs. Negotiations are underway with the state of Minas Gerais, which could also lead to such delegation
agreement. The remaining highways would be concessioned directly by DNER. The rehabilitation works
needed on the highways to be offered for concession, which are estimated to cost about US$600 million
equivalent under no budget constraint, have therefore not been included in DNER's public expenditure
program nor in the project. In the event that some or all these highway concession projects would not
materialize, DNER has developed and would implement a maintenance contingency plan on such highways.
The resources necessary for the contingency plan would not exceed US$100 million over 1997-2000.
Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) draft terms of reference for the concession
technical assistance and training; (b) the implementation time schedule, indicators and targets for the
concession development component (para. 4.09 (b) and Annex 4); and (c) Government guarantee of funds
for the maintenance contingency plan.
3.09   Federal Highway Component. On the portion of the highway network which will remain under
federal jurisdiction and managed by DNER, i.e., which would not be transferred or concessioned (about
40,000 km), the project would include: (a) rehabilitation or resurfacing works, including environimental
rehabilitation works, on highway sections of a total length of about 11.000 km over 1997-2001, at an
estimated total base cost of about US$709 million equivalent; and (b) operational and safetv improvement
works (including third lane or shoulder widening, improvement of curves and intersections, and
strengthening or widening of bridges) at an estimated total cost of about US$100 million over 1997-2001
(Table 3.1 hereafter and Table 2, Annex 8). Operational and safety improvement works, as well as the
environmental rehabilitation works would be incorporated into the rehabilitation contracts. The 1997-1998
rehabilitation or resurfacing program totals about 2,650 km and includes operational improvements on
about 250 km. The engineering designs and economic and environmental analyses for the 1997-1998
program have been reviewed by the appraisal mission, and found satisfactory (Table 3, Annex 2). The
Bank would annually review DNER's rehabilitation and maintenance program for the subsequent year,
including: the federal and state rehabilitation subprojects, which would be prepared in accordance with the
criteria, standards and methodologies set forth in the OM, and with the indicators and targets set foith in
the PIP; and all other rehabilitation and maintenance projects, which would be prepared in accordance with
the catalogue of technical solutions included in the OM. During loan negotiations, agreement was reached
on: (a) the criteria, standards and methodologies, included in the OM, for the preparation and review of
DNER's annual rehabilitation and maintenance programs (para. 4.09 (c)); and (b) the implementation time
schedule, indicators and targets for the federal highway component (para. 4.09 (c) and Arnex 8).



- 20 -
3.10   The technical assistance and training part of the federal highway component would help DNER to:
(a) prepare and carry out a maintenance management plan, on the basis of the results of several pilot
performance-based maintenance management contracts, to increase the use of such form of maintenance
management contracts on the non-concessioned network (Annex 2, section H); (b) prepare a strategic plan
and carry out the necessary reorganization and staff development program to gradually downsize its
operations in line with its reduced operational responsibilities resulting from decentralization, concessions
and rmaintenance management contracts, strengthen its strategic planning, management and supervision
unictions, and to re-design or improve the related work processes and methodologies; and (c) coordinate
and monitor the implementation of the project, through the assignment of a specialized Project Management
Consultant (PMC) to assist DNER Project Management Unit (PMU) and DER Subproject Management
Units (SMU) in effectively coordinating the implementation of the project and subprojects (para. 4.06).
Agiceement was reached during loan negotiations on the letter of invitation and terns of reference for the
)Pj fC contract. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that DNER has contracted the PMC.
C. Project Cost and Financing
3. -1l The total cost of the project is estimated at      Table 3.1: Estirmated Project Costs and Financing
JS$1.250 million equivalent, including US$250 million                   (US$ million)
tOr rehabilitation of decentralized highways, US$1.5   Component Costs        Local  Foreien   Total
'mllion for concession technical assistance and training,
US$900 million  for rehabilitation  and operational   Decentralization Works   135      90    225
iimoprovement of federal highways, US$84 million for   Concession Tech. Assist.  -       1       I
c ngineering, studies, and works supervision, US$3.5   Federal Highway Works   485     324    809
tiillion- for technical assistance, training of staff, and   Engineering&Supervision  45  29    74
US'l 1  million for project management. The foreign
c chiange cost component is estimated at about US$500   Tech. Assist. & Training  1      2       3
mnillionl  or 40%, and the tax component at about   Project Managernent          5       5      10
U.S$190 million, or 15%.  The total project cost  Total Base Cost             671      451    1122
includes physical contingencies of US$56 million or   Physical Contingencies   35       21      56
5%  of base cost, and price contingencies of US$72
rill'ion (or about 6%  of base cost plus physical   Price Contingencies         44      28      72
contingencies),  estimated  on  the  basis  of  the   Total Cost               750     500   1,250
disbursement schedule and a 2.3% average annual price   Financing Plan
increase  for both  local and  foreign  expenditures   Bank Loan No. 1         150     150    300
e. pressed in US dollars. Cost estimates for civil works
Bank Loan No. 2         100     100    200
ate based on average per-kilometer costs supported by
engineering estimates and recent contract prices. Cost  IDB Loan No. 1         150     150    300
estimates  for  consultant  services  are  based  on   IDB Loan No. 2          100     100    200
prevailing local and foreign specialist-month rates. The   Federal Governnent  250        -    250
estimated costs of the individual project components   Total Financing         750     500   1,250
are detailed in Table 2, Annex 8, and are summarized
in TI able 3.1 herewith.
3. 12   The project would be financed from two Bank loans of respectively US$300 million and US$200
millioni equivalent (totaling 40% of the project cost), from two proposed loans from the IDB of respectively
US$300 million and US$200 million equivalent (totaling also 40% of the project cost), and from Federal
Govetmrnent own resources for US$250 million (or 20% of the project cost). The second loan from the
Bank would be presented to the Board of Directors when an amount of at least US$225 million equivalent



- 21 -
(or 75%) has been disbursed from the first Bank loan, on the condition that all the covenants of the first
loan agreement are substantially complied with, and the implementation and development impact targets set
forth in the PIP are substantially met. The project financing plan is presented in Table 2, Annex 8, and is
summarized in Table 3.1 above. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on: (a) Borrower
guarantee of counterpart funds, including funding for the concession contingency maintenance plan; and (b)
in order to permit the start up of urgent subprojects, retroactive financing in an amount of not more than
10% of the loan amount for civil works, goods, and consultant and training expenditures incurred not
earlier than January 1, 1997 or twelve months before the date of loan signing, whichever is later.
3.13   Highway rehabilitation, resurfacing, operational and safety improvement, and environmental
rehabilitation works, engineering, economic and environmental studies, works supervision, and technical
assistance, training and rmiscellaneous equipment for institutional development would be eligible for
disbursement under the loan. The loan would be disbursed at the rates of 80% of total expenditures for
eligible civil works, engineering and other studies, and works supervision, and 100% for eligible technical
assistance and training services and miscellaneous equipment. Agreement was reached during loan
negotiations on the above disbursement percentages.
D. Environmental and Economic Assessments
3.14   Environmental Effects.  The project, which consists essentially of the rehabilitation ana
resurfacing of existing paved highways, and of localized operational and safety improvements, could ha-v.
possible adverse environmental effects which, however, can be prevented or mitigated by relatively simple
measures. The project has therefore been rated "B" for environmental assessment purposes. The possible
adverse effects of the rehabilitation, resurfacing and most operational and safety improvement works are
limited to those resulting from quarrying, borrow pits, or the disposal of used pavement materials. Sorme
operational and safety improvement works, such as the construction of climbing lanes, widening of
shoulders and the improvement of curves and intersections, could have adverse impacts on the people living
close to the highway, if they are located in high population density areas, or on slope erosion if they aie
located in mountainous terrain. In addition, since in the past many highways were built without adequate
attention to the environment, the related environmental liabilities, which generally consist of uncontrolled
erosion, adversely affect highway structures or right-of-ways, sometimes adjacent properties.
3.15   Environmental Management Plan. In order to effectively prevent or mitigate such adverse
impacts, DNER has prepared and would implement an environmental management plan (Annex 5). In
particular, DNER has established an environmental unit with adequately trained staff Through Resolution
No. 126/96 of its Administrative Council, DNER has put into effect a manual of environmental norms and
instructions for road engineering and works (the Environmental Manual, EM), which was reviewed by the
appraisal mission and found satisfactory. DNER has also initiated the preparation of a resettlement polic-
framework which, after approval by the Bank, would be put into effect by the end of 1997. The seven
participating DERs would be required, through the delegation agreements, to adopt the EM and the
resettlement framework for all project investments. The standard terms of reference (TOR) of the
engineering studies for all project investments, which are included in the OM, as well as those for the
concession projects, which have been reviewed by the appraisal mission, include satisfactory requirements
for environmental and resettlement screening, assessments and management, and the necessary references
to the EM and to the resettlement framework. Also, the engineering consultants are required to identify
environmental liabilities along the highways under study, organize the related information in DNER's road
database, design appropriate corrective measures and works, and incorporate such corrective measures and
works, together with the normal prevention measures, into the highway rehabilitation or concession



- 22 -
contracts. The standard forms of contracts for works or concessions will also incorporate all necessary
enviromnental management requirements and references to the EM. Adequate supervision and control of
the engineering studies and works will be carried out by DNER and the DERs' environmental units, and by
the project management consultant, in order to ensure effective implementation. It was agreed during loan
negotiations that DNER would: (a) provide evidence by December 31, 1997 that it has adopted a
resettlement policy framework acceptable to the Bank; and (b) present for comments the environmental
specifications of the tender documents for the first three concessions.
3.16   Project Benefits. The project's main objective is to improve and maintain the serviceability of
the main highway network with a view to reduce the cost of road transport. Road users, and producers
and consumers of goods transported by road, would benefit from reduced vehicle operating costs and
from travel time savings, as well as from fewer accidents and improved comfort. DNER, the Federal
and the state governments, and ultimately taxpayers would benefit from the reduced recurrent costs of
maintaining the highways which would be rehabilitated under the project, as well as from the avoided
higher costs of future reconstruction. They would also benefit from the transfer of highway costs to
users under the concession program supported by the project. As a result, the state governments
wouild niot incur a significant increase of their expenditure responsibilities as a consequence of
decentralization. The three components of the project are separable. The decentralization and the
federal components which, together, account for over 99 percent of project cost, have been evaluated
jointly as well as separately (Annex 7, sections E-G).
3.17   Economic Evaluation.  The design of the project was optimized through the economic
analysis. The methodology consisted in comparing the Net Present Value (NPV) of alternative network
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies and associated programs, and selecting the strategies which
mnaximize the NPV under various budget constraints. The costs and benefits of each alternative were
quantified with the help of the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM III).
The optimum rehabilitation and maintenance strategy and associated program for the agreed budget
constraint (US$225 million per year) was then selected using the Expenditure Budgeting Model. The
selected alternative would reduce the proportion of the federal highway network in poor condition from
12 percent in 1997 to less than two percent in 2002, and would increase the proportion in good
condition from about 40 percent to about 50 percent over the same period.  The average vehicle
operating cost on the network would decline from US$0.42 to about US$0.395 equivalent per vehicle-
knm. If the project is not undertaken, the proportion of the network in poor condition would increase to
about 30 percent and the proportion in good condition would decrease to less than 10 percent over the
next five years; the average vehicle operating cost would increase to about US$0.45 per vehicle-km;
and the subsequent cost of rehabilitation and maintenance of the network after 2002 would be more
than twice the cost of the project, i.e. about US$600 million per year (Annex 7, section E).
3.18   The project has an estimated NPV of about US$3.4 billion equivalent at a 12 percent discount
rate over ten years. Its internal economic rate of return (IERR) is estimated at a very high 106 percent
in the base case. The decentralization component (20 percent of project cost) has an estimated NPV of
about US$640 million and the federal highway component (79 percent of project cost) has an estimated
NPV of about US$2.8 billion equivalent. The sensitivity analyses show that if project costs were 20%
higher than expected, the IERR would still be 88 percent, and if project benefits were 20% lower than
expected, the IERR would be 84 percent. In the event that it would take six rather than four years to
complete the project, the NPV would be reduced to US$3.1 billion equivalent and the IERR to 85
percent. The project costs would have to be about four times higher, or the project benefits would
have to be four times lower than the appraisal estimates for the NPV to become negative; these are
highly unlikely scenarios (Annex 7, sections E and F).



- 23 -
E. Project Risks
3.19   The main risks are: ineffective management of federal and state subprojects by DNER and the
participating DERs; inadequate coordination and monitoring of state subprojects by DNER; insufficient
counterpart funds, in particular for maintenance; delays in the approval of the proposed SNV Law by the
Congress; and lack of interest of private investors or financiers in the concession program. The experience
acquired with similar projects has been incorporated into the project's design in order to minimize these
risks. In particular, the project would provide for: adequate organizational arrangements and a project
management plan, with clearly defined processes, responsibilities and accountability; simple methodologies,
well suited to the agencies' technical capacities; a detailed project implementation plan, with suitable
indicators and targets to monitor procurement, physical and financial execution of work programs, network
condition, and agency development; well-focused technical assistance and training of DNER and DER staff
in key technical and management areas; as well as comprehensive Operational and Environmental Manuals.
3.20   DNER's project management unit (PMU) has been staffed with experienced professionals and, as a
condition of loan effectiveness, would be assisted by a specialized Project Management Consultant (PMC),
with experience satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.09 (e)). The project implementation plan and the
computerized project management system (CPMS) will be the basis for managing and monitoring
implementation. In order to ensure appropriate funding, the Bank would review DNER expenditure and
funding programs each year at the time of budget preparation against the agreed targets. The Bank will
have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of disbursements or cancellation and
reallocation of loan proceeds to well-performing subprojects, if DNER or a DER has defaulted on the
obligations to achieve the agreed targets. In the event that the Congress does not approve the SNV Law,
the decentralization agreements to be signed with all the state governments specify that the state
governments assume all operation and maintenance responsibilities on the transferred highways for a period
of at least ten years. A contingency maintenance plan was prepared for highways included in the
concession program, in case some or all the proposed concessions would not enter into effect, and the
Government would guarantee the necessary funds.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. Institutional Responsibilities
4.01   The Government of Brazil (GOB) and the National Roads Department (DNER) of the Ministry of
Transport, would be responsible for implementing the project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Operational Manual (OM). The following sections of the PIP are
summarized hereafter: Institutional Responsibilities (section A); Organizational Arrangements (section B);
Project Implementation Action Plan (section C); Procurement Arrangements (section D); Disbursement,
Accounting and Audit Arrangements (section E); and Monitoring and Supervision Plan (section F), for
which detailed guidelines are provided in the OM. The detailed implementation arrangements, time
schedule, indicators and targets are presented in Annex 8. The Loan Agreement between the Federative
Republic of Brazil and the Bank and the Project Agreement between the Bank and DNER would specify
the above.
4.02   The Government of Brazil (GOB), through the Ministry of Transport (MT), would be
responsible for finalizing and executing the decentralization agreements with the participating states.



- 24 -
DNER would be responsible for implementing the project in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) and the Operational Manual (OM). With technical assistance from a Project
Management Consultant, DNER would in particular: (a) under the highway decentralization
component: finalize and execute the delegation agreements with the seven participating DERs; prepare
and implement, and assist participating DERs in preparing and implementing state rehabilitation
subprojects in accordance with the criteria, standards and methodologies specified in the OM, and with
the environmental norms and instructions set forth in the Environmental Manual (EM); and review and
monitor state subproject implementation, including engineering designs, economic and environmental
assessments, and procurement and disbursements; (b) under the highway concession development
component: organize and strengthen its recently-created Concession Department; establish and maintain
appropriate arbitration mechanisms for federal highway concessions; and prepare, tender, supervise
and monitor specific federal highway concession projects; and (c) under the federal highway
component: prepare and implement federal rehabilitation subprojects, contract maintenance activities on
the non-concessioned highways, prepare a strategic plan and carry out the reorganization, and
coordinate the implementation of the entire project.
4.03   The seven participating DERs would be responsible for implementing their respective state
rehabilitation subprojects in accordance with Subproject Implementation Plans (SIPs), and with the criteria,
norms and methodologies specified in the OM, including the catalogue of technical solutions, the terms of
reference for subproject studies, and the environmental norms and instructions specified in the EM. For
this purpose, DNER and the participating DERs would sign delegation agreements, which would specify
their respective responsibilities in implementing the state rehabilitation subprojects.  DNER, with
assistance from the project management consultant, would review and monitor the implementation of the
state rehabilitation subprojects against the indicators and targets included in the SIPs. It would be a
condition of disbursement under a delegated subproject that satisfactory decentralization and delegation
agreements have become effective.
4.04   The Bank would approve ex-ante all delegation agreements, including SIPs, as well as all state and
federal rehabilitation subprojects for financing under the project on the basis of subproject applications in
an agreed format. The Bank would review ex-ante procurement documentation for all contracts for works
above US$5.0 million. The Bank would monitor project implementation against the indicators and targets
included in the PIP. A detailed mid-term project implementation review would be carried out when 75% of
the loan amount is disbursed, prior to presenting the proposed second Bank loan to the Board of Directors.
In addition to reviewing overall project performance, the mission would identify problem subprojects,
which would be reformulated or terminated, and loan funds would be reallocated to well-performing states
or to DNER with the Bank's ex-ante approval (para. 4.19).
B. Organizational Arrangements
4.05   In order to coordinate the implementation of the project, the Director-General of DNER, through
Portaria No. 073/97 dated January 22, 1997, has established a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) and
a Project Management Unit (PMU), with terms of reference (Regimento Interno) which the appraisal
mission reviewed and found satisfactory. The PCC includes the Directors of the Departments involved in
the project, and is responsible for effective inter-departmental coordination. The PMU is headed by the
Chief, Planning Division (Assessoria de Planejamento), who reports directly to the Director-General. It is
responsible for the management of the overall project and for communications with the Bank, the IDB and
Federal and state government agencies. The PMU includes four central units, responsible for the
rehabilitation, decentralization, concession and institutional development components, and for



- 25 -
administration, and three regional units, to be established in Salvador, Belo Horizonte and Porto Alegre, to
supervise the subprojects in the Northeast, Southeast and South regions respectively (Annex 6). The above
organization arrangements incorporate the experience acquired in implementing the recently-completed
Highways Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan no. 3169-BR), which suffered from lack of
coordination among the various departments involved, and from an insufficiently staffed PMU located at a
lower organizational level. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that DNER would maintain
organizational arrangements for project execution satisfactory to the Bank, including a project coordination
committee and a project management unit with terms of reference and staffing, and headed by a project
manager with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
4.06   DNER intends to contract a specialized Project Management Consultant (PMC) to assist the PMU,
the permanent departments of DNER, and the participating DERs in effectively coordinating and carrying
out the project and the delegated subprojects. The PMC would in particular assist: the Planning Division of
DNER and the participating DERs in monitoring the network and preparing efficient annual expenditure
programs; the Engineering Division in contracting, supervising and monitoring engineering designs to
ensure consistency with the agreed pavement management, operational and safety improvement, and
environmental and resettlement management policies and standards; the Procurement Division in complying
with agreed procurement timetables and targets; the DNER districts and participating DERs in supervising
the works; the PMU and the state DERs in carrying out their project and subproject management functions.
In order to facilitate project planning, scheduling, control and coordination among the departments
involved, DNER, with assistance from the PMC, would complete the development of, and establish a
computerized project management system (CPMS). Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on:
(a) the invitation letter and TOR for the Project Management Consultant; (b) the establishment of the
CPMS not later than three months after the effective date of the loan; and, as a condition of loan
effectiveness, that DNER would: (c) contract the PMC on the basis of the agreed TOR.
4.07   DNER has recently established a Concession Department responsible for carrying out the highway
concession program. The department is headed by a Director who reports directly to the Director-General
(Annex 10, Chart 1). The department includes a Concession Development Division, responsible for
planning, studies, project finance and marketing, and a Concession Supervision Division, responsible for
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, and user relations. DNER's regional districts would establish
concession operations and supervision sections where appropriate (Annex 4). DNER would contract a
intemational consulting firm with extensive international experience in highway concessions to help
organize and strengthen the Concession Department and to train its staff. Agreement was reached during
loan negotiations on: (a) the TOR for the concession technical assistance assignment; and (b) DNER to
contract the highway concession consultant by December 31, 1997.
4.08   The participating DERs, which have recently completed or are currently carrying out projects
financed by the Bank or the IDB, have adequate implementation capabilities. They have started
establishing organizational arrangements to carry out their subprojects. Execution responsibilities would be
distributed according to the specific organization of each DER. Each participating DER has established a
Subproject Management Unit (SMU), headed by a qualified and experienced Subproject Manager, who
reports directly to the DER Director-General. With these arrangements and with the assistance of the
PMC, the participating DERs would have the capabilities to carry out the respective subprojects efficiently
under the coordination and monitoring of the PMU. Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations
that each participating DER would establish and/or maintain organizational arrangements for subproject
execution satisfactory to the Bank including, as conditions of loan disbursement under a delegated state
rehabilitation subproject: (a) a Subproject Management Unit (SMU), with adequate structure, functions



- 26 -
and responsibilities; (b) a computerized management system interfaced with the DNER CPMS; and (c)
adoption of the Operational and .Environmental Manuals.
C. Project Implementation Action Plan
4.09   The following actions, which are included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), were
confirmed during loan negotiations:
(a)  Highway Decentralization Component
(i) DNER, will prepare or cause participating DERs to prepare state rehabilitation subprojects in
accordance with criteria, standards and methodologies set forth in the OM, satisfactory to the
Bank, and will forward state subproject applications, including decentralization agreements and, if
applicable, draft delegation agreements and SIPs, in the format set forth in the OM, for Bank
approval of subproject financing under the loan;
(ii) DNER, after Bank approval of state subproject financing, will carry out, or cause the participating
DER to carry out, the state subproject in accordance with the terms of the delegation agreement
and the SIP, and will make all the necessary transfers of funds for this purpose;
(iii) the GOB, through MT, will enter into decentralization agreements with the participating states and
DNER will enter into delegation agreements with the participating DERs, in accordance with the
timetable, indicators and targets set forth in Annex 8;
(iv) DNER will monitor state subproject implementation in accordance with procedures, criteria and
methodologies set forth in the OM and against the monitoring indicators and targets set forth in the
respective SIPs;
(v) MT, through the decentralization agreements, will cause the DERs to: carry out surface and
structural condition, traffic, axle-weight, and accident surveys on their entire networks, including
the transferred highways; organize these data in a computerized database; review their network
maintenance, rehabilitation, and upgrading policies, strategies and programs on the basis of the
results of these surveys and in accordance with the procedures, criteria and methodologies set forth
in the OM; and reflect the results of these surveys and analyses in the state road expenditure
programs; and
(vi) DNER, through the delegation agreements, will cause the participating DERs to implement
DNER's Environmental Manual for all project investments and, for this purpose, incorporate
appropriate environmental clauses, satisfactory to the Bank, in the road engineering, works and
supervision contracts;
(b)   Highway Concession Development Component
(i) DNER will strengthen the capacity of its newly-created Concession Department and its relevant
regional districts to carry out the highway concession program efficiently, and, for this purpose, by
December 31, 1997, will contract a highway concession specialist firm on the basis of TOR
satisfactory to the Bank;



- 27 -
(ii) DNER wviII tender, or cause DERs to tender, concessions for federal highway sections in
accordance with the time schedule and targets set forth in Annex 8; and
(iii) the GOB will provide the funds necessary over 1998-2000 to implement the emergency
maintenance contingency program in the event that some or all the proposed concessions do not
enter into effect.
(c)  Federal Highway Component
(i) By July 31 each year during project implementation, DNER will present to the Bank its
rehabilitation and maintenance program for the following year, including the subprojects, which
should be prepared in accordance with the criteria, standards and methodologies set forth in the
OM and with the physical implementation and funding targets set forth in Table 1, Annex 8, and
all other rehabilitation and maintenance projects, which should be prepared in accordance with the
technical standards (catalogue of technical solutions) included in the OM;
(ii) the GOB will prepare its annual budget proposals on the basis of the DNER programs and of the
minimum funding targets for rehabilitation and maintenance set forth in Table 1, Annex 8;
(iii) by December 31, 1997, DNER will present evidence that it has adopted a resettlement policy
framework acceptable to the Bank, consistent with the terms of the Resettlement Letter, which shall
apply to the preparation and implementation of any resettlement plan or activity which may be
required under the project;
(iv) by June 30, 1999, DNER will present to the Bank for comments, a plan, including a timetable, to
increase the application of the performance-based form of highway maintenance contracts to the
non-concessioned federal highway network, taking into account the results of the pilot contracts,
and thereafter implement it, taking into account the comments of the Bank; and
(v) by December 31, 1998, DNER will present to the Bank for comments a strategic plan, including
reorganization, staffing and training programs and a timetable, in line with its reduced operational
responsibilities resulting from  decentralization, concessions and maintenance management
contracts, and thereafter implement it, taking into account the comments of the Bank.
(d)    Project Management
(i) As a condition of loan effectiveness, DNER will contract the project management consultant on the
basis of TORs satisfactory to the Bank and, not later than three months after the effective date of
the loan, put into effect a computerized project management system, satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) as conditions of disbursement under a delegated state rehabilitation subproject, DNER will cause
the participating DER to: (a) establish an SMU with structure, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory of the Bank; (b) put into effect a computerized project management system interfaced
with the DNER CPMS; and (c) adopt the OM and the EM; and
(iii) DNER will carry out the project in accordance with the PIP (Annex 8), including the monitoring
indicators and targets (Table 1, Annex 8).



- 28 -
D. Procurement Arrangements
4.10    Procurement arrangements
are sununarized in Table 4. 1.                ~~~Table 4. 1- Procurement Method I/
are summarized in Table 4.1.
(US$ million)
4.11    All civil works contracts                               ------------Procurement Method---------
estimated to cost US$5.0 million or   Project Element           ICB     NCB       Other   n.b.f 2/    Total
more would be procured through   Civil Works                    300    270.4.                584      1,154
International Competltive Bldding
(ICB) procedures, in  accordance                               (240)    (215)        -         -      (455)
with Bank  Guidelines and using   Equipment                        -        -        l         -         1
relevant     standard       bidding                                                 (l)        -       (1)
documents issued by the Bank. Any   Consultants & Training 3/      -        -       52        43        95
modifications to such documents
which  may  be  necessary  would                                 -(44)                      -          (44)
have to be agreed with the Bank.   Total                         300     270        53       627     1,250
Civil  works   contracts   below    (Bank financed) 5/         (240)    (215)      (45)        -      (500)
US$5.0 million, up to an aggregate   of which: Loan no. 1:     (140)    (127)     (33)               (300)
amount of US$160 million under
the proposed first loan, would be             Loan no.2:       (100)     (88)      (12)              (200)
I/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
procured      through      National   2/ Amounts not financed by the Bank; civil works and consultants financed by the IDB
Competitive    Bidding    (NCB)   3/ Services contracted in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
procedures   basedonstandard Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997
procedures,  based  on  standard   4/ Of which US$160 million under Loan no. I and US$ 110 million under Loan no. 2
bidding  documents  which  were   5/ Total Bank financing including proposed Loan no. I and tentative Loan no. 2
reviewed by the appraisal mission
and found satisfactory, and which, after approval by the Bank, will be included in the OM. The value of
individual civil works contracts is expected to vary between US$1.0 and US$10.0 million (total cost about
US$570 million). Miscellaneous road laboratory and office equipment and software would be purchased
by shopping on the basis of price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers, when they cannot be
packaged in contracts exceeding US$100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million. NCB
procedures would be used for contracts for goods exceeding US$100,000 and below US$350,000 in the
event that such contracts are required. Consultants for detailed engineering, construction supervision,
technical assistance and training programs would be selected and engaged following Bank Guidelines for
Selection and Employment of Consultants by Borrowers (January 1997), and the standard contract issued
by the Bank would be used for complex, time-based assignments.
4.12    DNER is the principal implementing agency, responsible for carrying out all the federal and some
state rehabilitation subprojects, and for reviewing and monitoring the delegated state rehabilitation
subprojects, including all procurement. DNER's organization for and experience with procurement were
reviewed during appraisal and found to be satisfactory. All the seven executing DERs have implemented
Bank or IDB-financed projects and therefore have experience with Bank and/or IDB procurement.
However, before sending a delegated state rehabilitation subproject to the Bank for review, the PMU,
through the PMC, would make a detailed review of the executing DER's procurement organization and
capacity, and, if necessary, seek agreement on actions to strengthen such procurement capacity. The PMU,
through the PMC, would provide technical assistance and training services as necessary. The Borrowers'
procurement law (Law no. 8.666 of June 21, 1993), as amended, specifically authorizes executing agencies
to procure goods and services financed by multilateral institutions in accordance with the norms and
procedures of the financial institutions. All ICB contracts, the first two NCB contracts for civil works
procured by DNER and each executing DER, all contracts for goods estimated at US$350,000 equivalent



- 29 -
or more, the first two NCB contracts for goods, all contracts with consulting firms estimated at
US$100,000 equivalent or more, and all contracts with individual consultants estimated at US$50,000
equivalent or more, would be subject to the Bank's prior review of all procurement documentation and
decisions. These prior-review arrangements would cover contracts totaling about 70% of the total cost of
Bank-financed works, goods and services. The balance of contracts would be subject to selective ex-post
review by the Bank after contract award. Agreement was reached during loan negotiations on the above
procurement arrangements.
E. Disbursement, Accounting and Audit Arrangements
4.13   The Bank loan would be disbursed for: (a) civil works, at the rate of 80% of total expenditures; (b)
equipment, at the rate of 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
80% of local expenditures for other items procured locally; (c) consultant services for studies at the rate of
80% of total expenditures; and (d) consultant services for technical assistance and staff training at the rate
of 100% of expenditures. The allocations of the proceeds of the loan are shown in Table 3, Annex 8.
Based upon experience with similar projects and the relevant standard disbursement profile for highway
projects, the implementation period for the project is estimated at six years. The project completion date
would therefore be June 30, 2002, and the Closing Date would be December 31, 2002. The estimated loan
disbursement schedule is shown in Table 4, Annex 8.
4.14   In order to reduce the interval during which the Borrower would finance the Bank's share of project
cost with their own resources, the Borrower would establish a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in a
commercial bank to cover the local and foreign currency expenditures of the project. The Bank would
deposit up to US$30.0 million in the SA. The Bank would replenish the Special Account for the amount of
withdrawals on account of eligible expenditures at the request of the Borrower. DNER has adequate
accounting control to enable disbursement to be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Supporting documentation with respect to expenditures against contracts valued at up to US$5.0 million
equivalent for civil works, US$350,000 equivalent for goods, and US$100,000 equivalent for consulting
firm services, would be retained by DNER and/or the participating DERs, be available for inspection
during project supervision missions, and be subject to auditing by the extemal auditors. Expenditures for
contracts above these limits and for all contracts with individual consultants would be documented. During
loan negotiations, agreement was reached with the GOB on: (a) the above disbursement arrangements; and
(b) contracting by DNER of independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit their accounts, including
the project accounts, the Special Account and the Statements of Expenditures, and to fumish the auditors'
reports to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
F. Monitoring and Supervision Plan
4.15   DNER would establish an appropriate computerized project management system to monitor the
implementation of the project, so as to produce adequate information to report to DNER management and
to the Bank. Participating DERs, as a condition of disbursement under delegated state rehabilitation
subprojects, would establish similar systems, interfaced with the DNER system, in accordance with the
specifications included in the OM, so as to produce consistent information on subproject implementation
and to report to the PMU. During negotiations, agreement was reached that DNER would prepare and
forward to the Bank quarterly progress reports, in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the OM,
satisfactory to the Bank and the IDB, not later than one month after the end of each quarter.



- 30 -
4.16   The PMU, assisted by the PMC, would coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project,
and review the following documents prepared by DNER or the participating DERs: (a) financing
application forms for subprojects included in the annual rehabilitation and maintenance programs and
proposed for Bank or IDB financing; (b) annual procurement and execution time schedules;
(c) procurement documentation for civil works and equipment; (d) terms of reference, invitation letters,
shortlists and draft contracts for consultant services; and (e) DER quarterly subproject implementation
progress reports; and would forward them to the Bank as appropriate. PMU and PMC staff would carry
out state subproject review missions, and would participate in the Bank's and the IDB's supervision
missions to the states.
4.17   The Bank and the IDB would coordinate their supervision work programs, in order to avoid
duplication of efforts. In particular, delegated state rehabilitation subprojects would be assigned to the
institution which is already actively involved in the state's highway sector. The Bank would retain full
responsibility for approving all the documents mentioned in the previous paragraph and the related actions
by DNER and the participating DERs in respect of the subprojects financed by the Bank. The Bank would
supervise and monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with the Monitoring and Supervision
Plan presented in Annex 9. The estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities, which are shown
in the table of Annex 9, take into consideration the expected contributions of the PMU and the PMC, as
well as the above-mentioned coordination with the IDB.
4.18   The implementation of the project would be monitored against the time schedule and the
development objective and implementation progress monitoring indicators and targets set forth in the PIP
and in a Project Monitoring Letter (Annex 8, Chart 1 and Table 1). The development objective indicators
are: (i) surface condition of the federal and transferred networks measured by the percentages of the
network length in poor condition (IRI above 5) and in good condition (IRI below 3); (ii) average vehicle
operating costs on the network calculated with the HDM III model as calibrated during the appraisal
mission; (iii) highway transfers to states measured in km; (iv) federal highway concessions tendered
measured in thousand km; (v) maintenance management contracts measured by the percentage of the non-
concessioned federal network length maintained by private contractors under performance-based
management contracts; (vi) DNER design and supervision effectiveness measured by the average cost per
km of rehabilitation subprojects; (vii) DER planning and programming capacity measured by the number
of DERs with a pavement management system. The implementation progress indicators are: (viii) the
numbers of decentralization and delegation agreements signed; (ix) rehabilitation works procured and
executed, on federal and transferred highways, measured in thousand km; (x) average costs per km of the
operational and safety improvement and environmental rehabilitation works; (xi) funding levels for routine
maintenance and for the project; and (xii) technical assistance and training measured by the total number of
man-months and trainee-weeks respectively.
4.19   A comprehensive Mid-Term review of the implementation of the project would be carried out when
75 percent of the loan amount has been disbursed, prior to presenting the proposed second loan to the
Board of Executive Directors. The review will cover all the agreed actions, target dates, and development
objective and implementation progress indicators included in the PIP and the SIPs and the status of
compliance with all covenants of the Loan and Project Agreements and the highway decentralization and
delegation agreements. Particular importance will be given to: (a) the Borrower's commitment to provide
adequate funds for maintenance and rehabilitation, and counterpart funds for the project; and (b)
MT/DNER performance under the agreed decentralization, concession, and federal highway components.
The monitoring targets for the subsequent years would be revised if the additional financing from the Bank
and/or the IDB would not be forthcoming. The Bank would have the right to exercise appropriate remedies
if performance is not satisfactory.



- 31 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01   During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government of Brazil on the following:
(a)    MT/DNER to prepare and implement, or cause DERs to prepare and implement state
rehabilitation subprojects, enter into decentralization and delegation agreements with
participating states and participating DERs, and monitor implementation (paras. 3.05,
3.06 & 4.09 (a));
(b)    MT/DNER to cause the DERs to survey state networks, prepare expenditure programs in
accordance with criteria and methodologies set forth in the OM, and implement
environmental manual (paras. 3.06 & 4.09 (a) (v) & (vi));
(c)    DNER to strengthen its concession department, contract concession specialist firm, and
carry out concession studies and, if necessary, a contingency maintenance program (paras.
3.07, 3.08, 4.07 & 4.09 (b));
(d)    presentation of DNER's annual rehabilitation and maintenance programs and related
policies, criteria and implementation targets (paras. 3.09, 4.09 (c));
(e)    DNER to prepare and implement a maintenance management plan and a strategic plan
(paras. 3.10, 4.09 (c));
(f)    DNER to establish CPMS, to contract the PMC, and to cause the participating DERs to
establish subproject management units and systems (paras. 3.10 & 4.09 (d));
(g)    Borrower's guarantee for counterpart funds, for concession contingency maintenance plan,
and retroactive financing arrangements (paras. 3.08 & 3.12);
(h)    DNER to present a resettlement policy framework and the environmental specifications of
the concession tender documents (paras. 3.15 & 4.09 (c));
(i)    DNER organizational arrangements for project execution (paras. 4.05 - 4.07);
(j)    DER organizational arrangements for subproject execution (para. 4.08);
(k)    Project Implementation Action Plan and related indicators and targets (para. 4.09 &
Annex 8, Table 1);
(1)    procurement arrangements (paras. 4.10 - 4.12);
(m)   disbursement, account and auditing arrangements (paras. 4.13-4.14);
(n)    monitoring and reporting arrangements (paras. 4.15-4.18); and
(o)    mid-term review of project implementation (para. 4.19).



- 32 -
5.02   The following is a condition of loan effectiveness:
(p)    DNER to contract the project management consultant (para. 4.06);
5.03   The following are conditions of disbursements under state rehabilitation subprojects:
(q)    a decentralization agreement with the participating state, satisfactory to the Bank, has
become effective (para. 3.05); and, in case of delegated subprojects,
(r)    a delegation agreement with the participating DER, satisfactory to the Bank, has become
effective (para. 3.06);
(s)   the participating DER has adopted the OM and the EM (para. 4.03); and
(t)   the participating DER has established the SMU and the CPMS (para. 4.08).
5.04   Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$300 million. The
terms would be 15 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate
for single currency loans in US dollars.



- 33 -                                Annex 1
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Bank Experience with Highway Projects in Brazil
A. Highway Project Summaries
1.    The Bank approved twelve loans for highways and three loans for feeder roads in Brazil
between 1968 and 1991. This section provides a summary for each project.
2.    The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October 1968) was instrumental in
setting the framework for Bank involvement in the Brazilian transport sector. Together with this loan,
the Bank reached agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
elements, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road-user charges, the reduction of railway
deficits and the improvement of port administration. The project included detailed engineering,
construction, paving, and supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states. The
project was successfully completed in September 1972, about a year later than expected. The delay
was mainly due to design changes and problems with earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some
sections, total project costs were lower than anticipated. The audit reestimated rates of return for the
roads were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates; they ranged from 14%
to 40% (PPAR No.626 dated Feb.12, 1976).
3.    The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970) included
construction and paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies
of 3,256 km. The project provided technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory
capabilities of DNER. Problems were encountered during construction, and delays occurred. As a
result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two years behind schedule. Final cost was
about 6% above appraisal estimates. The audit rate of return for the project was higher than the
appraisal estimate (36% as against 27%), mainly because of much higher-than-anticipated traffic
growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely by Brazilian firms under strict
specifications and quality controls agreed with the Bank. The experiences gained by the Brazilian
construction industry and DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as
demonstrated by the performance of follow-up projects (PPAR No. 644, dated June 21, 1977, PCR
dated October 27, 1976).
4.    The Third and Fourth Highway Projects (Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April 1972, and
Loan 854-BR, US$51 million, August 1972) included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervision. Civil works in both projects faced the same problems encountered
during the Second Highway Project. Completion of both projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at
the end of 1977. Underestimation of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973 and 1974
caused substantial cost overruns. Reestimated rates of return, however, were considerably above
appraisal estimates: 45% and 29% against 25% and 16% respectively. The PPAR noted that
inadequate detailed engineering for these two projects contributed to substantial quantity and cost
increases. It also pointed out deficiencies in traffic forecasting (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No.
2571 of June 8, 1979).



- 34 -                                Annex 1
5.    The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR, US$110 million, January 1975) set the basis for
Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening. The project included: (a)
construction and upgrading of 612 km of federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical assistance to DNER to
improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing Station Program; (d) detailed engineering for
road construction, upgrading and rehabilitation; and (e) feasibility studies for three new highways
totaling about 900 km. The project achieved its original objective in upgrading, and increasing the
capacity of, congested road links included in the project, although these works were completed with
about three years' delay and substantial cost overuns. The technical assistance achieved less than
expected, partly because the systems developed by consultants were too complicated and did not take
local conditions into account. Largely because of inadequate preparation, the weigh bridge program
was delayed and only partially completed, with significant cost overuns (PCR dated May 8, 1985).
6.    The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55 million, March 1976) was
conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's National Economic Development Bank, BNDES, to
finance about 50 % of subloans extended by BNDES to state DERs or municipal road consortia to carry
out secondary and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production.  Subprojects were
prepared and evaluated in accordance with agreed and well-publicized criteria embodied in a manual.
The loan helped finance 18 subprojects in 12 States comprising 5,400 km of roads and 110 separate
bridges. The project was slow in starting because beneficiaries took more time than anticipated to
establish their working relationships with BNDES. Implementation has also been slowed by financial
problems, which were resolved through the Bank's Special Assistance Program, by providing
supplementary subloans under the Second Feeder Road Project. The project was completed in mid-
1984, with a three-and-a-half year delay (PCR dated June 14, 1985, PPAR dated September 23, 1986).
7.    The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August 1978) continued to
support rehabilitation and maintenance. The project included (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and detailed engineering for another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a
highway maintenance and rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Station Program; and (d) consulting services to the Road Research Institute (IPR) to carry out research
on pavement overlay design and to GEIPOT to complete research on the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model.  Project implementation was delayed from the start,  because of lack of
counterpart funding, until mid-1983 when the Bank's Special Action Program, by increasing
disbursement percentages, helped the project to be completed in the second half of 1985. The weigh
bridge program remained incomplete. DNER's pavement research program, completed in late 1984,
introduced a new standard for pavement overlay design. DER-Parana's maintenance operations were
successfully strengthened (PCR dated March 20, 1987, PPAR dated November 16, 1989).
8.    The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million, June 1979) was to
provide continuity to the program initiated by the First Project and implemented through BNDES. The
19 subprojects in 13 states together consisted of the construction or improvement of 255 road links
totaling about 4,900 km, and of the construction of 370 bridges. Lack of counterpart funds slowed
down implementation in 1982 and 1983. The Bank's Special Assistance Program helped resolve the
funding problems. Part of the loan was used to provide supplementary financing under the first
Project. The project was completed and the loan fully disbursed by the end of 1986, in line with the
appraisal schedule. By requiring economic analyses and appropriate engineering standards, the first
and second projects helped state road administrations improve planning, engineering and management
of feeder roads programs country-wide. But maintenance capabilities remained weak in many states
(PCR dated November 6, 1989, PPAR No. 9367 dated February 15, 1991).



-35-                                  Annex 1
9.    The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR, US$240
million, November 1981), consisted of: (a) construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about
1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway, BR-364; (b) strengthening of Rondonia State Highway
Department (DER-RO); and (c) construction and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads in the States
of Rondonia and Mato Grosso through BNDES' feeder roads program.  The construction of the
Northwest Highway, after initial delays due to inadequate funding, accelerated in the second half of
1983 with the Bank's Special Action Program, and was completed in late 1984, one year ahead of
schedule. The program for strengthening the State Highway Department of Rondonia made little
progress due to delays in contracting the consultants and to subsequent suspension of disbursements for
delays under environmental components of the Northwest Region Development Program. The feeder
road component was completed on schedule. In mid-1985, the Bank agreed to re-allocate about US$60
million of loan savings for an emergency flood rehabilitation program in six Northeastern states, which
was completed by mid-1987. The highway project upgraded the region's transport system but the
Northwest Development Program, of which the project was only one component, failed in its basic
objective of harmoniously developing the region. The improvement of the highway and feeder roads
and failures or delays in implementing the environmental and indigenous people protection programs
under the associated projects led to a destructive and disordely colonization process, with long-term
damage to the environment, encroachment onto Amerindian and natural reserves, and concentration of
migrants in ill-equipped urban settlements (PCR dated April 15, 1991).
10.   The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million, December 1982)
supported the continuation of the National Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES, including
strengthening of project management. The project was to build or improve 8,000 km of roads at a cost
of about US$500 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, and to improve the maintenance capability of
subborrowers through technical assistance for advisory services and training of staff . The project was
implemented expeditiously, within the original timeframe. Physical results exceeded targets by more
than 20% (Almost 10,000 km of roads were built or improved, 70% in the low income states in the
North, Northeast and Center-West regions. The three feeder roads projects helped develop state
capacities for preparing, evaluating and implementing feeder roads programs on the basis of
appropriate selection criteria and methodologies, and technical norms and standards.  BNDES
strengthened its management of the program, but the fiscal reform and decentralization introduced with
the 1988 constitution led to the termination of the program (PCR dated June 11, 1993).
11.   The Federal Highways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million, June 1984) supported
DNER's 1984-1987 Investment Program, including highway rehabilitation, road safety, training of
DNER and state highway maintenance personnel, and technical assistance for a pavement management
system, an equipment management system, and highway research studies.  Implementation was
expeditious, despite DNER budget cuts on several occasions.  Physical targets of highway
rehabilitation were exceeded by one-fifth. Procurement led to lower-than-expected bid prices but
subsequent contract modifications led to increased costs. The impact of road safety investments was
difficult to judge because of the absence of monitoring. The training program for the DERs was
successful, but DNER gave priority to physical investments over technical assistance, which had
minimum results (PCR dated June 15, 1992).
12.   The Sao Paulo State Highway Management Project (Loan 2830-BR, US$174 million, June
1987) comprised: (a) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance works on about 5,100 km of state
highways; (b) equipment rehabilitation; (c) training of highway staff; and (d) technical assistance for
transport sector policy, planning and operations, pavement and bridge management systems, and road
research. The project started only in July 1988 due to administrative difficulties for loan signing. It



- 36 -                                Annex 1
made good progress until mid-1991, but remained virtually stalled until early 1995 due to the serious
financial difficulties of the state. Implementation resumed in 1995, after the state government cleared
significant arrears owed to contractors and the Bank extended the closing date to December 1995. The
scope of the project was reduced, and about US$32 million was canceled from the loan. In spite of the
implementation difficulties, 4,000 km of roads were rehabilitated, reducing the portion of the network
in poor condition from about 40% to 6%, and the institutional component was substantially completed
at closing (PCR dated October 25, 1996).
13.   The Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR, US$310 million,
February 1990, closed December 31, 1996) helped redefine the federal highway network, restructure
the national highway department, rehabilitate and maintain highways in major transport corridors,
improve sector policy formulation and strategic planning, and develop and improve compliance with
environmental standards in the transport sector.  Project starting was delayed by modifications
requested by the incoming government and approved by the Board. Implementation was affected by
Government stabilization efforts and consequent insufficient counterpart fund transfers.   But
implementation improved after the Bank increased disbursement percentages and canceled US$40
million from the loan in early 1995. The appraisal targets for the works were met or exceeded. The
policy and institutional component, which had been affected by the numerous changes of sector
administration, was also succesfully completed (draft PCR dated May 15, 1997).
14.   The State Highway Management Project (Loans 3547-BR and 3548-BR, US$88 million,
December 1992) is helping rehabilitate and maintain the state highway networks in the states of Santa
Catarina and Alagoas, and to strengthen the state highway agencies' (DERs) planning, contract
maintenance and environmental management capabilities.   Both the physical and institutional
components of the Santa Catarina subproject have progressed satisfactorily in spite of the recent
financial difficulties of the state. But progress under the Alagoas subproject has been unsatisfactory.
Because of the financial difficulties of the State and insufficient counterpart funding in 1994-95, a
number of rehabilitation contracts had to be terminated. The subproject was restructured in early
1996, increasing disbursement percentages and cancelling US$18 million from the loan. The reforms
introduced by the state government in 1996 have enabled the works to be re-tendered and re-initiated in
accordance with the available counterpart funds. The institutional component, which initially made
slow progress due to the numerous changes of administration, is now progressing satisfactorily.
15.   The State Highway Management II Project (Loans 3713-BR, 3714-BR & 3715-BR, US$220
million,  March 1994) is assisting the states of Piaui, Tocantins and Maranhao to develop and
implement efficient road expenditure programs, with adequate priority to maintenance, and to
strengthen the planning, contract maintenance and environmental management capabilities of the states'
highway agencies. Project startup has been satisfactory in the three states. The monetary reform
introduced with the Plano Real in mid-1995, however, has substantially affected the financial capacities
of the states, particularly Piaui and, to a lesser extent, Maranhao. Implementation targets at the end of
1995 were substantially met in Tocantins. But the two subprojects in Piaui and Maranhao were
restructured in November 1995 in line with the states' financial capacities, reducing the upgrading and
paving targets while keeping maintenance and rehabilitation targets, canceling US$18 million from
each loan, and increasing disbursement percentages. With this project restructuring and the reform
measures introduced by the state governments, the performance of the two subprojects substantially
improved in 1996 and is now satisfactory.



-37-                                    Annex 1
B. Lessons Learned
15.    The following important lessons learned from the experience with the above projects have been
incorporated into the design and preparation of the proposed project.
16.   Counterpart Funding, Budgets. The counterpart funding problems have been recurrent and
have adversely affected the implementation of the physical investment components of most projects.
Government efforts to contain public expenditures in order to achieve important economic stabilization
objectives have been the main reasons. Despite the recent measures taken by the Government to give
the highest priority to Bank-financed projects, insufficient and unreliable counterpart transfers from the
Treasury have continued to affect project implementation. In addition, the budgetary process, which
enables the Congress to change individual allocations for specific road sections, often results in
inconsistent budgets and inefficient execution of contracts. In order to substantially reduce the impact
of such unreliable counterpart transfers on the execution of individual contracts and on project
implementation, disbursements could be made in quasi-tranches against eligible expenditures after
compliance with agreed physical and institutional implementation monitoring targets.
17.   Project Implementation Plan and Monitoring Indicators. With the exception of the recently
approved state highway management projects, the projects did not include detailed implementation
plans, appropriate indicators and targets, and computerized project management and monitoring
systems to effectively monitor project implementation, progress in fulfilling the development
objectives, and the performance of the implementing agency. As a consequence, project managers and
Bank supervision missions were unable to identify implementation delays and issues early enough to
seek timely remedial measures. The lack of detailed implementation plans, monitorable indicators and
adequate and timely project information was a major factor in the substantial delays encountered in
subproject/ investment engineering and procurement of contracts.
18.    Expenditure Planning and Progranmning, Network Management. The investments financed
under the highway and the feeder road projects have been justified in economic terms, and technical
solutions have been optimized at the level of each individual investment. But technical solutions and
priorities have not been optimized and justified from a network management perspective, taking into
account existing resource constraints. This shortcoming has led to substantial over-dimensioning of
individual investments, to the postponment of other essential expenditures, in particular maintenance,
and, as a consequence, to the deterioration of the overall network condition. It is therefore essential to
assess and compare alternative expenditure policies and strategies in order to optimize highway
expenditure programs and individual project investments on the basis of appropriate technical and
economic criteria and budget constraints. Experience was gained with the recent state highway projects
in carrying out regular network condition surveys, in establishing a network database, and in
optimizing expenditure strategies and programs using the Highway Design & Maintenance Standards
(HDM) Model.
19.   Maintenance by Contract.  Experience with earlier highway and feeder roads projects in
Brazil and worldwide has shown that highway maintenance, when carried out by force account, is
generally ineffective. In addition to the difficulties in ensuring the necessary and timely transfers of
resources from the Treasury, government road agencies have demonstrated their inability to effectively
manage the numerous activities, the personnel and the equipment required for highway maintenance.
Since the early 1980s, DNER has contracted out the (routine) maintenance of the federal highway
network, except for highways in Amazonia; the experience has been successful in ensuring the
effective delivery of routine maintenance services at reasonable costs.  The forms of contracts,



-38-                                   Annex 1
however, still require heavy supervision from DNER. New forms of (performance) contracts, which
would pay contractors on the basis of the level of service maintained rather than of the quantities of
work performed, could be more effective and should be tested. Also, the state highway agencies, most
of which still maintain their networks by force account, should now initiate contract maintenance
programs.
20.   Design and Implementation of Institutional Components. Borrowers and executing agencies
have generally given higher priority to physical investments than to the institutional components,
which often fell short of achieving their objectives. The frequent changes in sector administrations and
management personnel have been an important factor. But the scope and timetable of the agreed
institutional components have often been over-optimistic, and have underestimated the difficulties of
the reforms. In order to be effective, the institutional components of projects need to be focused on
addressing a few essential issues. Their design and timetables should be realistic, and based on a
detailed analysis of the capacities of the organizations to implement them. If possible, disbursements
for the physical components should be linked to progress made under the institutional components.
21.   Environmental Management.   The experience with the Northwest Region Development
Program showed that highway and feeder roads investments can lead to significant long-term
environmental damage by enabling destructive and disorderly colonization and economic activities, if
the necessary measures to prevent or mitigate the potential adverse impacts are not promptly
implemented. Also, road works can have more direct adverse environrnental effects, such as increased
soil erosion. The ongoing Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project has been successful in
developing and disseminating Environmental Guidelines for the transport sector and for the highway
subsector, and in training federal transport sector staff.  The recent State Highway Projects are
effectively helping participating state governments to establish appropriate road environmental
management capabilities. These efforts should be continued and expanded countrywide.



- 39 -                                 Annex 2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Federal Highway Maintenance Strategy and Program
A. Introduction
1.    Too often in the past, subprojects of road rehabilitation for the federal highways were designed and
implemented without due consideration to the overall needs of the network and to DNER budget
constraints. Even though the rehabilitation works carried out during the past fifteen years were supported
by economic analysis confirming that intemal rates of return of at least 12% were obtained, their priority
was not always demonstrated and the technical solutions selected did not necessarily correspond to
standards yielding the maximum net present value to the community, and even less so in the context of a
global analysis encompassing the entire highway network, under resource constraints. Generally, the
adoption of over-designed subprojects, sometimes associated with premature execution, absorbs a great
deal of available funds, leaving little resources for the rest of the network. The result, in the long term, is a
dramatic increase in the proportion of roads in poor condition, and thus in transport costs.
2.    In order to formulate the most appropriate policy, i.e., a suitable set of technical standards for the
maintenance of the federal highway network and to design a cost-effective program of implementation
which assigns priorities and cost thresholds to the execution of rehabilitation works, an economic analysis
using the HDM/EBM models was performed. This analysis included the entire federal network to remain
under federal jurisdiction and the portion to be devolved to the states and a realistic level of budget
constraints over the next five years. The main objective was to derive from the analysis the best strategy
consistent with attainable budget levels. The strategy would comprise: (a) a catalogue of technical
solutions adapted to road conditions and traffic, to be applied throughout the project, associating with each
solution with an average (maximum) unit cost, and (b) a phasing of execution of the program which would
be in line with the priorities as defined by the economic models. During the implementation of the project,
a reasonable degree of consistency would be sought between the standards and unit costs based upon
engineering studies, and the technical solutions derived from the HDMtEBM network evaluation.
B. Network Analysis
3.    Comprehensive network monitoring and analyses have been carried out twice in the past by DNER:
in 1986 and in 1992. In order to build the decentralization project upon more reliable and updated
information, an extensive program of road measurements was carried out between June 1995 and March
1996, with the assistance of DNER regional districts supplemented by six consulting firms. Practically, the
entire length of the paved federal highways, i.e., about 51,000 km, was divided among the five regions and
thoroughly surveyed.
4.    The surveys included:
(i)   the assessment, on a continuous basis, of the geometric and structural characteristics of the roads,
as well as the surface defects observed on the pavements, i.e., proportion of cracking or raveling



- 40 -                                  Annex 2
and areas of potholes, assigning to each km a rating or note of between I and 5 (5 being excellent,
and 1 very poor);
(ii)   the measurement, also on a continuous basis, of the international roughness index (IRI) of each
homogeneous section of the network, using calibrated response-type equipment;
(iii)   deflection measurements within 1,500 one-km-long segments of the network, selected as being
representative of the condition of homogeneous links;
(iv)   traffic counts at about 250 sites located so as to supplement the information collected from other
major locations where DNER systematically carries out traffic volume censuses.
5.     All the information obtained from the surveys was compiled into a computerized data bank
designed to enable statistical evaluations to be made, and to calculate the weighted average values of the
parameters characterizing each cell of a matrix comprising groups of homogeneous links, in terms of
traffic, roughness, and structural capacity. Table 3 of this annex indicates how the federal network was
classified as a function of traffic volume, surface condition, and deflection.
C. Alternative Maintenance Strategies
6.     Annex 7, on the project's economic analysis, presents the detailed methodology used for the
definition of the various maintenance options taken into account in the economic evaluation. Broadly
speaking, the following alternatives were selected as being representative:
(i)   for roads in good condition (IRI<3), patching and simple resurfacing using surface treatments or
slurry seals, and also a thin asphalt concrete overlay whenever traffic volume is high and pavement
strength low;
(ii)   for roads in fair condition (3 < IRI <4.5), asphalt concrete overlays with thickness varying from 3
to 8 cm were analyzed and compared to surface recycling techniques; and
(iii)  for roads in poor condition (IRI> 4.5), policies included medium to thick asphalt concrete overlays
(from 5 to 12 cm), or deep recycling followed by a new wearing course, as well as a complete base
and wearing course reconstruction.
7.     The economic benefits of postponing works execution were also analyzed though the adoption of
condition thresholds triggering execution (area of cracking, or roughness level), or simply by setting the
year of execution as year 1, year 3, year 5 or year 7. Altogether, twelve maintenance policies were tested,
namely:



- 41 -                                  Annex 2
Table 1: Proposed Rehabilitation Techniques
Patching
Single surface treatment, or Slurry seal
Double surface dressing
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 3 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 4 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 5 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 6 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 7 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 8 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 10 cm thick
Asphalt Concrete Overlay, 12 cm thick
Recycling of upper 5 cm of pavement followed by a full-width A.C.
overlay of 4 to 12 cm thick (when ADT>5,000)
Reconstruction of base, including 5 to 10 cm A.C. wearing course
Reconstruction of base with double-surface dressing wearing course
D. Budget Constraint Levels and Phasing of the Economic Analysis
8.     During the last ten years, resources for the maintenance and rehabilitation of the federal highway
network remained consistently in the order of US$100 million and US$350 million respectively, for a total
network of about 50,000 km. Accordingly, and consistent with past experience and future expectations,
optimum strategies were defined for a wide and realistic range of budget constraint scenarios likely to occur
within the next five years. This time, however, a reduced network was considered comprising a total length
of about 38,000 km of which 29,000 km are to remain under federal jurisdiction, and the remaining 9,000
km are to be transferred to the States. About 2,500 km which are already under contract and 11,300 km
pertaining to the concession program were excluded from the analysis. The economic analysis was carried
out in two phases. In the first phase, the entire 38,000 km long network was analyzed using various
constraint scenarios for rehabilitation, i.e., US$200, 225, 250, 275, and 300 million per year, over the next
four to five years. Resources for routine maintenance were kept unconstrained, representing between
US$80 and 85 million per year (i.e., US$2,100/km/year). This preliminary analysis helped determine the
optimum global budget level for that network, considering DNER financial constraint. But, in order to
arrive at a feasible program and an acceptable budget sharing ratio between DNER and state-transferred
networks, it proved necessary to incorporate the results of the discussions held with the States. The
negotiations had indeed indicated that decentralization would be successful only if it involved, before the
devolution, the rehabilitation of about 4,000 km of roads. Thus, the second phase of the analysis aimed at
determining the amount of resources that would need to be applied to the network to be transferred in order
to achieve a rehabilitation program involving about 4,000 km of roads. Various pairs of budget constraint
ratios (DNER/state-transferred networks) - all within the previously determined optimum global budget -
were tested until a satisfactory solution was obtained.
E. Strategy Formulation
9.     Catalog of Structures for Pavement Rehabilitation. The first phase of the economic evaluation
using the HDM/EBM models with various budget constraint scenarios indicated that the best strategy to be



- 42 -                                  Annex 2
applied for the 38,567 km-long network, considering its current maintenance condition and traffic,
corresponds to US$225 million annually over the next 4 to 5 years (excluding routine maintenance and
capacity enhancement on the paved network, as well as the maintenance of the unpaved portion of the
network). The second phase of the economic evaluation indicated that the US$225 million should be best
shared in the proportion of US$175 million for the 29,335 km long network to remain under federal
jurisdiction, and US$50 million for the 9,232 km long network to be devolved to the states. Implementing
this scenario would reduce the proportion of roads in poor condition from the current 10% to 2% in the
year 2001, and keep that proportion relatively constant during the subsequent ten to fifteen years, provided
that subsequent annual resource allocations are maintained to a minimum level of about US$175 million.
The selected strategies for each network can best be represented by the catalog of structures shown in
Tables 3 and 4 hereafter. The catalogs give the optimum technical solutions to be applied as a function of
traffic level, pavement surface roughness and pavement structural condition (deflection). They also define
the maximum average unit cost per km for each solution as well as the most suitable year (between 1 and
7) in which the execution of the works should take place. As was stated earlier, care will be taken during
project implementation to ensure that the technical solutions proposed from detailed rehabilitation studies
do not depart significantly from the standards and costs recommended by the network evaluation study,
since this would greatly modify the financial evaluation and economic returns of the program (section G).
10.    Capacity increase.  In addition to defining the most satisfactory structural designs for the
resurfacing and strengthening of existing pavements, the HDM Model yielded the following guidelines for
capacity enhancement:
(i)   the construction of a third lane to upgrade a two-lane bi-directional road is economically justified
whenever: (a) the traffic level lies in the range of 5,000 to 7,500 vehicles per day, (b) the
proportion of heavy commercial vehicles exceeds 30%, and (c) the unit cost of the upgrading is less
than about US$200,000 per km; and
(ii)   the upgrading of a two-lane road to a dual carriageway is economically feasible whenever: (a) the
traffic volume in both directions exceed about 8,000 vehicles per day, and (b) the unit cost of
construction of the second carriageway remains below US$300,000 to US$350,000 per km. For
much higher unit cost of dualization, traffic thresholds would be substantially higher than 10,000
vehicles per day.
Moreover, climbing lanes are justified whenever: (a) the gradient is more than 3%, (b) the volume of
commercial vehicles exceed 300 per day, and (c) the length of the climbing lane is more than about 300 m.
11.    Maintenance policy for unpaved roads.
The strategy for maintaining the 15,000 km of federal    Table 2: Frequency of Grading and Regraveling for
unpaved roads was based on studies carried out in               Unpaved Roads
Brazil, using also the HDM model and representative                No. of    Time interval between
unit costs for routine maintenance, including balding   Average daily traffic  grading/year  regraveling (years)
and regraveling. The following optimum frequencies  <25              2              7
of grading and regraveling are recommended as a     25-50            4             6
50-100          8              5
function  of average daily traffic. Furthermore,    100-200          1 2            4
whenever traffic volumes exceed about 300 vehicles  >200            24              3
per day, consideration should be given to upgrading
and paving in order to reduce maintenance and
vehicle operating costs.



- 43 -                                                                      Annex 2
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 3: Catalog of Rehabilitation Solutions for Federal Network
Traffic            IRI < 2.5                   2.5 IRI < 3            3 <IRI <3.5                          3.5< IRI 4.5           IRI '4.5
ADT    D<OASmm,  D'0.45rmrn   1D<0.45 mm           D >0.45mm        DcO.45nDn 0.45mm   ID<0.45mm               D  0.4Smm       0<045m-   0>0.45mm
Pavements with Asphalt Concrete Waring Course
0 1200        RM            RM             RM             RM             RM              RM           3cm              RM =                       m
1200-1800      RM            RM              RM             RM           Icm            3cm             3cm            3cm            cm           Gem
1B00-2300  RM   RM        RM             RM           ~~~ ~~3cm       3cm            3cm            3cm            acm           acm
1800-2300      RM            RM              RM             RM                         U3        m                     3cm            4cm           rnt
2300-3100      RM             RM             RM             RM           3cm             3cm            3cm             cm            *cm          4cm
3100-4800      RM             RM             RM             RM           4cm             cm             5cm            cm             Scm          Scm
480010000       RM            R M            R M            R M            cmemcmcmcm                                                               Ccc
> 10000       RM             RM             RM             RM           5cm             5cm           Scm            acm             Scm          Scm
Pavements with Surface Dressing Wearing Course
01200        RM             RM             RM             RM             RM             RM              RM             RM           RM
Rcr OST
1200-1800      RM             RM             RM             RM             RM             RM             RM             RM            Scm           m
1800-3100      RM             RM             RM             RM                           4cm            5cm           5cm             cm            cm
Table 4: Catalog of Rehabilitation Solutions for Transferred Networks
Traffic             RI < 2.5                   2.5 <IRI <3            3 <tRI <3.5                           35 IRI <4.5           IRI > 45
ADT    D < 0.45 mmn    D>045mm      1<0.45mm       D>0.45mm        1D<0.45mm        D00.45mm  ID<0.45mm         D>0.45mm    ID.045mm   D-045mm
Pavements with Asphalt Concrete Wearing Course
<1200        RM             RM             RM           3                RM             RM            U3                                         RM
3cUrmnc                                                                    5cm
1200-1800      RM            RM              RM            --                            3-M           -3             3-             a'           -t
1200-1BOO   RM   RMRMS3cm  3cm   3cm         3cm             3cm 'cm                     acm
1800-2300      RM            RM              RM           3cm            3cm             3cm           3cm            3cm             cm           cm
2300-3100      RM             RM            3cm           3cm             3cm            3cm           3cm             3cm           4cm           5cm
3100-4800      RM             RM           scm            3        cm                    4cm           <cm             Scm           acm           acm
Pavements with Surtface Dressing Wearing Course
01200         RM            RM             RM           -S             DST             DST              RM             RM           RM            RM
1200-1800      RM             RM             RM             RM             RM             RM            m               RM           cm
1800-3100      RM             RM           3cm            3cm           4cm              cm             5cm            5cm           acm           5cm
Ltumnd          RM       Roubne Maintenance
Asphalt Concrete Overlay 3 cm Thck
C".       Recycing 5 Cm and place 4 cm A C Overlay
R c DST    Reconsctrucon vmth Double Surface Treatment Wearing Course
tST      Resuacing vdtt Sngle Sualace Treatnent
t D"T RescLwacing vAth Dotmie Surface Treatement



- 44 -                                  Annex 2
F. Multi-year Rehabilitation Program
12.    Based on the analyses performed, Table 5 shows for the selected strategy (US$225,000 per year)
the scope of the five-year program of road investments for the 38,567 km long highway system analyzed
both in terms of physical targets and total financial needs. The table spells out, year by year, the various
technical standards to be applied, their respective unit costs, and the lengths of the network over which they
will be implemented. As can be seen, the overall program is estimated to cost approximately US$1.2
billion and involves rehabilitation and/or resurfacing works over a cumulated length of 14,150 km, i.e.,
37% of the total network. About 3,800 km of rehabilitation pertain to the network to be transferred and
10,350 km belong to the network that will remain under federal jurisdiction. More specifically, the
program will comprise the execution of about:
766 km of surface-dressing works, at a cost of about US$ 10 million;
13,195 km of asphalt concrete overlays, at a cost of US$883 million;
188 km of reconstruction, at a cost of US$21 million; and
1,350 km of operational improvement, at a cost of US$120 million;
Excluding capacity enhancement, the total amount of investments in rehabilitation works would be US$914
million, i.e., US$225 million annually, and US$65,000/km. Regarding the network intended for concession
by DNER itself (about 4,000 km), contingency funds will be provided for, in case the concession program
takes longer to implement than expected. The assessment of the amount to be set aside was based on an
analysis of the condition of that network. The estimated value for the contingency fund is about US$100
million, representing the execution of a 3 cm thick asphalt concrete carpet on the portion of that network
which is in critical condition (about 1,000 km with IRI > 4). This work will help improve riding quality
and waterproofness.
G. First-Year Rehabilitation Program
13.   The first-year program, which is expected to start in late 1997, early 1998, was prepared on the
basis of the HDM economic evaluation. It represents the highest priority road sections which need
rehabilitation or resurfacing. The total length of this program is approximately 3,155 km. The program
would comprise between 40 and 60 homogeneous road segments covering most of the states but
predominantly the states of Bahia, Goias, Mato Grosso, Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande
do Sul, and Santa Catarina. About 76% in length are highways that will remain under federal jurisdiction;
the other 24% would be transferred to the states.
14.    Detailed engineering studies are presently available for nearly 50% of the first-year program and
the information was used to prepare rehabilitation designs that are consistent with the recommendations of
the Catalog of technical solutions and to carry out the economic evaluation. More detailed investigations
are under way for the remaining 1,500 km, and by June 1997 final designs will be available for the entire
length of the priority program.
15.   The 50% sample analyzed thus far, show that the majority of the road segments involved in the
first-year program were built some 25 years ago and strengthened or resurfaced about 15 years later, i.e.,
between 1985 and 1988. The pavements mostly consist of flexible structures with asphalt concrete
surfacing and granular base-course. They presently carry average daily traffic ranging generally between
2,000 and 5,000 vehicles. Usually cracked over more than 20% of their length, their current roughness



- 45 -                                  Annex 2
values average almost 7 IRI, reflecting their poor condition. As shown in Table 5, rehabilitation techniques
generally involve the placing of an asphalt concrete overlay having average thickness of between 4 and 8
cm, which will increase the pavement structural number to an acceptable figure of more than 4. The need
for further strengthening or resurfacing is only expected to occur after the next 10 to 15 years of service.
16.    Table 5 summarizes the main characteristics of the road sections forming part of the first-vear
program, along with the subproject economic evaluation carried out using the HDM model. For a total
length of 1,512 km analyzed, the investment cost amounts to approximately US$108 million (giving an
average unit cost per km of US$71,000). These investments yield intemal economic rates of return (IERR)
generally ranging between 50% and 250% (averaging 175%) with a total Net Present Value (NPV) of
US$1.5 billion. Sensitivity analyses showed that a 20% increase in rehabilitation costs or a 20% reduction
in benefits only marginally affect the IERR and NPV, usually by less than 20%. Rehabilitation costs would
have to multiplied by a factor of 24 or benefits would have to divided by a factor of 21 in order to reduce
the NPV to zero.
17.    The implementation schedule for the first-year federal highway program is shown in Annex 9
Bidding process is expected to start before July 1997, and works scheduled to begin around October-
November 1997 are expected to be completed 18 months latcr, i.e., towards the end of 1998.
H. Routine Maintenance Strategy and Program
18.    Historical background.  Prior to 1970, the   Evolution of Maintenance Execution Modalities
routine maintenance of the federal highway system was
carried out directly by DNER using its own personnel and  100%
equipment. However, because of the large maintenance
backlog accumulated over 20 years, as higher priority     Oc
was given to paving and new  construction, labor   3 60%                 gat
shortages and insufficient maintenance equipment in the   z  40%
field residencies made it impossible for DNER to cont'inue      20%)             
routine  maintenance  exclusively  by  force-account.   0%- _   +       _+    _ _ _ +:_
Beginning in 1971, in addition to reorganizing and           1965 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995
structuring a limited core of force-account unit, DNER                  Year
shifted its policy to maintenance by contract, and, where
appropriate, to delegation of these activities through
agreements with State Highway Departments, or exceptionally with the Army.  These efforts were
supported by the Bank from 1975 onwards. In 1990, the distribution between the three types of
maintenance were as follows: contract maintenance 60%, delegated maintenance 25%, and force-account
maintenance 15% of the total length of the federal network.
19.    Current maintenance policy. To a large extent, the 25 year experience with maintenance by
contract has been successful, and to-day 80% of the federal system (excluding 13,000 km of earth roads),
i.e., about 44,000 km, are being maintained through individual three-years contracts with private
contractors. The maintenance of the remaining 20% portion of the network is delegated to DERs (about
8,000 km), while the Army maintains some 2,000 km, mainly unpaved roads in the northem part of the
country. There are currently 250 on-going contracts with the private sector, each contract covering about
200 km of roads. The activities involved normally comprise drainage, clearing of right-of-ways, shoulder
repairs, pavement patching and occasionally limited overlay and resurfacing works.  By and large,



-46 -                                   Annex 2
individual contracts amount to approximately US$2 million over a three-year period, representing an
average cost per km and per year ranging from US$2,500 to US$5,000. The programs are prepared and
designed by the district residencies, through visual surveys of the road condition and estimates of the
quantities of works. The districts are also responsible for the supervision and monitoring of the activities
on site, with some support from DNER head-office personnel.
20.    Such admeasurement-type contracts, however, are becoming more and more difficult to manage,
not only in the preparation stage, but also during execution. Items to be quantified and measured for
payments sometimes reach 200 to 300 in number, and DNER lacks personnel to supervise efficiently the
quantity and quality of the works performed by the contractors on site. Therefore, there is a growing
tendency to measure and monitor on a sample basis with all the shortcomings and uncertainties that such a
system entails. The situation is further compounded by the deficiencies in resource allocations: not only
maintenance budgets tend to be insufficient, but activities are difficult to plan and program since resources
are released by the Treasury on an unpredictable basis.
21.    Proposed future maintenance modalities. The need was therefore felt to go one step further in
order to improve the system and to ensure better service to road users. Solutions had to be sought to the
problem of cumbersome measurements and supervision procedures by DNER, while attending the necessity
to bestow more responsibility and initiative to the contractors. To that effect, DNER has envisaged the
possibility of adopting performance-type contracts which are already being implemented with success in
Argentina, enabling to reduce considerably the work-force needed for preparation and supervision, while
allowing the contractors to be more creative and more directly involved in the design and quality control of
the maintenance program. One system concerns essentially routine maintenance and applies to roads in
good to regular condition. The other system, which integrates both rehabilitation and routine maintenance,
applies to small networks in regular to bad condition, necessitating some prior strengthening or resurfacing
works before routine maintenance can be effectively carried out. The first system would normally be
awarded for a period of 5 to 10 years. The contracts would define - not the type and quantities of works to
be executed and paid on a unit price basis - but rather a level of service to be obtained, as reflected for
example by the riding quality of the pavement, the presence and efficiency of drainage and safety features,
or the friendliness of the road immediate environment. Payments would be made on a km/month basis,
following regular inspections carried out to identify any deficiencies which, unless corrected within a given
time period, would give rise to penalties, that would be deducted from the payments to be made to the
contractors.  The integrated rehabilitation/maintenance system  comprises initially a rehabilitation
component which is paid once executed on a lump-sum basis, provided the final specified results are
complied with. The rehabilitated network would then be maintained according to the km/month system.
22.    Pilot Maintenance Program. As part of the proposed project, pilot schemes for performance-
based contract, comprising the above systems, will be carried out and are intended to be expanded to the
entire network, when proven successful. The first pilot scheme, the routine maintenance system, will be
implemented in each of the five regions of the country, and will involve a total network of about 2,000 km,
comprising individual sub-networks with length varying between 100 and 200 km each. These sub-
networks are currently being identified and surveyed by the district engineers and a technical assistance was
contracted to prepare bidding documents (including technical specifications), help evaluate proposals and
train DNER personnel in the monitoring of the program. It is expected that tendering would take place in
the third quarter of 1997, and works would start in late 1997. The second pilot scheme, the integrated
rehabilitation and maintenance system, will be developed and implemented once the first one is in operation,
and is therefore scheduled to begin in 1998.



- 47 -                                                          Annex 2
Table 5: First Year Rehabilitation Program
Sample Sub-Projects
Road              Section           From    To    Ext   Surf.        Traffc   Deslen   Total Cost                       Switchine Factor
Km     Km    Km    Thick  IRI  ADT    Rehab           USSM        NPV      IERR    Base Cost  Bene.
mm                 Solutlons*                           
BR-101/BA   Entr. BA-093/400 (Entre       65.6  131.4   65.8   60   8.0  3,730    05            7,980       80.4    122.8      14       14
Rios)/Entr. BA-515
(TeodSarnp.)
BR-10IBA   Entr. BA-515 (Teodoro        131.4 207.5   76.1   75   8.0  3,326    04             9,051       69.1     90.5      11       10
Sampaio)/Entr. BA-492
(Gov. Mang&)
BR-101/SC    Penha-Canal Marui           266.3  315.7   44.3   50   2.0  12,003    AS           2,033      100.3    140.7    100         10
BR-285/RS   Entr. BR-158 (p/Cruz         416.0  432.0    16.0  -50   3.5  4,800    04            1,188      15.2       85      17        17
AltayEntr. RS-155 (p/lsui)
BR-285/RS   Entr. RS-155 (p/Isui)/Entr.    456.8  463.7    6.9   50   3.4  4,800    04            512        6.5     92.6      18       20
RS-342(B)
BR-2851RS   Entr. RS-342(B)/RS-536(A)   463.7  498.9   35.2   50   2.9  4,175    04             2,027       20.8     58.7      11        10
BR-070/MT   Entr. BR                     524.7 605.7    81.0   20   2.4  2,983    A6            5,329       44.0     51.6      15       14
163(B)/364(ByEntr. MT-
160/370
BR-070/MT   Entr. BR-                    605.7  661.7   56.0   20   3.0  2,983    A6            3,153       33.2     81.8    23         25
163(B)/364(ByJacobina
BR-010/MT.  JacobinalEntr. BR-           661.7 731.9   70.2   20   2.3  2,983    04             3,627       32.7     54.3      12       11
.  174(AYMT-343
BR-1011BA   Entr. BA-233/Entr. BA-        35.5  65.6   30.1   40   3.4  3,266    R5              1,081      11.8     85.7      13       13
I  093/400
BR-364/RO   Div. MTlRO/Entr. RO-391        0.0  51.4   51.4   40   4.9   1,066    04            3,683        3.7     22.3      2         2
BR-364/RO   Entr. RO-391/Marco Rondon    51.4  110.0   58.6   25   4.6   1,066    04            4,234        2.3      18.4     2         2
BR-1631MT   Nova Muturn/Entr. BR-242    625.3  711.8    86.5   25   4.0  2,271    R5            9,366       46.9     55.4      7         7
BR-2851RS   Entr. RS-176/Entr. BR-       638.1  673.1    35.0   40   3.6  4,004    06           2,499       24.5     76.4      12       13
287(AY472
BR-259/ES   Entr. BR-101/Ac. Cotalina      0.0  51.0   51.0   20   5.0  3,237    08             3,126       71.5    223.7     52        50
BR-101/BA   Entr. BR-420/Entr. BA-       287.9  365.4   77.5   40   5.8  3,678    03            3,637       75.3    163.0    24         25
250(A)
BR-101/BA   Entr. BA-492/Entr. BA-420    207.5  287.9   80.4   40   5.9  3,678    05            2,803       80.5    304.1     50         50
BR-364/GO   Entr. BR-060(A)/Entr. GO-    192.7 259.3   66.6   20   7.2  2,041    05             2,351       47.2    210.2     30        33
050
BR-174/MT   Entr. MT-388(B)/Entr. MT-    163.9 221.9    58.0   20  11.5  2,983    07            4,743       61.7    222.0    IS          17
246(A)/473
BR-174/MT   Entr. MT-246(AY473/Rio       221.9  286.5   64.6   20  11.5  2,983    07            4,395      102.3    389.9     32        33
Sarare
BR-174/MT   RioSarare/CorregoDourado   286.5  358.8   72.3   20  11.5  2,983    07               5,600     124.5    388.8     33         33
BR-174/MT   Entr. BR-070(B)/Entr. MT-      0.0  46.2   46.2   20   9.0  2,983    07             3,434       89.7    372.9     38        33
173(A)
BR-174/MT   Entr. MT-173(A)/Porto         46.2  101.9   55.7   20  11.5  2,983    07            4,006       88.3    370.5     30        33
Espindiao
BR-174/MT   Port EspiridiaolEntr. MT-    101.9  163.9   62.0   20  11.5  2,983    07            5,304       92.5    298.3     24        25
248
BR-174/MT   Corrego Dourado/Entr. MT-   358.8 435.6   76.8   20  11.5  2,983    07              6,162      115.3    318.2     26        25
364(A)
BR-174/MT   Entr. BR-364(ARio l2de    435.6 490.9    55.3   20  11.5  2,983    05               4,127       74.7    245.7     22        20
Outubro
BR-174/MT   Padronal Div. MTIRO          490.9  523.9   33.0   20  11.5  2,983    04            2,396       39.0    194.6      18        17
1,512.5   32   6.7  3,442               107,847    1,553.9    175.5    24         21
(Total) (Avg) (Avg)  (Avg)               (Total)   (Total)   (Avg)   (Avg)    (Avg)
Note:
03, 04, 05, 06, 07,08 = Asphalt concrete overlay 3, 4, 5,6,7, 8 cm thickness, over 7.2 m wide
AS, A6            = Asphalt concrete overlay 5,6 cm thickness, laid full-width 10.2 m.
R5                = Reconstruction with 5 cn Asphalt Concrete wearing course



- 48 -                                  Annex 3
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Federal Highway Decentralization Program
1.    The 1988 Constitutional reform decentralized fiscal revenues and transferred all road user
charges to States and Municipalities without changing in parallel the distribution of responsibilities
among the three administrative levels. The federation was therefore left with a disproportionate share
of functional and financial responsibility, which became more and more difficult to assume as DNER's
annual budgets dramatically decreased from about US$3 billion to a current figure of about US$1
billion. The average annual expenditure of US$250 to US$300 million incurred over the last five
years for rehabilitation and maintenance is substantially below the level of resource allocations required
to properly maintain, strengthen and upgrade the 69,000 km forming the federal network. On the
other hand, most state governments would now accept to assume responsibility of part of the federal
network providing they receive either the funds needed for necessary rehabilitation works, if any, or
the roads in good condition.  In order to correct the imbalance between highway revenues and
expenditure responsibilities at the federal and state levels, it became obvious that the solution was to
reduce the size of the network under federal jurisdiction, devolving to the States all roads which are
not of national interest, while embarking simultaneously on a concession program which involves the
participation of the private sector.
2.     To that effect, and over the last five years, the Ministry of Transport has been actively
working at redefining the configuration of the road network that should remain under federal
jurisdiction. The criteria used to define the highways of national interest which would become the new
federal system were five-fold : (i) they connect the states' capitals and thus contribute to national
integration; (ii) they provide connections to other major modes of transport; (iii) they establish inter-
regional links; (iv) they ensure and fulfill national defense and safety purposes; and (v) they promote
international connections with neighboring countries. Based on these criteria, a new national highway
system was drafted in early 1995, which included a preliminary definition of the highways that would
remain federal and those which could be devolved to the states.
3.    Following the preliminary definition of the proposed new  national highway system, the
Ministry of Transport initiated in June 1995 intense negotiations with the state administrations and by
September 1995 arrived at a consensus regarding the proposed reclassification.  It was confirmed
during the negotiations that only highways in good condition, through rehabilitation when necessary,
would be transferred to the states. Draft legislation that would formalize the proposed reclassification
was then prepared and sent to the Congress on October 31, 1995. The configuration of the new federal
system sent for approval to Congress comprised approximately:
highways linking the states' capitals (17,200 km);
highways providing connections to other major modes of transport (4,100 km);
highways establishing inter-regional connections (13,800 km);
highways ensuring national defense purposes (1,000 km); and
highways promoting international connections (6,300 km).



- 49 -                                                 Annex 3
4.       Altogether, the proposed reclassification contemplates the devolution of about 17,500 km  to the
states, of which 12,500 km are paved. The new federal system which would incorporate also some
roads previously under state jurisdictions, would consist of about 50,000 km, of which 40,000 km are
paved and 10,000 km, essentially in the Northern region, are unpaved (Table 1). The total length of
the federal network would therefore be reduced by about 26%. If one also considers the concession
program, which aims to transfer about 10,000 km to private operators, DNER's network responsibility
would be reduced by a total of about 40%.
Table 1. Proposed Federal anid Transferred Networks (km)
Federal   Network                                     State  Networks             Transfer
to remain federal           to be transferred       to be                                    as % of
STATE             Paved   Unpaved   Total   Paved  Unpaved   Total   Rehab.   Paved    Unipaved    Total  StateNet.
NORTH
RONDONIA              1195      380      1575       0       140       140        0        163       4126      4289    3
ACRE                  298       862      1160       0         0         0        0         23        316       339    0
AMAZONAS              861      1307      2168       0       260      260         0        650        596      1246    20
RORAIMA                222      817      1039       0       213       213         0        59       1618      1677    13
PARA                  640      2881      3521       0       281      281         0       2666       4202      6868    4
AMAPA                  193      483       676       0       194       194        0         40        439       479    41
TOCANTINS              791      473      1264       0       407       407         0       878       6307      7185     6
NORTH-EAST
MARANHAO              1945      535      2480     426       305       731       26       1932       3100      5032    15
PIAUI                2009        71      2080      64       331       395       23       1457       4721      6178    6
CEARA                 1543        0      1543     454       206       660       177      3837       3370      7207    9
R. G. NORTE           952         0       952     348       185       532       88       2345       1189      3534    15
PARAiBA               919         2       921     303         0      303        83       1731       2615      4346    7
PERNAMBUCO            1907       72      1979     570        35       605      285       2678       2064      4742    13
ALAGOAS               683         0       683      43        49        91        9       1515        734      2249    4
SERGIPE                313        0       313       6         0         6        12      1524       1143      2667    0
BAHIA                3358       388      3746     929       441      1370      298       7275       7481    14756    9
SOUTI1-EAST
MINAS GERAIS         4971       117      5088    4311       555     4866      1571       8645      11492    20137    24
ESPIRITO              755         7       762       12        0        12        11      2337       2446      4783    0
SANTO
R. DE JANEIRO         1322       21      1343     260         0       260      253       2420       2400      4820    5
SAOPAULO              1107        0      1107      35         0        35       22      16551       2093    18644    0
SOUTII
PARANA                1727      117      1844    1481        87      1568      243       9608       2190    11798    13
S. CATARINA           1737      130      1867     382        13       395        2       2995       2779      5774    7
R. G. DOSUL          2773       223      2996    2383       133     2516       496       4120       4994      9114    28
CENTER-WEST
MATO GROSSO          2733       272      3005      27       664       691        0       1757      17548    19305    4
M. GROSSO SUL        2825       403      3227      87        81       168       45       1674       9995    11669      1
GOIAS                231:8      485      2853     357       334       691      139       5765      14077    19842    3
D. FEDERAL             165        0       165       0         0         0        0        573        726      1299    0
TOTAL               40311    10045    50356   12476        4912    17388      3783      85010    114761   199771    9
5.       The four states Minas Gerais, Rio  Grande do Sul, Parana, and  Bahia would  receive about
10,320 km, accounting for 60% of the total transfer. Individually, they would be transfered between
1,500 km and 4.800 km, representing between 13% and 28% of the total state networks under their



- 50 -                                   Annex 3
responsibility. In order to alleviate the impact of such transfers, the four states have prepared and
undertaken plans to concession a significant portion of the highways to be transferred, together with
state highways and sections which will remain under federal jurisdiction. The Federal Government has
recently delegated many of these highways to the states in order to enable them to invite bids for
concessions (Annex 4, section C). Of the remaining states, a group of about half would receive
between 300 and 600 km each, the other half receiving less than 200 km.
6.     The Transport Commission of Congress prepared an alternative proposal which consists of
distributing the federal network into two distinct networks: a "Rinter" network (Rede Interestadual e
Internacional de Estradas de Rodagem) which corresponds to the main inter-state, inter-regional and
international networks, and a "Complementary" system. The former would constitute the new federal
highway system to remain under federal jurisdiction, part of which may be either delegated to states
administrations or concessioned to the private sector. The total length of Rinter network, including
highways to be tendered out for concessions, is about 43,100 km of which 33,300 km are paved. The
proposed federal network would include inter-state highways (30,300 km), inter-regional connections
(5,300 km), and international links (7,500 km). The complementary network, totaling about 26,200
km (of which 18,000 km are paved) would still be administered by M.T./DNER, preferably through
delegations to States, Municipalities or the Federal district, until the final transfer occurs by agreement
between the Federal and the State Governments. Delegation to States or Municipalities would give
them also the right to either concession the highways or to directly recover tolls, the proceeds of which
would be used to maintain these highways and possibly adjacent feeder roads. The proposal has been
approved by the relevant commissions of the Congress and is expected to be presented to the Chamber
of Deputies and the Senate for final votes in the near future.
7.     Pending approval by the Congress of the new federal highway system, and in accordance with
the spirit of the draft legislation, a transitional step is being taken to initiate and speed up the
decentralization process. It entails the signing of decentralization agreements or protocols of intention
between the Ministry of Transport and the State Governments, aimed at defining the highway segments
to be transferred and the respective responsibilities of DNER and the states for the execution and
funding of the rehabilitation works and future maintenance of these highway segments. Four highway
decentralization agreements have been signed with the states of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul. Minas
Gerais and Bahia.  The agreements specify that responsibilities for the selected highway sections
would be transferred when the SNV Law is approved, or, for those sections which require
rehabilitation, after the completion of the works. In the event the SNV Law is not approved, the state
is committed to assume operation and maintenance responsibility for a period of at least ten years. The
Ministry of Transport has also delegated federal highway sections to the states of Parana, Rio Grande
do Sul, and Santa Catarina for their concessioning by the states (Annex 4).
8      The Federal and the state govermnents have agreed, in order to minimize the impact of the transfers
on the states' expenditure responsibilities, that highways would be transferred in good condition or that the
Federal Government would provide the resources necessary to rehabilitate those in poor condition. The
Ministry of Transport has negotiated and would enter into highway decentralization agreements with all
participating states in order to specify the respective responsibilities of the Federal and state governments
for the execution and financing of such rehabilitation works. DNER has negotiated and would enter into
delegation agreements with seven states (Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, Rio de Janeiro, Goias,
Bahia and Ceara) to delegate the execution of the rehabilitation works within agreed technical and financial
parameters. These seven states were selected on the basis of the size of the rehabilitation program in the
state and the capacity of the DER to implement it. The proposed project would assist the federal and the
state governments in effectively implementing such agreements.



- 51 -                              Annex 4
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Federal Highway Concession Program
A. Introduction
1.    In 1994, the Federal Government and DNER initiated the preparation of a highway concession
program. The objectives were to transfer the management and financing of existing federal highways
to private investors. A special concession unit was created within DNER to: (i) develop a consistent
program; (ii) analyse priority projects; and (ii) prepare tender documents and invite and evaluate bids;
In February 1995, the Congress passed a Concession Law, which specifies the procedures and criteria
for transferring public facilities and services, including highways, to private concessionaires. In the
course of 1995, DNER implemented the first phase of the program, which consisted of four highway
sections and the Rio-Niteroi bridge, which had already been tolled in the past (Table 1). All of them
required substantial initial rehabilitation works. The Rio - Sao Paulo, Dutra highway also required
additional capacity investments. All the five concessions, which total about 850 km in length, have
been contracted and are presently in operation (section B). On the basis of the experience with the first
phase, DNER initiated the preparation of the second phase of the concession program, which would
involve some 10,000 km of existing federal highways (sections C and D).
2.    In September 1996, however, the Congress passed another law (the Delegation Law), which
authorizes the Federal Government to delegate federal highways and other public infrastructure
facilities to states and municipalities for their subsequent concessioning. On the basis of this law,
some state governments, including Rio Grande do Sul, Parana, Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais, have
started developing and implementing highway concession programs, which combine both federal and
state highways. The Ministry of Transport, in line with the Government's decentralization objective,
and on the basis of the recent Delegation Law, has delegated federal highway sections totaling about
4,500 km to the first three states for concessioning. Negotiations are still underway with the state of
Minas Gerais for further delegations. DNER will be responsible for concessioning the remaining
highways sections included in the program, and for monitoring the concessioning of the delegated
highways (section E).  Other states, including Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, have prepared or
undertaken concession programs which essentially involve state highways.
3.    The DNER and the state programs have the same objectives: increasing road cost recovery
through tolls, and improving highway management through the private sector. Private concessionaires
would operate, rehabilitate and maintain the highways, and, in some cases, carry out and finance
investments, and would recover these costs from road users through tolls.  The governments or
highway agencies remain responsible for identifying candidate highways, defining initial works and
maintenance standards, calling for bids and evaluating proposals from prequalified investors, as well as
for supervising the concession contracts.  But the bidding procedures and bid evaluation criteria vary
from state to state. As an example, DNER has awarded the concessions to the pre-qualified bidders
who offered the lowest toll rates. Other criteria used are the highest price for the concession (state of
Sao Paulo) or the longest section of highway maintained (state of Rio Grande do Sul), both for a toll
rate set by the state.



- 52 -                                    Annex 4
B. Experience with the First Phase of the DNER Program
4.      DNER has completed the first phase of the program, which consisted of concessioning five
highway sections totaling about 850 km, including the Niteroi Bridge, the Dutra - Rio de Janeiro - Sao
Paulo highway, the Osorio - Porto Alegre highway, the Alem Paraiba-Teresopolis highway, and the
Juiz de Fora-Petropolis-Rio de Janeiro highway, which were already tolled in the past. The total
inivestments required on these five sections are estimated at about US$1.3 billion equivalent over the
concession period (Table 1).
Table 1 - Federal Highway Concession Program, First Phase
Concession          Length     Concession    Investment            Concession
(km)       period        Estimate              Stage
(years)    US$ Millions)
Rio-Niteroi Bridge       13.2        20             59               Signed 06/95
Osorio-Porto         112.3         20             48                Suspended
Alegre Highway
Rio de Janeiro-       179.7         25            323              Signed 10/95
Petr6polis-Juiz de Fora
Rio de Janeiro-       144.4         25            133              Signed 11/95
Teres6polis-Alem Paraiba
Rio de Janeiro-Sao Paulo-  406.8        25            770               Signed 10/95
Dutra Highway
5.      This first phase of the program suffered delays due to litigation by unsuccessful bidders and to
the unavailability of long-term private debt finance in Brazil. Four concessions are now in operation.
T'he Osorio - Porto Alegre concession has been suspended due to the financial difficulties of the
winning bidder. Although the success of a highway concession can only be assessed several years
after its opening to traffic, the following lessons have been learned from this first experience:
(a)  the financial analyses performed did not take into account the lack of long-term private finance
in Brazil, and the bidders were not requested to provide a thorough justification for their
financial proposals;
(b)   since concessionaires have been unable to secure private debt financing, except for small loans
guaranteed by the sponsors and for a relatively small IFC B loan currently being finalized for
the Dutra highway, the National Bank for Social and Economic Development (BNDES) had to
provide most of the necessary debt financing;
(c)   since the above sources of funds are limited, future concessions will have to be financed on a
limited recourse basis, and therefore to attract long term debt domestically and/or
internationally which, in certain cases, will require appropriate guarantees and effective
promotion;
(d)  the concessionaires selected are essentially civil works contractors, with the risk that they may
not be willing to operate the toll road during the entire concession period, after the main works
have been completed;



- 53 -                             Annex 4
(e) the concession contracts include detailed specifications for the works and services to be
provided by the concessionaire, which would require efficient control mechanisms; but DNER
has not yet organized its newly-created Concession Department to effectively supervise the
technical, financial, and operational aspects of the concessions.
6.    As a result of the above difficulties to secure private financing for toll roads, the Government
decided to dualize two important highways (Belo Horizonte - Sao Paulo, 450 km, and Sao Paulo -
Curitiba - Florianopolis, 250 km) with public funds and borrowings from the IDB, for subsequent
concessioning to private operators.
C. Proposed Federal Highway Concession Program
7.    The experience developed under the first phase is being incorporated into the preparation of the
subsequent phases of the program; in particular with regard to the selection of the highway sections for
concessioning, and to the sharing of the various risks between the Government and the concessionaires.
8.    A consulting firm has been appointed to analyze the entire federal highway network and to
identify the highways which could be concessioned on the basis of sound technical, economic and
financial criteria. The necessary rehabilitation and maintenance works and capacity investments were
estimated on the basis of the results of the network condition and traffic surveys. The economic
evaluation was conducted using the Bank's HDM III model. The financial analysis led to preliminary
estimates of the financial rates of return on the sponsors' equity contributions for each of the proposed
concessions. These analyses were used to prepare a priority list of highway sections, totaling about
12,000 km, for which concessioning was found to be feasible.
9.    In line with the Federal Government's decentralization objective, and on the basis of the
recently-approved Delegation Law, the Ministry of Transport decided to delegate the responsibility for
concessioning federal highways to those state governments which have adequate capabilities. It is
expected that, by combining federal highway sections with state highway sections, the state
governments could offer more efficient and attractive concession packages.  Such delegation
agreements have already been signed with the states of Parana, Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina.
The total length of the sections delegated to the three states is about 5,000 km. Negotiations are still
underway with the state of Minas Gerais, which could lead to the delegation of a number of sections
totalling up to 3,000 km.
(a)    Santa Catarina State Concession Program
10.   The state of Santa Catarina has prepared a highway concession program, which consists of
concessioning five networks totalling about 1,470 km, of which about 520 km are federal highways
and 950 km are state highways. The Ministry of Transport has delegated to the state two highway
sections totalling about 520 km (Table 2).
Table 2. Federal Highway Sections Delegated to the State of Santa Catarina
Hi2hwav No.   Section                                                            Len2th
BR-280      Porto S. Fco. do Sul - Mafra                                        164.3
BR-470      Div. RS/SC - Navegantes                                             355.3
Total                                                                          519.6



- 54 -                                Annex 4
(a)    Parana State Concession Program
11.    The state of Parana has prepared a highway concession program, which consists of
concessioning a network of about 2,030 km, of which about 1,680 km are federal highways and 350
kmn are state highways. The Ministry of Transport has delegated to the state 14 highway sections
totalling about 1,786 km (Table 3).
Table 3. Federal Highway Sections Delegated to the State of Parana
Highway No.   Section                                                                 Length
BR-369      Ent. BR-153 (Divisa SP/PR) - Acceso Oeste a Cambe                         169.8
BR-369      Acceso Oeste a Cambd - Entr. BR-376(B) (Jandaia do Sul)                    61.0
BR-369      Entr. BR-158(A)/272(B)/487(A) (Campo Mourao) 277/467 (Cascavel)           171.6
BR-376      Divisa PR/SP/MT - Acceso pl Paranavai                                     102.8
BR-376      Acceso p/ Paranavai - Entr. BR-369(A)/466(A) (Jandaia do Sul)             114.6
BR-376      Entr. BR-369/466 (Apucarana) - Entr. BR-277/BR-468 (Sao Luiz/Puruna)      320.4
BR-158      Entr. BR-317/465(B) - Entr. BR-272/369(A)/487(A) (Campo Mourao)            15.9
BR-373      Entr. BR-487(A)/BR-151 (Ponta Grossa) - Entr. BR-376(A)                     7.8
BR-373      Entr. BR-277(A)/PR-452 (Rel6gio) - Entr. BR-376(b) (Caetano)              101.5
BR-277      Fronteira Brasil/Paragaui (Ponte da Amizade) - Entr. BR-369/467 (Cascavel)  145.8
BR-277      Entr. BR-369/467 (Cascavel) - Entr. BR.-466 (p/Guarapuava)                241.3
BR-277      Entr. BR-466/PR-364 (Guararapuava) - Entr. BR-376/PR-428 (S. Luiz Purana)  203.5
BR-277      Entr. BR-376/PR-428 (Sao Luiz Purana) - Final Trecho Municipal (Curitiba)  46.3
BR-277      Entr. BR-1 16/476 Curitiba) - Ponte s/Rio Emboguacu (Praranagua)           84.2
Total                                                                               1,786.5
(b)    Rio Grande do Sul State Concession Program
12.    The state of Rio Grande do Sul has prepared a highway concession program, which consists of
concessioning nine separate networks around nine regional centers. The studies have been completed
and the bidding process is at the pre-qualification stage. The concessions would be awarded to the pre-
qualified bidders who offer to take the longest networks for a pre-established toll rate. It is expected
that the aggregated length of the nine networks will exceed 3,000 km. The Ministry of Transport has
delegated to the state 11 highway sections totalling about 2,771 km (Table 4).
Table 4. Federal Highway Sections Delegated to the State of Rio Grande do Sul
Hiehwav No.   Section                                                                 Length
BR- 116     Pelotas - Jaguarao                                                        640.6
BR-153      Entr. BR 290 - Bage                                                       135.9
BR-158      Santa Maria - Julio de Castilho                                           157.7
BR-285      Vacaria - Lagoa Vermelha                                                   67.0
BR-285      Passo Fundo - Pananbi                                                     128.5
BR-287      Santa Maria - Sao Vicente                                                  86.3
BR-290      Eldorado do Sul - Uruguaiana                                              613.3
BR-293      Pelotas - Bage                                                            161.1
BR-386      Carazinho - Lageado - Soledade Tabai                                      375.0
BR-392      Rio Grande do Sul - Santa Maria                                           349.6
BR-471      Santa Cruz - Entr. BR-290                                                  58.9
Total                                                                              2,771.0



- 55 -                               Annex 4
(d)    DNER Concession Program
13.   The federal highway sections which are not, or will not be, delegated to state goverments,
would be concessioned directly by DNER. On the basis of the pre-feasibility study, 16 sections
totalling about 3,900 km could possibly be concessioned (Table 5). Detailed studies, however, still
need to be carried out in order to confirm the feasibility of the proposed concessions. DNER is in the
process of contracting such studies for a first group of nine highway sections totalling about 2,150 km,
which would constitute the second phase. The terms of reference for the studies, including the
engineering, traffic, economic, financial, and environmental analyses, have been reviewed and found
satisfactory by the appraisal mission. The project would include consultant services to carry out these
studies. It is expected that the studies of the first phase would be completed by the end of 1997 and
those of the second phase by the end of 1998. The bidding process would take place in 1998 and 1999
respectively.
Table 5. Federal Hi hwa s to be Concessioned b DNER
Financial
Hi2hway No.    Section                                  Length   Investments/    Raet  o
NPV (UJS$M)   Return-
A. First Phase    (completed , see Table 1)                  850         1.400        n.a.
B. Second Phase
BR-116/PR/SC      Curitiba - Div. SC/RS                      406           50          14
BR-101/RN         Div. PB/RN - Natal                          89           28          31
BR-101/PE         Div. PE/PB - Div. PE/AL                    213           58          30
BR-101/PB         Div. PE/PB - Div PB/RN                     129           40          29
BR-101/RJ         Div. ES/RJ - Pte. Pres. Costa e Silva      322           55          26
BR-393/RJ         Div. MG/RJ (Alem Paraiba) - Entr. BR-116   192           28          25
BR-101/AL         Div. PE/AL -Div. AL/SE                     251           34          13
BR-101/SE         Div. AL/SE - Div. SE/BA                    206           31          12
BR-153/SP         Div. MG/SP - Div. SP/PR                    348           45          26
Subtotal                                               2,156          369
C. Third Phase
BR-324/116/BA     F. de Santana - Div. BA/MG                 646          111          27
BR-163/MT         Entr. BR-070 (V. Grande) - Jangada          86           11          26
BR-267/MS         Entr. BR-267 (N. Alvorada) - Div. MS/SP    249           30          24
BR-163/MT         Div. MT/MS - Cuiaba                        323           27          22
BR-163/MS         Campo Grande - Dourados                    220           25          20
BR-153/PR         Div. SP/PR - Entr. NR-272(A) (Japira)      105           14          18
BR-232/PE         Recife - Caruaru                           129           18          12
Subtotal                                                    1,758         236
Total                                                  4,764        2,005
Preliminary estimates based on pre-feasibility analysis
14.    On the highway sections which require essentially rehabilitation and maintenance works, the
program of works can generally be phased so that they can be substantially financed through toll
revenues. In these cases, debt financing requirements are minimal; therefore, in spite of the lack of
long-term debt financing in Brazil, it is expected that these concessions will attract interest on the part
of investors and contractors.



- 56 -                              Annex 4
15.   On the highway sections which require substantial initial investments, such as a complete
reconstruction of the pavement, additional lanes or dualization, the concession documents will be
designed with a view to facilitate private financing.  In particular, the methodologies for traffic
analyses and forecasts, and the computer model for financial analyses, will be refined. Improved
mechanisms would be developed and some form of guarantees would be offered for toll adjustments
with inflation, servicing of foreign debts, repatriation of dividends, and non-judicial resolution of
disputes. DNER is also preparing for broader communication and marketing efforts to disseminate the
program, with a view to attracting interest from international investors and financiers, and to
increasing competition.
16.   The Government has shown interest in the Bank's guarantee program, and it was agreed that,
at the request of the Government, the Bank would assess the feasibility of partial risk guarantees on
loans to concessionaires for specific highway concessions which, because of the risks involved, would
not be attractive without such Bank guarantees. One or two pilot projects will be selected on the basis
of the results of the feasibility studies, and the Bank would make a separate evaluation of these projects
for possible guarantee operations.
D. Technical Assistance and Training
17.   In order to implement the highway concession program  and to supervise the highway
concessions, DNER has recently established a Concession Department, headed by a Director who
reports directly to the Director-General (Chart 1, Annex 10). The department is responsible for all
activities related to highway concessions, including planning, studies, development, procurement and
supervision. The supervision of the concession contracts would be delegated to DNER's relevant
districts. The DERs of Santa Catarina, Parana and Rio Grande do Sul, have established concession
units with similar responsibilities. The proposed project would include technical assistance from an
international specialist firm and staff training to help DNER organize and strengthen the new
Concession Department and establish adequate concession supervision capabilities in the relevant
DNER districts in order to implement the concession program efficiently. Technical assistance and
training services would also be offered to the DERs which are preparing and/or implementing
concession programs which include delegated highways.
18.   The scope of the technical assistance would be to:
(a)    advise on the traffic studies, financial analyses, and appropriate financial structures to
ensure the attractiveness of the concession projects to private sponsors and financial
institutions, including the development of an adequate computerized financial model
which would be used to evaluate bidders' proposals;
(b)    help prepare appropriate concession documents and the related bidding documents to
ensure an efficient distribution of the risks between the Government, the sponsors and
the financial institutions;
(c)    prepare a marketing plan, including documentation to disseminate the program and
specific projects, identify potential sponsors and financiers, and organize appropriate
series of meetings and road shows;



- 57 -                               Annex 4
(d)    assist in the evaluation of bids, particularly in the feasibility of the proposed financial
structures, and in award decisions;
(e)    recommend appropriate communications policies vis-a-vis road users, and help
organize public meetings and hearings;
(f)    organize the units responsible for the supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the
concession contracts, prepare relevant manuals, and train supervision, monitoring and
evaluation staff;
(g)    recommend effective dispute resolution mechanisms;
(h)    review the environmental analyses of specific concession projects, and advise on
appropriate distribution of environmental responsibilities; and
(i)    prepare and help coordinate a training program for DNER and DER concession staff,
particularly in the areas of: financial analyses and project finance; procurement and
legal issues; environmental management and supervision; communications and public
relations; supervision and auditing; monitoring and evaluation.
19.    Estimates of specialist-month and budget requirements for the technical assistance and training
components are shown in the project cost and financing table (Annex 8, Table 2).



- 58 -                                Annex 5
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Environmental Management Plan
A. Environmental Management Capacities
1.     DNER has established an Environmental Unit in its Engineering Department as a condition of
the recently-completed Highway Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan No. 3169-BR). The
unit is responsible for developing appropriate environmental norms and instructions and for
supervising their implementation. The unit is now comprised of one economist and three engineers,
who have received appropriate training and are now fully operational.
2.      The unit, with technical assistance financed under the above-mentioned project or other
sources, has carried out the following agreed tasks:
(a)  preparation of a manual of Environmental Norms and Instructions: Corpo Normativo
Ambientalpara Enpreendimentos Rodoviarios (para. 4);
(b)  preparation of a computerized Environmental Management System, which consists of a
database of environment-related information;
(c)  environmental assessments for major improvement projects, including the Sao Paulo -
Florian6polis highway, the BR-174 Manaus-Boa Vista highway, and the BR 040/MG Belo
Horizonte-Sete Lagoas highway;
(d)  preparation of a Pilot Plan for the Rehabilitation of Environmental Degradations resulting
from road works in the State of Rio de Janeiro, and related Manual of Instructions to address
the most frequent degradations;
(e)  ex-post evaluation of the Engineering Design of BR 101/ RJ/SP highway between Rio de
Janeiro and Ubatuba, identifying the environmental management deficiencies at the planning,
design, and constrution stages;
(f)  evaluation of land use in right-of-ways and in their vicinity, identification of related problems
such as fires, urban crossings, invasions, etc., and recommendation of solutions, including
resettlement of population; and
(g)  environmental audits of specific engineering designs and construction works.
3.      More recently, the unit had initiated the following additional tasks:
(a)   ex-post environmental impact assessment of the BR 163/MT/PA Cuiaba-Santarem highway,
aiming at verifying the changes, especially migrations and economic activities that occurred
in the area of influence after the construction of the road sections in the 1960s and 1970s. The
results of this work and of the above-mentioned BR 101 Rio de Janeiro - Ubatuba study will



- 59 -                                Annex 5
help develop a detailed methodology for incorporating environmental impact assessments in
the economic evaluation of future highway improvement projects; and
(b)  specific environmental studies and supervision of the implementation of the environmental
measures on many highway sections such as BR 226/CE, Jaguaribe-Senador Pompeu, and BR-
050/MG (near Uberlandia).
4.      DNER's manual of Environmental Norms and Instructions (Corpo Normativo Ambiental para
Enpreendimentos Rodoviarios), which was prepared by the Environmental Unit, and approved by
DNER Administrative Council through Resolution No. 126/96, is now in effect. The Manual includes
Environmental Guidelines (Escopo Basico) for road projects and ten specific Environmental
Instructions (ISAs), which are now incorporated into all bidding documents and contracts for road
engineering and works.  These instructions cover all the phases of the highway projects, and
particularly:
(a)  preliminary environmental impact assessments at the planning stage;
(b)  analyses of alternative aligmnents;
(c)  environmental impact assessments (EIAs);
(d)  environmental impact reports (RIMAs);
(e)  preparation of the Environmental Management Plan;
(f)  environmental impacts at the design stage: identification, prevention and mitigation;
(g)  environmental impacts at the construction stage: identification, prevention and mitigation;
(h)  environmental impacts at the operation stage;
(i)  environmental rehabilitation projects; and
(j)  environmental supervision of road works.
5.      The manual was prepared with technical assistance under the recently-completed Highway
Management and Rehabilitation Project. The Bank supervision team closely supervised the preparation
of the manual; the appraisal mission reviewed the document and found it adequate to ensure an
effective environmental management and supervision of highway projects, including the proposed
project. The Bank team also supervised the other tasks carried out by the environmental unit under the
recent project, and found that the unit has now the capacity to effectively implement its
responsibilities. However, considering the size of the proposed project, the project management
consultant would provide technical assistance to the project management team and to the environmental
unit in carrying out the environmental management plan (section B).
6.    The environmental management performance of the DERs is still mixed. Many DERs do not
have yet appropriate environmental norms or guidelines nor a capacity to implement them. But the
seven DERs participating in the project, which have benefited from Bank or IDB-financed projects,
have already established an institutional capacity to analyze the environmental impacts of their projects,



- 60 -                                Annex 5
take them into account at the planning and design stages, and effectively implement the necessary
prevention or mitigatory measures. Under the project, they will be required to adopt DNER's manual
of environmental norms and instructions or equivalent, and to strengthen their environmental units and
procedures as necessary to effectively supervise the implementation of such norms and instructions.
The terms of the contracts for highway engineering, road works and concessions would specify the
environmental responsibilities of the consultants, contractors, concessionaires and DNER or the DER,
with approporiate references to the manual of environmental norms and instructions.   The
environmental units of DNER and the DERs, and the Project Management Consultant would carry out
appropriate supervision.  In particular, the project would help implement the necessary surveys,
designs and works under the rehabilitation subprojects to repair and prevent road-related environmental
degradation (section B).
B. Enviromnental Management Plan
7.    The project works consists essentially of the rehabilitation and resurfacing of existing paved
highways, and of localized operational and safety improvements and environmental rehabilitation
works. The rehabilitation and resurfacing works are related to the existing platform of the highway,
mostly to the pavement. The operational and safety improvement works will consist of widening lanes
and shoulders (in particular climbing lanes), strengthening or widening of bridges, improvement of
curves and intersections, and vertical and horizontal signalization. The environmental rehabilitation
works will consist mainly of correcting drainage systems to avoid uncontrolled erosions, and in
rehabilitating already degraded areas. Because of the budget constraints, however, only those works
necessary to avoid the further degradation of the highway platform will be implemented.
8.    The possible adverse effects of the maintenance and rehabilitation components are limited to
those resulting from quarrying, borrow pits, or the disposal of used pavement materials. The
operational and safety improvements, especially those planned in sensitive, either high population
density areas or mountainous terrain, could have adverse impacts, respectively on the people living
close to the highway or on slope erosion. Also, in the past, many highways were built without
adequate attention to the environment. The resulting environmental liabilities, which generally consist
of uncontrolled erosions, adversely affect the highway structure or right-of-way, and sometimes
adjacent properties.
9.    In order to effectively prevent or mitigate such adverse impacts, DNER has prepared and
would implement an environmental management plan. DNER has put into effect the above-mentioned
manual of environmental norms and instructions for road engineering and works. The seven
participating DERs will be required, through the delegation agreements, to adopt the DNER manual of
environmental norms and instructions or equivalent for all the investments under the project.
10.   At the planning and design stage, the engineering consultants have been required, and will be
required in the future, to follow the relevant Environmental Instructions. In particular, the agreed,
standard terms of reference for subproject field surveys and studies, which are included in the
Operational Manual, and the relevant Environmental Instructions incorporate appropriate screening
criteria and requirements to effectively prevent, correct or mitigate such adverse impacts. Adequate
supervision and control will be carried out by DNER and the DERs' environmental units, and by the
project management consultant. Summaries of these studies, including environmental analyses, in an
agreed format will be reviewed by the Bank prior to authorizing the financing of specific investments
under the loan.



- 61 -                                  Annex 5
11.   The terms of reference for subproject designs specifically require the subproject engineeering
consultants to survey all existing degradations in the right-of-way and adjacent areas resulting from
past road works. The environmental data collected by the consultants, including existing and potential
degradations, will be incorporated into DNER environmental database, and be used in the preparation
of future plans and programs. The consultants are also required to incorporate the design of the
subproject the necessary corrective works to rehabilitate such degraded areas and to prevent future
degradations. However, considering the budget constraints, the environmental rehabilitation works
will be limited to those which are essential to prevent further degradations which, in the long term,
could affect the structure of the highway. On the basis of the studies of the first-year program, which
have been completed, reviewed by the appraisal mission, and found satisfactory, the cost of
environmental rehabilitation works was estimated, as an average, at about 5 percent of the total
subproject cost.
12.   The highway concession projects being prepared by DNER  are also subject to the
environmental management plan. The terms of reference for the engineering consultants who are
responsible for preparing the preliminary designs of the works and the bidding documents for the
concessions, include specific requirements for field surveys to identify existing and potential
environmental degradations, and for designing appropriate corrective and prevention measures or
works. The bidding documents and the concession contracts will include the relevant Environmental
Instructions of DNER, and will specify the respective responsiblities for implementing the specific
corrective and prevention works included in the concession.
13.   At the construction stage, appropriate norms and specifications will be incorporated in the
bidding documents and contracts for civil works, including the relevant Environmental Instructions and
the detailed specifications for the environmental prevention measures or works.  Payments to
contractors will be subject to compliance with the Environmental Instructions. The agreed standard
terms of reference for the supervision consultants, which are included in the Operational Manual,
specify the environmental supervision requirements.   DNER and the DERs environmental units,
assisted by the project management consultant, will exercise adequate control through field inspections
in order to ensure that the environmental clauses of the contracts for works and supervision are
complied with.
14.   Technical assistance and staff training services will be provided to DNER  and to the
participating DERs in order to effectively implement and supervise the above-mentioned environmental
requirements (Annex 6).



- 62 -                                 Annex 6
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Institutional Capacity Analysis and Technical Assistance
A. Assessment of DNER's Institutional Capacity
1.    DNER's institutional capacity analyses were initiated as far back as 1988 , prompted by two major
factors: first, the constitutional reform which decentralized fiscal revenues, drastically curtailing DNER
budgetary resources and forcing the agency to revise and reduce the scope of its road activities; second, the
policy shift in emphasis away from new works and expansion of the federal highway network to the more
relevant activities of maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing assets. DNER appointed a Consulting
firm to make a comprehensive analysis of its institutional capacity gaps, and to recommend institutional
reform and strengthening measures required in the new context of maintaining the existing network to an
adequate level of service under more constrained financial resources. On the basis of these analyses, the
Consultant identified the major institutional weaknesses of the institution and recommended a plan for
reform and institutional strengthening in order to achieve the newly defined role and objectives of DNER.
Taking into account the results and recommendations of the Consultant's assessment, a number of positive
reforms were implemented such as the contracting of all maintenance activities to the private sector, the
transfer of the police function on the federal highways and related staff to the Ministry of Justice, the
reduction of staff through early retirement, and the merging of the former Maintenance and Construction
Departments into one Department of Highway Engineering. Despite these positive actions, DNER's
current organization still reflects its past objectives and requires further reforms.
2.     The enactment in February 1995 of the concession law, and the Government's decisions to
concession the highway sections that are susceptible to attract private management and financing, and to
devolve to the states the responsibilities for a substantial portion (nearly 30%) of the federal network that is
not of national interest, will have two effects: (i) to reduce the scope of DNER's direct operation and
maintenance responsibilities on the federal network by almost 40%, as well as the Federal Government's
expenditure responsibilities; and (ii) to increase DNER's responsibilities for regulating, supervising and
monitoring the concession and decentralization programs. On this basis, DNER started to redesign its
administrative and organizational structure with technical assistance financed under the recently-completed
Federal Highway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR). In redefining DNER's mission and objectives,
the consultant helped diagnose its current institutional deficiencies and recommended measures to
strengthen the specific functions and processes needed to effectively implement the proposed Federal
Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization project.
3.     The institutional capacity gaps, and thus the needs for capacity building, were identified as follows:
(i) lack of coordination between DNER and the various ministries involved in the definition, funding
and implementation of highway transport policies and programs; this issue was addressed by the
recent reform of DNER's Administrative Council, which now includes representatives of the
Ministries of Planning, Finance and Transport;



- 63 -                                 Annex 6
(ii)  insufficient network monitoring and work programming and budgeting capacity; DNER still needs
to organize systematic surveys of surface and structural condition, traffic and accidents, and to
strengthen its network database and its planning, programming, costing and budgeting processes to
prepare coherent annual and pluriannual investment and maintenance programs and budget
proposals;
(iii)  deficient contract supervision and quality control often resulting in substantial delays and cost
overruns: hence the need to strengthen its capacity to inspect, audit and monitor the works, and to
reevaluate its methodologies and forms of contracts, including shifting from traditional line-item or
quantity and unit price contracts to more efficient performance or results-based contracts;
(iv)  insufficient technical capacity and resources to prepare highway concession projects attractive to
the private sector; hence the recent creation of the Concession Department and the concession
technical assistance and training component of the project;
(v)  insufficient technical capacity to adequately supervise and monitor the concession contracts or the
new forms of maintenance management contracts; and the consequent need to strengthen the
regional districts' concession supervision and monitoring capacity to ensure that the quality
standards of the contracts are complied with;
(vi)  insufficient capacity to supervise the preparation of final engineering designs and to ensure that
consultant recommendations are consistent with the technical solutions derived from economic
analyses incorporating budget constraints, and with other agreed policies and standards for
operational and safety improvements and environmental rehabilitation works;
(vii)  deficiencies in the preparation and carrying out of experimental and applied research programs;
DNER needs to seek innovative and cost-effective technologies responding to pressing issues and
problems encountered at design, construction, or maintenance stages;
(viii)  lack of management stability within the technical and operational departments due to high turnover
arising from changes in government: hence the need to separate the politically appointed layers of
management, most susceptible to changes, from what should be a more permanent core of technical
staff.
4.    In order to remedy the above deficiencies and to strengthen DNER's capacity to implement the
proposed project and to achieve its objectives, DNER has established a Project Management Unit, headed
by a Project Manager who reports directly to the Director General, and a Project Coordinating Committee,
including the Directors of all the departments involved.  The project includes a technical assistance
component, which consists of the assignment of: (a) a specialized Project Management Consultant (PMC)
to assist the PMU and the departments concerned in the coordination, supervision and monitoring of the
project; and (b) a specialized Highway Concession Consultant to assist the Concession Department in
preparing and monitoring the concession program.
B. Project Management Unit
5.    In order to ensure adequate management of the project, a Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
was established in January 1997, through a resolution of DNER's General Director. Also, a Project



- 64 -                                 Annex 6
Management Unit (PMU) was created. The PCC includes the Directors of the Departments involved in the
project and is responsible for effective inter-departmental coordination. The PMU is headed by the Chief of
the Planning Division (Assessoria de Planejamento), who is directly subordinated to the Director-General.
The mission assigned to the PMU is three-fold: (i) to plan and manage the implementation of the project,
distributing the various tasks involved in its execution between the Unit itself and the Departments existing
within the formal structure of DNER, (ii) to prepare the annual work programs to be financed under the
project, monitor their implementation and report on progress made to the Director-General, and (iii)
establish and maintain, on behalf of DNER, all relationships with the Bank and IDB as well as with other
Governmental Departments and States authorities involved in the Project.
6.     The Project Management Unit has its headquarters in Brasilia and its relation with the DNER's
organizational structure is illustrated in Chart 1. The PMU comprises the following seven sub-units, all of
which will be headed by DNER staff (Chart 2):
* an Administrative Sub-unit
* a Rehabilitation Sub-unit
a Decentralization Sub-unit
* a Concession and Institutional Development Sub-unit
and three Regional Sub-units for the North-East, South-East, and South with headquarters
in Salvador, Belo-Horizonte, and Porto-Alegre respectively.
7.     The Administrative Sub-unit, with the participation of all relevant DNER's operational
departments, is responsible for the elaboration and implementation of the computerized information systems
that will enable to control, monitor and report on the physical, financial and administrative progress of all
works and services executed and financed under the project, all in accordance with DNER's procedures and
Bank's requirements.  The Rehabilitation Sub-unit, with the participation of the Directors of the
Departments involved in the project (including regional districts), is responsible for the preparation of the
detailed implementation schedule, including the necessary annual budget resources allocations, for all
works to be executed on the highways to remain federal, and for the monitoring of their physical and
financial execution, including progress reports writing. The Sub-unit is also in charge of updating the
Operational Manual as may be necessary. The Decentralization Sub-unit, also in consultation with the
other operational DNER's Departments and the highway authorities of participating States, is responsible
for the preparation of the detailed implementation schedule, including the necessary budget resources
allocations, for all the works to be carried out on the highways to be transferred and for the monitoring of
their physical and financial execution, including the preparation of corresponding progress reports. The
sub-unit will also contribute to any update to be made of the Operational Manual. The Concession and
Institutional Development Sub-unit , in consultation with the Concession Department, the Research
Institute (IPR) is responsible for the preparation of the detailed implementation schedule of the concession
and institutional development components, including the related annual budgetary resources allocations,
and for monitoring the physical and financial progress of execution, including compliance with established
performance indicators and targets. The Regional Sub-units task is to represent and complement the action
of the central unit in Brasilia, in providing more immediate assistance to subprojects activities performed
either by DNER's regional districts under the rehabilitation component or by States DERs under the
decentralization component.



- 65 -                                             Annex 6
Chart 1. The Project Management Unit within DNER Organizational Structure
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE
CABINET                                ~~~~~~~~~LEGAL
DEPARTMENT
TECHNICAL                                           PLANNING
ADVISORY                                            ADVISORY
DEPARTMENT                                          DEPARTMENT
ADMINISTRATIVE 8. ROAD TRAFFI        ENGINEE*JN           C~ ION             TECHNOLOGICAL
INANCIAL       OPERATIONJ        EATErDPRMN                            DEVELOPET(R
DEPARTMENT       DEPARMENT DDEPATMEN                   DEPARTMENT           DEPARTMENT
. ~~~~~~~~~~I ..I-. ''.'ici;;""
|  Reglonal  |  | Reglonal      Regional          Regional
t  DisricS 1    Dlstlict 2      DisrIcts 20      Districts 21   1.
Chart 2. Organizational Structure of the Project Management Unit
DNER GENERAL
DIRECTOR
I
PMU COORDINATING
COMMITrEE
PMU EXECUMVE
MANAGER
Sub-Units
DECENTRALIZATIONI       &CONCESSIONS
REHABILITATION               ALIZTON          & INSTITUTIONAL       ADMINISTRATION
(STATES)             DEVLOPMENT
NORTH EAST
REGIONAL UMT                SOUTH EAST                   SOUTH
(Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio  REGIONAL UNIT              REGIONAL UNIT
Grande do Nort., Parauba,    (Mines Gerals, EspirHto Santo, Rio   (Parana, Santa Catarina, Rio
Pernambucoq Alagoas, Sergife,  de Janelro, Sao Paulo)      Grande do Sul)
l3aNe) 



- 66 -                                  Annex 6
C. Project Management Technical Assistance
8.    In order to fill short-term gaps in DNER's current capacity to implement the project, technical
assistance shall be provided throughout the project implementation period to the PMU and through it to the
various departments involved in the execution and monitoring of the project. The Terms of Reference for
this technical assistance describes as follows the scope of the services and the tasks to be performed by the
Consultant. In the initial stage of project implementation, the Consultant will assist the PMU in Brasilia in:
(i) the preparation of a detailed Project Implementation Plan, in consultation with the various
departments concerned;
(ii)  the identification of tasks to be carried out for work supervision and monitoring;
(iii)  the preparation of a model of work plan to be used by the States participating to the
decentralization program;
(iv)  the development of an appropriate set of procedures for obtaining environmental licenses for the
works;
(v)  the development of specific software, manuals and procedures for the planning and programming
of works, both in physical and financial terms;
(vi)  the definition of suitable performance indicators and reliable targets monitoring plans and data
collection methodologies for works, and institutional development, including specific environmental
and safety indicators;
(vii)  the development of a computerized project management system, including a review of DNER
existing administrative procedures and recommendations for their improvement;
(viii) the design of a system for processing systematic requests of funds;
(ix)  the preparation of systems and models for the transmission of all technical, legal, and fiscal
documentation required by the financing agencies or other governmental departments; and
(x)  the preparation of agreements or protocols to be signed with participating states and the review of
their work program.
During project implementation, the services required from the Consultant shall comprise:
(i) the preparation of all information as required by the loan agreements or by the financing agencies
for the purpose of their supervision of the project;
(ii) the periodic review and update of the detailed Project Implementation Plan
(iii)  the preparation of all documentation related to bidding, proposal evaluation, contract award and
statement of expenditures in support of request for disbursement, as may be required by the Banks
or other government agencies; and



- 67 -                                  Annex 6
(iv) the preparation of periodic progress reports, including disbursement projections and status of
compliance with the specified targets.
9.     The Consultant shall also provide assistance to the Administrative Sub-unit in the monitoring of
payments made and status of disbursement , and the Rehabilitation, Decentralization and Concession Units
in the preparation of their annual program and budgets and in the monitoring of such programs both in
physical and financial terms, assessing also whether they achieved the standards of performance and quality
as well as the targets specified in the loan agreement. Vis A vis the Regional Subunit, the Consultant will
provide assistance similar to that given to the Central Unit reinforcing the control of that unit on site in
order to ensure that the rehabilitation and decentralization components are progressing satisfactorily. To
that effect, it is expected that the Consultant will assign and maintain adequate representation in the three
Regional Subunits. In the final stage of project implementation, the Consultant is expected to assist the
Coordinating Unit in the collection of all data enabling to assess the final status of execution of the project
in financial economic, technical and administrative terms. Furthermore, the Consultant will prepare the
Project Implementation Completion Report including a plan for the subsequent maintenance of the Federal
Network on a sustainable basis. The length of the Technical Assistance Contract is estimated at 54 months
and the total cost at U$13 million representing approximately 1,000 specialist-months.
D. Institutional Capacity Analysis of the State Road Departments
10.    The success of the decentralization program implies that the State Roads Departments (DERs), to
which highways are to be transferred, have the capacity not only to prepare, contract, and monitor the
execution of the rehabilitation works to be carried out on the roads which will become under their
responsibility, but also to ensure that in the future adequate maintenance strategies are implemented in a
coherent and cost-effective manner, both on the state network and the federally-devolved highways.
11.    During project preparation, a survey was carried out to diagnose the capabilities of the DERs to
effectively take charge of the rehabilitation activities to be performed under this project and also to fulfill,
at a later stage, the prime functions of network maintenance management. The results of the survey would
serve as a foundation to design the objectives and tasks of the technical assistance required to bridge the
institutional capacity gaps identified.
12.    The survey showed that most DERs suffer to varying degrees, from common deficiencies, such as
excess of personnel, little planning capacity, and lack of comprehensive pluriannual investments and
maintenance programs based on objective and updated network and traffic surveys with priorities clearly
established and supported by sound economic evaluations. Also, very few DERs have yet sufficient
expertise in environmental impact assessments and little knowledge on how to develop and monitor a
coherent concession program, while few have yet developed the system of routine maintenance by contract.
Although some of the states where the devolution of federal highways is expected to be the most important,
for example Minas Gerais, Parana, Rio Grande do Sul, and Santa Catarina have already set up structures
and road management systems, these will need to be upgraded in order for them to be able to perform
efficiently the task of maintaining adequately the road system assets.
13.    The four areas where upgrading is necessary and for which technical assistance is most needed are
the following:



- 68 -                                 Annex 6
(i)  Development of annual and multi-year road investment and maintenance programs based on
updated network and traffic surveys, and supported by HDM/EBM economic evaluations;
(ii)  Design and implementation of more cost-effective maintenance execution programs, giving higher
priority to maintenance by contract, while keeping force-account involvement within reasonable
limits;
(iii)  Identification, preparation, negotiation and supervision of the state's road concession program; and
(iv)  Development and implementation of a comprehensive training program on environmental impact
assessment of roadwork.
14.    The project would finance the technical assistance needed to strengthen the capacity of the DERs
for performing these functions. To that effect, the following draft Terms of Reference were prepared to
apply to the procurement of competent consulting firms.
E. Technical Assistance to State Road Departments
15.    The main objectives of the technical assistance are to:
(i)  carry out comprehensive network and traffic surveys (or update previous surveys) and train DERs
personnel not only in modem surveying techniques but also in using the latest version of the HDM
model for data analysis, thus enhancing the capacity of the DERs in establishing more adequate
planning and implementation structures; assisting ultimately in the preparation of the state's annual
and pluriannual road investment programs;
(ii)  assist the DERs in the design and implementation of more cost-effective maintenance policies
based upon an increased participation of the private sector and preferably promoting performance-
type contracts, while helping in the restructuring and right-sizing of an in-house force-account unit;
(iii)  strengthen the capacity of DERs for identifying, preparing, negotiating and supervising the state's
highway concession program; and
(iv)  strengthen the capacity of DERs to perform environmental impact assessments of road projects,
including the development of appropriate environmental norms and the building up of the
conditions enabling to enforce the environmental regulations.
7.     The following tasks would be performed by the technical assistance:
(i)  review existing methods and/or develop more appropriate methodologies for traffic and network
inventories, including surface defects, roughness, structural capacity assessment, and evolve
computer processing programs enabling the results of the surveys to be presented in a suitable and
attractive form (GIs system), while allowing them to be readily input in the subsequent economic
evaluations;
(ii)  carry out the above-mentioned traffic and network condition surveys, training the personnel in the
process;



- 69 -                                 Annex 6
(iii) on the basis of the above, assist in the preparation of the state's annual and pluriannual road
program, considering budget constraint, and using the HDM/EBM model (including, possibly, the
more recent HDM 4 version);
(iv) review the DERs policy on maintenance, analyze existing structures including personnel and
equipment capacity and performance; develop a new strategy for improving and right-sizing the
organization, seeking to expand the execution of routine maintenance by contract; and develop
procedures for the design, procurement and supervision of maintenance contracts with the private
sector, seeking to introduce and promote performance or result-based systems, in lieu of the
traditional quantity-based contracts;
(v)  review all existing studies and data, if any, regarding the road concession program of the state to
determine whether they are sufficient, and/or otherwise assist in the selection and prioritization of
specific road segments for concessioning, including economic, financial, and legal analysis; and
help in the preparation of the road concession tender documents, and provide guidance for the
supervision and monitoring of on-going concession projects; and
(vi) evaluate the current capacity of each participating DER to conduct environmental impact
assessments and elaborate on that basis a training program to improve that capacity and to enable
the DER's staff to effectively implement the environmental norms and guidelines.



-70 -                                    Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Project Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
1.    In order to prepare the multiyear (1997-2001) road maintenance program and define adequate
budgetary needs as well as priorities for resource allocations, the Planning Division of DNER carried out
an economic evaluation of the entire federal paved highway network, using the latest version of the Banks
Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model (HDM-III and HDM Manager) associated with the
Highway Sector Expenditure Budgeting Model (EBM-HS).
2.     The HDM III is designed to make comparative cost estimates and economic evaluations of different
construction and maintenance options, including different staging strategies, either for a given road section
or an entire network. The model simulates total life cycle conditions and costs and provides economic
decision criteria for multiple road design and maintenance alternatives. The primary cost set for the life-
cycle analysis includes the costs of road construction and maintenance and vehicle operating costs to which
travel time costs can be added as a special option. The concept can be simply outlined as follows:
determining costs, adding the set of costs over time and comparing the total cost streams for various
maintenance and construction alternatives. The basic data requirements are the road or network description,
construction options, maintenance standards and unit costs, vehicle characteristics and unit costs, traffic
volumes and projections, exogenous benefits and costs, analysis period and discount rates. The essential
references for understanding and running the model are contained in "The Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards Model. Model description and User's Manual" by Thawat Watanatada et al
published for the World Bank by the John Hopkins University Press in December 1987.
3.     The HDM Manager is a user-friendly shell environment developed over the last three years by the
World Bank for specific customized applications of HDM. For the economic evaluation of the federal
highway network, the latest version (version 3) dated December 1994 was used in association with the full
HDM III software package. HDM Manager is designed to evaluate a set of road agency strategies,
including congestion analysis, applied to paved and unpaved roads. It stores the input data efficiently and
creates all the input files required by HDM. It then transfers, from within the shell, the data to HDM III
which in turn computes the road deterioration, the costs streams and the economic indicators used to
compare the set of strategies analyzed. Finally HDM Manager collects and presents the results in a
practical way. However, unlike the main HDM program, HDM Manager does not enable to divide links
into sections and subsections, and execute only one link at a time using five alternative maintenance
strategies and up to seven vehicle types. For the calculation of vehicle operating costs, it uses the
fundamental equations derived from the Brazil experiments. Before running the HDM Model, HDM
Manager requires the user to define: (i) the discount rate, analysis period, initial year and currency, (ii) the
road characteristics, (iii) the vehicle fleet; and (iv) the maintenance or construction strategies to be
evaluated with their respective unit costs.
4.     The EBM-HS Model is an analytical tool for optimizing multiyear programs of expenditures under
multiple budgetary constraints. Particularly useful when used in conjunction with the HDM program,



- 71 -                                   Annex 7
EBM-HS reads the project data generated by HDM III (as previously stored in an ASCII text file) and
finds the optimal maintenance policy (i.e., the policy that maximizes the net benefits) under budgetary
constraints. It is capable of handling up to 100 projects (i.e., maintenance, upgrading, construction,
widening, etc...) with 16 mutually exclusive altematives. The annual values of economic costs and
benefits, including the annual amounts of capital and recurrent resources needed, are calculated for each
project alternative. The EBM-HS program then examines the resources consumed and the Net Present
Value (NPV) of the net benefits of each project alternative, and selects the group of altematives that
maximizes the total NPV for all projects within the pre-defined budget constraints.
B. Methodology of Economic Evaluation
5.     The economic evaluation follows a step-by-step procedure:
(i)  survey the road network, according to agreed Terms of Reference in order to collect the minimum
and yet necessary amount of information on traffic, pavement condition and environmental
parameters;
(ii) compile the survey data into a road data-base that enables to sort and statistically analyze them in
the most efficient manner;
(iii) identify and estimate the unit costs of the current and most effective maintenance and rehabilitation
(or upgrading) techniques compatible with the current experience and material resources;
(iv) determine DNER's most probable budget constraint scenarios for the next five years on the basis
of past experience;
(v) on the basis of the information obtained from the inventory, design a matrix which would
desegregate the road network into homogeneous groups of roads or links suitable for evaluation,
and formulate maintenance policies alternatives for each one of these groups (or cells of the
matrix); and finally;
(vi) calibrate the HDM III model in order to adapt, as necessary, the road deterioration submodel and to
reflect modem vehicle technology in so far as it affects vehicle operating costs;
(vii) run the HDM Manager and EBM models to arrive at the optimum set of maintenance strategies
consistent with budget constraints, and the listing of priorities with corresponding expenditures for
the 1997-2001 period.
C. Basic Parameters and Assumptions used in the Analysis
6.     The basic parameters and assumptions used to run the HDM and EBM models are:
(i)  Network conditions and characteristics, including traffic volumes, composition and growth;
(ii) Vehicle characteristics and operating unit costs; and



- 72 -                                   Annex 7
(iii) Typical construction, overlay and maintenance techniques with their respective unit costs. Network
conditions and characteristics are summarized in Table 6 and Table 7. Values used for the cost
parameters are given below. In addition, the following assumptions were made: Discount rate =
12%; Analysis Period = 20 years; Traffic Growth = 3 % per year; Year 1 of implementation =
1997; Generated Traffic = 0; Nature of benefits = reduced vehicle operating costs, time savings of
road users, and reduction in maintenance costs.
(a)    Network Survey
7.     Prior to starting the network survey, and in order to standardize data collection methodologies,
Terms of Reference were prepared both for the District engineers and for the consultants contracted to
assist in the inventory. The procedures used for collecting information were designed to be consistent with
the minimum requirements of the economic model to be used (HDM Manager), and also to achieve speed at
reasonable cost. The survey was carried out by region, each of the five regions comprised between 9,000
and 11,000 k1m, covering altogether approximately 52,000 km. It comprised the following tasks:
(i)  a definition (identification name, length, age of construction...) of individual homogeneous
segments forming the federal network, based on archives available within DNER;
(ii) the quantification of the geometrical, structural and environmental parameters characterizing each
homogeneous segment, i.e., width of pavement and shoulders, pavement surface type, rainfall,
altitude and topography; such information being obtained from DNER's files or from the district
engineers;
(iii) visual assessment, on a continuous basis, of surface defects enabling the extent (%) of potholes and
cracking to be determined for each homogeneous link, followed by a rating which reflects the
overall serviceability index of that link (a rating of 5 meaning excellent condition, a rating of 1
meaning poor condition); such assessment being made by the district engineers;
(iv) characterization of the pavement structure for each homogeneous link, including the definition of
the thickness and geotechnical nature of the materials forming that structure, as well as subgrade
CBR values; this information being obtained either from existing files or from a few pits dug in the
pavements;
(v) continuous roughness measurements using calibrated response-type equipment (Mays meter, Bump
integrator, or equivalent); the measurements covering the totality of the paved network;
(vi) deflection, cracking, potholes and rut depth measurements on some 1,500 one-km-long test sections
selected to represent the whole network, thus enabling each uniform segment to be associated with
representative values of deflection and rut depth; and
(vii) and finally three-day traffic counts at specific locations in order to capture traffic characteristics on
each uniform section of the network; the counts involving the assessment of both the volumes and
the distribution of vehicles by class; (annual traffic growth projection figures being obtained from
past records and/or predicted growth of other economic indicators).
8.     The visual surveys and general traffic information provided by the districts were carried out
between June and December 1995, while the roughness and deflection measurements as well as additional



-73-                                                Annex 7
traffic counts were carried out by consultants between January and May 1996. A rate of survey of
approximately 10,000 km per month was achieved.
9.      Following the collection of data, all the information was compiled into a computerized data bank
designed to enable easy processing and consistency across regions. The worksheets uniformly contained
about 30 columns representing the road and traffic conditions parameters required by HDM Manager, and
as many rows as individual road segments within the network. By and large, the average length of each
individual section varied from  10 km to 50 krn. Once the information were entered in the data bank, they
were analyzed, checked for consistency, sorted out and rearranged in larger homogeneous groups of roads
having similar surface, structural, traffic and environmental characteristics.
(b)     Vehicle Characteristics and Operating Costs
10.     Data for estimating vehicle operating costs were collected at federal level and the values used in the
analyses are summarized below. Costs are given in economic terms, financial costs being about 1.7 times
economic costs, overall.
Thble 1: Vehicle Characteristics and Operating Costs
Car    Pick-up     Bus      Light truck    Med. Truck    Heavy Truck    Articulated
Basic Characteristics
Gross Vehicle Weight (t)   1.2   1.8       10.900    6.0           12.0          27.0            40.0
ESA Factor/Veh          0.0     0.010      0.50      0.10          2             6.7             12.0
NO. of Axles            2       2          2         2             2             3               5
No. of Tires            4       4          6         4             6             10              18
No. of Passengers       2        1         40        0             0             0               0
Vehicle Utilization Data
Service life (yr.)      12       10        10        10            12            12              12
Hrs driven/year         400     700        1600      1000          1150          1150            1300
Km driven/year          30000   50000      100000   70000          80000         80000           90000
Annual Interest rate (%)    12   12        12        12            12            12              12
Economic Unit Costs
New Veh. cost (US$)     14000   26000      70000     35000         55000         70000           100000
New Tire cost (US$)     50      70         300       150           250           300             400
Maint. lab. cost (US$/hr)   10   10        10        10            10            10              10
Crew cost (US$/hr)      0       0          6         6             360           6               6
Pass. time cost (US$/hr)    2   2          0.5       0             0             0               0
Cargo cost (US$/hr)     0       0          0         0                           0               0
Gas price (US$/liter)   0.50    0.50       0.3       0.3           0.3           0.3             0.3
Diesel price (US$/liter)        0.3        2.4       2.4           2.4           2.4             2.4
Lubric. price (US$/liter)   2.4  2.4
11.     On the basis of the above vehicle characteristics and after calibration of the HDM  model (paras. 17
to 19), the following equations were derived, giving as a function of roughness and for average geometrical
and terrain conditions, the vehicle operating cost per km traveled for each category of vehicle and also for a
typical composition of the vehicle fleet of the federal network:



- 74 -                                                    Annex 7
Table 2: Equations summarizing Vehicle Operating Costs
Category of vehicle                   VOC/veh-km. in US$
Cars                                   0. 14 exp 0. 035*IRI
Pick-up                                0.216 exp 0.037*IRI
Bus                                    0.45 exp 0.039*IR1
Light truck                            0.341 exp 0.055*IRI
Medium truck                           0.416 exp 0.0631IRI
Heavy truck                            0.64 exp 0.045*IRI
Articulated truck                      0.93 exp 0.045*1RI
Typical vehicle fleet                  0.35 exp 0.048*IRI
(c)      Unit Costs of Maintenance and Rehabilitation Techniques
12.      Suitable unit costs derived                Table 3: Unit Costs of Maintenance and Rehabilitation
from   recent  bid  proposals  were
applied   to   the   full  range   of                                          Techniques
maintenance,               rehabilitation    Maintenance and Rehabilitation Operations         Financial Unit Costs (in US$/Wn)
techniques         and        upgrading
operations    envisaged    by    the    Single surface treatment and/or Slurry seal              7,200
rouaios nvsay tie    Double surface treatment                  14,500
analysis. They  comprise  routme    Asphalt concrete overlay, 3 cm thick                         45,000
maintenwace, patching, resurfacing    Asphalt concrete            overlay, 4 cm thick            64,200
(slurry   seals,  single   or  double    Asphalt concrete overlay, 5 cm thick                    72,200 - 107,500 (full width)
surface dressings), asphalt concrete    Asphalt concrete overlay, 6 cm thick                     80,200 - 121,000
overlays  (with  prior recycling  of    Asphalt concrete overlay, 7 cm thick                     90,410
Asphalt concrete overlay, 8 cm thick              96,300 - 148,200
top  5  cm   of existing  pavements    Asphalt concrete overlay, 10 cm thick                     123,200 - 175,500
where    necessary),    and    total    Asphalt concrete overlay, 12cm thick                     141,500-202,733
reconstruction, as well as all other    Recycling of upper 5 cm +4 cm A.C overlay                77,500
sidework costs normally included in    Recycling of upper 5 cm +5 cm A.C overlay                 85,500 - 120,000
rehabilitation projects (mobilization    Recycling of upper 5 cm +6 cm A.C overlay               93,500 - 134,000
costs, drainage, shoulders  repairs    Recycling of upper 5 cm + 7 cm A.C overlay                106,000
Recycling of upper 5 cm +8 cm AC overlay          110,000 - 161,500
or reconstructlon, signalization. ..).    Recycling of upper 5 cm + 10 cm A.C overlay            143,000 - 189,000
In   addition,  the   unit  costs   of    Recycling of upper5 cm + 12 cm AC overlay              216,500
upgrading  operations  such  as the    Reconstruction with double surface treatment              112,000
provision of a third-lane or another    Reconstruction with 5 cm A.C wearing course              146,700
tolecraeaso    Reconstruction with 8 cm A.C wearing course  191,000
two-lane  carrlageway   were  also    Reconstruction with 1O cm A.C wearing course               219,500
determined.   The  following  table    Routine maintenance                                       2000
summarizes the techniques intended    Patching per sq. m                                         10
for use and their financial unit costs    Upgrading to three lanes                               200,000
(economic  costs  are  about  80%              Upgrading to dual carriageway                     1,600,000
financial  costs).    Also,  and  for
more general use, the following equations give the unit cost per km of rehabilitation techniques (overlays)
and reconstruction as a function of the thickness of the asphalt concrete overlay or new wearing course (t is
cm, with a range of applicability from 2 to 12 cm):



-75-                                       Annex 7
Table 4: Equation Summarizing Unit Costs of Rehabilitation Works
Rehabilitation technique                           Unit Cost per km. in US$
7.2 m wide A.C overlay                                  10264*t + 18,562
12.2 m wide A.C overlay (including shoulders) *         13625*t +39,233
7.2 m wide A.C overlay following top 5 cm recycling     10595*t + 31,974
12.2 m wide A.C overlay following 5 cm recycling *      13750*t + 51,500
Reconstruction                                          14377*t + 75,619
Note: Full width overlays only apply to roads with traffic ADT>5,000
(d)    Budget Constraints
13.    Over the last ten years, resource allocations made available to DNER for the rehabilitation of the
50,000 km paved network varied between US$130 million and US$400 million, averaging about US$300
million per year. Accordingly, and for a reduced network of about 40,000 km (excluding roads to be
concessioned), the following scenarios of annual budget constraints for investments in rehabilitation, over
the next six years, were used in the analysis, namely: US$ 200, 225, 250, 275, and 300 million.
As from year 7, an unconstrained budget resources was selected in order to determine the actual
annual allocations needed as a result of implementing the above scenario during the first six years of the
period of analysis. Moreover, resource allocations for routine maintenance were left unconstrained during
the twenty- year- period of analysis, representing approximately US$ 2,000/km/year.
(e)    Design of Analytical Matrices
14.    Prior to conducting the economic evaluation, two matrices were designed in order to desegregate
the road network according to surface type (see Table 8). One matrix, the larger one, comprised all
pavements with asphalt concrete wearing course. The second matrix concemed pavements with surface
treatments. The results of the surveys indicated that for all practical purposes, there was no need to include
rigid concrete pavements as they represent a negligible portion of the network (about 150 km i.e., 0.3%)
and cannot be properly analyzed by the current HDM model.
15.    Each matrix contained a number of cells designed according to the following parameters:
(i)  maintenance condition of the network, including 5 rating categories: excellent, good, fair, critical
and poor as a function of roughness, the thresholds used being IRI < 2.5 for excellent condition,
2.5 < IRI < 3 for good condition, 3 <IRI< 3.5 for fair condition, 3.5 < IRI <4.5 for critical
condition, and IRI > 4.5 for poor condition;
(ii) structural strength, including strong pavements with deflection less than 0.45 mm (or modified
structural number above 5), and weak pavements having mean deflection higher than 0.45 mm (or
modified structural number below 5);



- 76 -                                    Annex 7
(iii) traffic level, discriminating 7 classes between very low, low, medium-low, medium, medium-high,
high, and very high, these levels being respectively < 1,200, 1,200-1,800, 1,800-2,300, 2,33-3,100,
3,100-4,800, 4800-10,000 and > 10,000 vehicles/day ; the matrix for surface-dressed roads
including only the very low to medium-low traffic classes.
16.    The desegregation gave rise to the identification of homogeneous groups of roads or links, suitable
for evaluation. By definition, each group, of a given total or accumulated length, normally falls within one
cell of the matrices as having similar characteristics, and is to be subjected to a specific set of maintenance
policy alternatives, as described in para. 21 and 22. Asphalt concrete roads comprised 70 filled cells and
surfaced- dressed roads had 30 filled cells. Each cell had an identification code which reflected the above-
described characteristics.
(f)    Calibration of the HDM Model
17.    VOC submodel. The vehicle operating cost submodel was calibrated by updating vehicle costs
and characteristics and by adjusting the maintenance parts equations of the HDM III model to reflect
modern vehicle technology. The recent HDM-4 international study indicated that the maintenance parts
equations of HDM-III over-estimates parts consumption for modem vehicles and depicted an inconsistency
in the parts consumption rate (sensitivity of parts consumption to roughness) for passenger cars that rate
being significantly higher than for other vehicles, probably due to the types of vehicles used in the HDM-III
study. Therefore, following the guidelines of the HDM-4 study, and in addition to discarding variation in
costs for roughness level lower than 3 IRI, the maintenance parts consumption for 'hew technology"
vehicles was taken as 75 per cent of the "old technology" vehicles and the parts consumption rate for
passenger cars was adjusted to be the same as for trucks. Thus, in the table of optional parameters for the
vehicle fleet data contained in HDM Manager, the default values of 32.49, 1.49, 8.61, and 13.94 used for
the constant coefficient CPO in the exponential relationship between spare parts consumption and roughness
(which applied respectively to light vehicles, light trucks, heavy trucks and articulated trucks) were
replaced by 24.37, 1.128, 6.46, and 10.46. Similarly, for cars and utilities the roughness coefficient CPq in
the exponential relationship between spare part consumption and roughness was reduced from 13.7 to a
value of 9. The net impact of these changes is a 59% reduction in roughness effect for light vehicles and
about 42-43% for trucks. Other calibration adjustments made referred essentially to the energy-efficiency
factor and the hourly utilization ratios. The energy-efficiency factor which affects directly the prediction of
fuel consumption was adjusted by replacing the default value of 1 (which applied to vehicles employed
during the Brazil studies) by 0.8 in order to incorporate modern and more fuel-efficient vehicles makes and
models; the hourly utilization ratios which affect the prediction of depreciation and interest were adjusted
by replacing the default values of 0.60, 0.80, 0.75, 0.85 respectively used for cars, utilities, buses, and
trucks, by 0.20, 0.30, 0.40, and 0.50. Finally, vehicle and maintenance labor costs were updated along
with service life and hours driven per year (see Table 1). These adjustments generally resulted in VOC
values and benefits of a lesser magnitude than calculated with the original model (about 25% less).
18.    Road deterioration submodel. The road deterioration submodel was calibrated by introducing
equivalent standard axle factors for heavy vehicles that duly take into account the overloading observed or
expected to occur on the network. Also, for the assessment of pavement residual strength and the
prediction of roughness and other surface defects evolution, deflection values effectively measured on the
network were given precedence over structural numbers estimated from 'theoretical" material strength
coefficients. Considering the low deflection values measured (generally between 0.3 and 0.6 mm), this
approach resulted in modified structural numbers greater than what would have been otherwise calculated,
and consequently to somewhat slower deterioration pattems. Finally, the applicability of the roughness



-77-                                     Annex 7
progression model was evaluated by comparing the values of roughness observed on the 1,500 test sections
to the values calculated by HDM-3. Although, and as would be expected, some dispersion occurred due to
the large number of sample included in the statistical analysis, it was found that the HDM-3 model gives a
satisfactory prediction of roughness, with a I to I ratio between observed and predicted values.
19.    Maintenance costs submodel. Investments and maintenance unit costs were also updated, taking
into account the most recent figures obtained from bidding and incorporating all additional costs related to
shoulders repairs and upgrading, drainage rehabilitation, and pavement markings (estimated to be about 20
to 30% of total costs). These unit costs, however, do not include additional costs resulting from other
operational improvements such as climbing lanes, exceptional safety devices, and special environmrental
improvements as such expenditures are separately provided for in the project cost estimate.
D. Evaluation of Multiyear Program
20.    The economic evaluation covered altogether 38,566 km of roads, of which 29,335 km are to
remain under DNER jurisdiction and 9,231 km are to be devolved to the states. A total of 13,190 km of
roads, consisting of the highways already under concession (about 850 km), others to be concessioned but
currently under rehabilitation or upgrading contracts including the Sao Paulo-Belo Horizonte and Curitiba-
Florianopolis highways (about 1,500 km), the 4,000 km of roads recently delegated to the states of Parana
and Rio Grande do Sul for inclusion in their concession program, the up-coming DNER own concession
program (about 4,200 km) as well as about 2,600 km of other roads currently under rehabilitation
contracts, were excluded from the analysis. Regarding the DNER own concession program, a special
contingency allocation of about US$100 million over 5 years representing 3 cm asphalt concrete overlay
over the critical portion of that network, would be provided to keep them serviceable until concession is
awarded.
21     Phasing of the economic evaluation. The economic evaluation was carried out in 2 separate
phases. In the first phase, the whole 38,566 km long network was analyzed using various budget constraint
scenarios ranging from US$200 to 300 million per year, in order to determine the strategies corresponding
to the resource level alternative that would be compatible with DNER annual financial constraints over the
next 4 to 5 years. In a second phase, and having determined the optimal budget level alternative, the
objective was to incorporate in the analysis the results of the discussions held with the various states
governments on the scope and content of the decentralization program. Negotiations had indeed indicated
that devolution of highways to the states would be feasible and acceptable only if the total length of
network to be rehabilitated prior to transfer, was in the order of 4,000 km. Consequently, the second
exercise aimed at determining - within the limit of the overall budget available - the budget sharing ratio
(between the network to remain federal and the network to be transferred) that would enable to rehabilitate
on the network to be devolved, about 4,000 km of roads in critical or poor condition. To that effect, several
pairs of budget constraint ratios were tested until a mutually satisfactory solution was obtained.
22.    Steps in the analyses. In both phases of the evaluation, the economic analysis comprised five
successive steps: (i) the formulation of maintenance policy alternatives for each cell of the matrices (ii) the
HDM Manager runs at the link group (or cell) level, enabling to compare the returns to be expected from
each maintenance strategy altemative, (iii) the EBM runs which optimize, at network level, the set of
strategies analyzed by HDM Manager, taking into account the various budget constraints scenarios, (iv) the
selection of the set of strategies and priorities which are consistent with the predicted budget constraint



- 78 -                                     Annex 7
level, and (v) a sensitivity analysis for the selected strategy, to assess the impact of cost increases or benefit
decreases upon the economic returns.
23.    Formulation of Maintenance Alternatives.  Strategies can be either scheduled in time or
responsive to a certain threshold of surface condition. For paved roads in good condition which do not need
periodic maintenance actions in the near future, the first intervention was scheduled to take place in years 5
(i.e., in 2001), 7, 9, and 11, with future overlay action (5 cm asphalt concrete overlay), triggered at a
roughness level of 4 IRI. For paved roads in fair to poor condition, periodic maintenance actions can be
expected to be needed immediately or in the near future. The strategies were therefore scheduled to occur
immediately (year 1 of the project, i.e., in 1997), and also allowed to be postponed to the third, fifth, or
seventh year of the project in order to test the effect of postponement on the economic returns. Future
overlay interventions (5 cm A.C ) were also triggered to occur at a roughness level of 4 IRI.
24.    In the analysis, the base strategy (alternative 1) included routine maintenance with 100% patching
of potholes and reconstruction when roughness reaches a very high level, i.e., 11 IRI. The other four
maintenance options to which each cell or group of homogeneous roads were subjected were generally the
following, depending on traffic level and the condition of the pavement:
(i)    for asphalt concrete pavements in good condition, routine maintenance was applied during the first
four years, followed by a 5 cm thick asphalt concrete overlay scheduled to be placed in year 5, or
7, or 9, or 11. Future policies included another 5 cm of A.C carpet whenever roughness reaches 4
IRI. For surface-dressed pavements, and following the first four years of routine maintenance,
slurry seals or surface treatments were used for low traffic levels, with an option of a 5 cm A.C
overlay for medium -low traffic and weak pavements; these operations being scheduled to occur in
year 5, or 7, or 9, or I1, with future actions identical to that selected for asphalt concrete
pavements;
(ii)   for asphalt concrete pavements in fair or critical condition, thin to medium asphalt concrete
overlays, ranging in thickness from 3 cm to 8 cm were scheduled to take place in years 1, 3, 5, and
7; for surface-dressed pavements also in fair or critical condition, surface treatments for low
traffic levels or 5 cm thick asphalt concrete overlays for low to medium-low traffic levels were
scheduled in years 1, 3, 5, and 7. Future maintenance policy again included the placing of 5 cm
A.C carpet whenever roughness reaches 4 IRI;
(iii)   for asphalt concrete pavements in poor condition, thick asphalt concrete overlays ranging from 5
cm to 12 cm in thickness were scheduled to occur in years 1, 3, 5 and 7; overlays were generally
placed after the recycling of the upper 5 cm of the existing pavement. For surface dressed
pavements, only reconstruction solutions using double-surface dressings for very low traffic or 5 to
8 cm thick asphalt concrete wearing course for low and medium traffic respectively, were analyzed
and scheduled to occur in years 1, 3, 5, and 7 of the analysis period. Likewise, future actions
included a 5 cm thick overlay to be placed when roughness reaches 4 IRI.



- 79 -                                           Annex 7
E. Results of Economic Evaluation
25.     First Phase Study. The HDM  study carried out for               Fig 1. Evolution of Program NPV with
the whole network of 38,566 km highlighted the magnitude                         Budget Constraint
of the economic issue:                                             9.65
(i)  road users spend about US$  16 to  17 billion    0 9.55 5 '  "'""''"'  
annually to operate their vehicles on the paved            ' .5                .........
federal network, i.e., an amount equivalent to nearly                    .   .......      ......
twice the capital asset value of the infrastructure;    X  9
9.3
(ii)  the costs born by road users for vehicle operation        99.251
and depreciation outweigh by far the costs incurred           200    225    250       275    300
by the government: road users spend between 40                 Annual Budget Constraint (1197-2001)
and 100 times more, depending on whether budgets                Fig 2. Evolution of Future Resource
are constrained or not;                                                      needs
(iii) the  economic  return  accruing  to  society  from    N                        .," ...............
maintaining  the  network  is  considerable. The    1                     .....
Project Net Present Value (NPV) is about US$3.4    c             ............
billion under the selected budget constraint.  The    *           .". ,,.   ,,. ,*,
Intemal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) is about   <   1'60   "
104%. The discounted benefit/cost ratio is about 2;     2      200    225    250      275    300
so    Annual Budget Constraint (1997-2001)
(iv) the average road user saves about two dollars in
vehicle  operating  costs  for every  extra  dollar       Fig 3. Variation of % Network with IlR >4 in
invested by the government in rehabilitation works           Function of Budget Constraint (2001)
10
on the network.                                         A 9 
E  87   . ... fi .- .............................
(v)  If the project was not undertaken, then by 2002:         c6  ' '"'          "'''''"''""
<3) would decrease from  a current 43%  to    l  27 N -- ''z    '''    ooo2zen'n
critical to poor condition  (IRI  >4) would20                     25     20     27     30
increase from  a current 15%  to about 55%;BugtCnratUSMYr
thus  reverting  to  the  bad  situation  that              Fig4. Evolution of Maintenance
prevailed throughout the last decade (with a
proportion  of poor to very poor condition,            900% :1    . .,...... ...I......
70
*  road user costs would increase by about 5 %,   W  50o%%           |   ||.i"..  .|
with  unit average  vehicle  operating  costs   t  40%   :  -   4|
rising  from  an actual 42  cents per km  to    x 30°%%   f  sm<2 - oo   2    n*4'
nearly 44 cents in year 2002.  Road users              tO% .fi...|i"||s,..2'4g§..gs
would collectively and annually spend about                 1979 1984 19386, 1989 1992 1996 2001
US$300  to  350  million  more  than  if the                          Year
project was implemented;



- 80 -                                       Annex 7
the annual resources needed, as of year 2002, to rehabilitate the network would be in the
order of US$630 million during a five-year period (compared to a current US$320 million
under a no-budget constraint scenario).
26.    The  results  of the  economic  evaluations  are
summarized in Figures 1 to 3, which show for each of the                        (Ion   >5)
five budget scenarios: (a) the NPV  of implementing the          30 .. ...... ..
project according to the optimum strategies recommended by       2S         ...        ....I.........
the Expenditure Budget Model; (b) the amount of annual                                 . 20........
resources needed as from year 2002; and (c) the proportion of   0    ....... ..:
roads in critical to poor condition (IRI > 4) at the end of the                             . . ..
project. For comparison purposes, Figures 4 to 7 show the X
evolution of the maintenance condition of the network, of           *  ... s -            .
vehicle operating costs and total transport costs on the paved    197    1       1       200    2010
network over the period 1975-2000 (as derived from  the           1970   1980   1990   2000   2010
relationship between these parameters and roughness).                           Year
27.    On the basis of these results, the fourth-best scenario      Fig 6. Evolution of Unit VOC on
was selected for the following reasons:                                     Paved Network
m  0.425 -
(i)  the level of financial resources expected to be   0   0.42 -         ..   . ......
available to DNER in the next 4 to 5 years, for the      0.415             . E   .
rehabilitation  of the highway  system  (excluding        o
* 0.41 -  . .. .. .             .
routine   maintenance,  operational  and   safety          .
improvements,  and  contingency  funds  for  the          .05       .........
highways to be concessioned) is estimated at about   >    OA- :       ........_     .........
US$225 million per year;                                    1970   1980  1990  2000  2010
Year
(ii) the rehabilitation activities implied by this scenario
(about 14,150 km of civil works over the next 4 to 5       Fig 7. Evolution of Total Transport
years) are compatible with the institutional capacity
of DNER and the participating DERs which will  4>  16.7- ::::           ..........................
prepare, procure, and supervise the works;                                . 16 6.m
01    16.5    *:*:K::::::.. .  .......
(iii) 'the second phase study", and within the limit of that   0  164. .:X:<: .
scenario,  shows  that  a  fair  distribution  of   >  16.3  .  ....       .
expenditures between DNER  and state-transferred    0  16.2-     X.
networks enables to arrive a mutually acceptable         16.1  : ; : :.tj:: t :i
solution (para 30 to 33); and,                             1970   1980   1990   2000   2010
Year
(iv) selecting  more expensive strategies or scenarios
would result in a very marginal improvement both in the level of service provided (average
roughness, percentage of network in poor condition) and in the additional benefits or Net Present
Value accrued to society (less than 2%).
28.    The project benefit and cost flows given in  Table 9 of this Annex shows that implementing
scenario 4 would yield a Net Present Value of about US$ 3.4 billion over a period of about ten years,
considering only the investments made during the project implementation period (i.e., US$900 million). If



- 81 -                                   Annex 7
the strategy recommended by this scenario was applied during the full twenty years period of analysis, with
annual investments of about US$180 million, as from year 2002, then the Net Present Value of that
program would be in the order of US$9.4 billion, with a rate of return of 104%.
29.    The results of the HDM economic evaluation were finally translated into a catalog of technical
solutions to be applied to each cell of the matrices, as a function of pavement condition and traffic, (Annex
2) and also into the project Cost and Financing Table 1 (Annex 8). They both correspond to a budget
constraint of US$225 million per year for rehabilitation works over 14,150 km of roads.
30.    Second-Phase Study.  The first phase of the economic evaluation indicated that the most
appropriate budget constraint level to be considered corresponded to annual resources of US$225 million
during the next 4 to 5 years. Applied to the whole network, and irrespective of the results of negotiations
with the states, such resources would enable to rehabilitate about 3,000 km of the network to be transferred
to the states, without attending - because of financial constraints - sections of roads which already show
obvious signs of fatigue and distress. Discussions held on that basis with the state govermnents confirmed
the concern the states have in receiving segments of highways in critical condition without proper
rehabilitation, and it became obvious that the decentralization process would only be successful if the
rehabilitation program for the state-transferred network comprised about 4,000 km of roads. This caused
DNER to carry out a follow-up study aimed at determining the budget sharing ratio and corresponding
strategies (within the overall constraint of US$225 million per year) that would be mutually acceptable.
31.    The second-phase study consisted in applying separately to the two networks (remaining federal
and to be transferred) - each one being properly characterized by its own matrix of traffic and pavement
condition - various levels of budget constraints and determining - within the global US$225 million limit
annually - the most adequate distribution of resources that would satisfy state's requirements, while
enabling DNER to improve the condition of its own network. To that effect, about 10 pairs of budget
sharing ratios were analyzed and submitted to new HDM/EBM evaluations ( ratios ranging from 195/30 to
155/70 million of dollars, for DNER and State-transferred networks respectively).
32.    The results of these evaluations are illustrated in Figures 8 to 15. For each network and for the
various budget constraint scenarios, are indicated the evolution of NPV (both for a 20-year program and
for the project alone), the total length of roads that can be rehabilitated during the project, the amount of
annual resources needed in the future, and the resulting roughness condition of the networks, An
examination of these trends led to the conclusion that the most satisfactory solution was to implement the
strategies corresponding to a budget sharing ratio of US$ 175/50 million per year. As can be seen in
Figures 11 and 15 such strategies will allow an overall reduction in the proportion of roads in critical or
poor condition (IRI>4) from a current figure of 18% to less than 5% in year 2002. The strategies involve
altogether the rehabilitation of some 14,200 km of roads, i.e., about 37% of the whole network (3,800 km
pertaining to the network to be transferred). For the federal system the reduction of the proportion of roads
in critical to poor condition would be from 15% to 5% and for the network to be devolved from 23% to
about 8%.
33.    Finally, the design solutions for various traffic classes and road conditions, along with the optimal
year of intervention and average unit costs, were represented in the form of Catalogs of structures which
are strictly applicable to the budget constraint scenario taken into account (US$175 million for the federal
network, and US$50 million for the state-transferred network). The technical solutions proposed should
normally provide a satisfactory level of service over a period of 10 to 15 years, whereupon a new overlay
will be required. The catalogs are shown in Annex 2 'Maintenance Strategy"



- 82 -                                                                Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Graphic Illustration of Second Phase Study
Fig 8. Effect of Budget Constraint on NPV                       Fig 9. Needed Resources as of 2002 as a
(Federal Network)                                         function of Budget Constraint
Program                                       Project
7.75                                             3124
o   7.7             Program                          2.9             140
o                                                  1
7.66                                             2.               3
D 7.6.                                             2.-             i
7.5 -2.513
z  745 -                             Federal   :    2
7.4                                             2_3  '_                                _   __12_ _ _ _,   _ _ _
O, -      _ o  ~-                                     5 ,      E  S  E  8  150  160  170  ISO     ISo      200
Annual Resource Constraint US$M                             Budget ConstraInt (1997-2001) USSM
Fig 10. Length that can be Rehabilitated In fu                Fig 11. % Network with IRI > 4 as a function of
Budget Constraint                                                 Constraint
12000                                                           20 p f
n   1105W                                      raAc15z
S    esoo                                                     s   0
150     16o      170     190      190      200              150       1so      170       180      190      200
Budget Constralnt USSM                                      Annual Resource Constraint US$M
Fig 12. Evolution of NPV with Budget Constraint                 Fig 13. USSM needed as of 2002 as a function o
Network)                                                        Constraint
Program                                        ProJert
19       P   roiect.........1                                   So 0
1.75.-                                             0o               4
0.7                                             01
>    7           w             rga                                   40          
Z  1.65                               Tramnher       0 2             3          Trander
30  35  40  455055 60 65  70                                 30          40          50         60          70
Annual Resource Constralnt USSM                               Budget Constraint (1997-2001) USSM
Fig 14. Km of Rehabilitation as a function of                 Fig.15: % Network with IRI > 4 as a function of
Constraint                                                     Constraint
6000
30        40          60         60         70               30          40         50          60          70
Budget Constri nt USSM                                     Budget Con traint (107.2001) USSM



- 83 -                                       Annex 7
F. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
34.    Effect of higher costs: A 20%  increase in rehabilitation costs or a 20%  decrease in vehicle
operation benefits (resulting from either lower traffic volumes or higher VOC) would only marginally affect
the Internal Economic Rate of Return and the Net Present Value: IERR would still be in the order of 88%
and NPV would decline by 26%. The NPV would only reach zero if the capital costs would be multiplied
by a factor of about 4, or traffic would be divided by a factor of similar magnitude, which is very unlikely.
35.    Effect of delays in execution. In the event that the project would be implemented over a six-year
period instead of four to five years, the Net Present Value would decline from US$3.4 billion to 3.2 billion
(i.e., a 4% reduction), the annual resources needed in the future would rise from US$176 million to 206
million (i.e., a 17% increase), and the average roughness at the end of the implementation period would
increase by 25%, from 3.2 to about 4 (i.e., a 3% increase in VOC/veh-km from US$0.41 to 0.424).
36.    Effect of overloading. The effect of overloading was investigated using also the HDM model. For
the economic evaluation, conservative equivalent standard axle (ESA) loads were selected for the heavy and
articulated trucks to reflect the likelihood of overloading on the network. Values of 6.7 and 12 standard 18
kips axle load factors were adopted respectively. In parallel, another analysis was carried out to determine
the impact of overloading by assuming another scenario in which no overloading occurs, meaning that full
compliance with the Brazilian law on vehicle weights and axle loads was met. Accordingly, ESA factors of
1.8 and 3.4 were adopted for the heavy and articulated trucks, respectively. In addition, the effect of
overloading was analyzed under a no-budget constraint and a US$225 million per year budget constraint
scenarios.
Fig 16. Evolution of Costs and Benefits as
37.    The results of the analyses can be summarized             a function of Overloading under
as follows:                                                            Budget Constraint
0   9000 -  .....................
(i) under  budget constraint, the  presence  of   '   8000           .... :...
overloading requires an increase of 1 to 2 cm of      7000
asphalt concrete overlay over almost 30% of the            .       . 6000 - :  .
5000.. . . .      . . . . . . . . .
network to be rehabilitated;                        4000
e 3000... .
(ii) as a result, the government needs to invest 13%    O  2000
more over a 20-year period. Total investments            0 0       1          2         3
amount to US$4.5 billion instead of US$3.9                       None        Severe   Very
billion,  with  unit  rehabilitation  costs  of                 Overloading Scenario
US$5,750/km/yr instead of US$5 ,085/krn/yr;
Fig 17. Evolution of Costs and Benefits as
a function of Overloading under
(iii) also, overloading does not allow a substantial                No-Budget Constraint
portion of the network (about 15%) which is in
critical  or  very  poor  condition,  to  be   X   10    :.
strengthened quickly;                           8; 6000 I:eBe ts..
6000             ...:....
(iv) under a no-budget constraint scenario, the   m    4000
impact is less severe, though still substantial:   X 20
2000  ....   .
investment needs are increased by nearly 10%,   .         0         1          2         3
while additional overlay thickness is necessary                   None      Severe    Very
Severe
over 20% of the network to be strengthened.                    Overloading Scenario



- 84 -                                           Annex 7
Also, because of the unconstrained resources, all
sections in critical or poor condition can be               Fig 18. BenefitlCos Ratio as a function
repaired within the next 4 to 5 years;                                 of Overloading
2 .2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(v)  these  results only  apply to  the  network  in           2          ............o....t
question and particularly with regards to its                   ...........
structural strength  (mean  modified  structural a"
number of 5.5, as derived from deflection tests).   X   1.6                     wfnbant
Had the network been less strong, a greater                                             ...-.... . 
additional investment cost would be expected.               1                 23
None           Severe      Very Severe
38.    The impact on the national economy is very                            Overloading Scenano
different; the benefits accrued to society are much larger
under the overloading scenario. Over a 20-year period program  of  sustained investment, Net Present
Values are increased by 20% to 25% whether there is a budget constraint or not. Also, whatever the
budget-constraint scenario, Benefit/Cost ratios are higher when overloading occurs; with and without
overloading B/C ratios are 1.7 compared to 1.5 under budget-constraint, and 1.94 compared to 1.6 under
no-budget constraint. Overloading, to the extent taken into account in the analysis, results in vehicle
operating costs 25% to 53% lower than in the case of no-overloading. These conclusions are consistent
with previous studies that show that total transport costs decrease dramatically when legal maximum single
axle loads are raised from 8 - 10 tons up to 13 - 15 tons.
Table 5: Effect of Overloading on Cost and Benefits
Overloading Scenario
ESA Factor     Budget Constraint Total Investment Cost to Society   Net Benefits accrued  BenefiUtCost
Appreciation  Heavy truck Artic. truck for Road Agency  over next 20 vrs/USSM  over next 20 vrs/USSM    Ratios
None           1.8        3.4          Yes                  3982                    6109           1.53
None                                   No                   4201                    6573           1.57
Severe         6.7        12          Yes                  4500                     7609           1.69
Severe                                 No                   4571                   8886            1.94
Very severe     10        16          Yes                  4500                     8044           1.79
Very severe                            No                   4573                   9927            2.17
G. Fiscal Impact Analysis
39.    The Federal Government will benefit from the reduced recurrent costs of maintaining the highways
rehabilitated under the project and from the avoided much higher costs of future reconstruction, as well as
from the transfer of highways responsibilities to state governments and/or to private concessionaires who
would recover costs through tolls. Under the conservative assumption that, without the project, DNER
would not carry out substantial rehabilitation work in the next five years, the fiscal impact of the project is
not significant over 1997-2001, but it becomes very positive thereafter, when heavy reconstruction would
be needed if the project was not implemented. The state governments will receive additional periodic and
routine  maintenance  expenditure  responsibilities  through  the  decentralization  component.   These
responsibilities, however, will be minimized by the rehabilitation and resurfacing works to be carried out
under the project. They will be reduced through the concession program, which will transfer rehabilitation
and maintenance expenditures, and capacity investments on federal and state highways, to road users.
Overall, the impact of the project on the states' finances is not significant (Table 9.b hereinafter).



- 85-                                                        Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 6: Brazil Federal Network Condition and Characteristics (1996)
Network Length per Surface Tvye                                     60000
Surface type    Length (km)    %                                    50000
.~40000
Paved              52000       78%                 '300
Unpaved            15000       22%
10000    E             -               :
Total              67000      100%                                      0     -
Paved      Unpaved
Surface type
Distribution of base and wearina courses on Paved roads
Material                 Base         Wearing course               4000
Km         %         Km     %                                                                |
Granular           48000       92%        0                         30000
Soil cement        4000        8%         0                      E
Bitumen macadam                0%         0     0%                * 20000
Soil lime                      0%         0                         o1000 *    < -E
Asphalt concrete                        38150  73%                     oE
Surface treatment                       13700  26%                           Asphalt     Surface      Cement
Cement concrete                          150   0%                            Concrot     r realrnent  Concret
Total              52000                52000                                    type o     ing course
Evolution of Paved network over the last 30 years                       60000
%increase
E    40000
Year               Length  per year    Kmfyear                    E
1960               8000                                                20000 -
1970               15000       8.7         700                                               -       -
1980               40000       16.7       2500                             0               1980  1990 1996
1990               50000       2.5        1000                                            Year
1996              52000        0.7         333
Aae of Paved network                                                 25000
Year of                                % within                     20000
construction     Age (yrs) Length (km)  range                     E
.X15000
1990-95             0-5       2000       4%                      s.
1985-90            5-10       7000       13%                                                       .
10-15      3000       6%                          soo
1975-80            15-20      15000      29%                            0 1                     :
1960-75            20-30      25000      48%                                   04-   5-10  10-15  15-20  20-40
Total                         52000     100%                                              Age, years
Paved network structural strength                                   30000
Structural Numbe Length (km)    %                                 E 20000
2-3                  0         0%                     ~[I
3-4                2600        5%                               0110000
4-5                20800       40%                                      ol
5-6                26000       50%                                      0
6-7  2600  5%                                              ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2-3  3-   5- -s   6-7  7-8
6-7                2600        5%                              |                     Structural number
7-8                  0         0%
Total              52000      100%



- 86 -                                                         Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 7: Brazil Federal Network Condition and Traffic (1996)
Deflection distribution on paved network
Deflection (m Length (km)     %                              3.0000         .
0-0.3           364          1%                              25000
2 20000
0.3-0.4         9984         19%
0.4-0.5        27092         52%                          s 15000
OC10000
0.5-0.6        11960         23%                              5000
0.6-0.8         2548         5%                                  0  -        I   L.           rn
0.8-1.0          52          0%                                            U      'A
Total          52000        100%                                             Defection mm
Roughness distribution on the network
20000
IRI              Km           %
0-2             5345         10%                           E15000                       .. .. ..
2-3            18065         35%
3-4            16150         31%                            ,
-j
4-5             6873         13%                               5000
5-6             2227         4%
6-7             1113         2%                                   o
>7              2227         4%                                       0-2   2-3   3-4   4-5   5-6   6-7   >7
Roughness, IRI
Total          52000        100%
20000
Maintenance condition of the network
Surface cond     Km           %100
2
Excellent       7174         14%
Good           13752         26%                         s        jl
Fair           17201         33%                          w  5000
Poor            9430         18%
Very poor       4443         9%                                  Excellent   Good     Fair    Poor      Very
Total          52000        100%                                                                       Poor
Maintenance Condition
Daily Traffic distribution on the network
ADT              Km           %                               15000
<1000           9573         18%
1000-2000      14593        28%
2000-3000      11059         21%
co  0
3000-4000       5020         10%                            4)
4000-5000       3991         8% o
5000-10000      6117         12%                                          °          o .      °         °
>10000          1647         3% v
0%                                                Average Daily Traffic
Total          52000        100%
Vehicle fleet distribution on the network
% Cars      % Pick-up   % Bus        % Small trucks  % Medium trucks  % Heavy trucks  % Articulated trucks
Paved            30           19           5            7.4              7.3              19            12.3



- 87 -                                                                   Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Table 8: Matrices of Networks Condition and Traffic
Internatlonal Roughness Index IRI mlkm
<2.5             2.5clRI<3          3<IRI 3.5          3.5 lRI<4.5    IRI>4.5
Surface         Traffic                                                       Deflection mm
Type     Class       ADT       c OA5    >0A5    < OAS    > OA5    c OAS    >:0.45    < OA5    > 0.45    < OA5    > OA5
Code
A         B         C         D         E         F         G         H         I         J       Total      %
Lenath km
Network to remain Federal
Asphalt       I       < 1200       58        581       156       405       149       785        81       903        23       336       3477      18%
Concrete      2      1200-1800    466        592       434       673       334       324       379       461        36       187       3886      20%
3      1800-2300    795        407       628       345       452       291       437       446       81        87       3969      20%
4     2300-3100    564         309       317       346       303       235       422       313       139       171      3119      16%
5     3100-4800    696         178       755       74        436       63        421       159       204       114      3100      16%
6     4800-10000    377        18        302       111       315       29        150       135       187       82        1706      9%
7      > 10000       109        6        47         5        31        19        27        t1        36        37        328       2%
Sub-total    km         3065      2091      2639      1959      2020      1746      1917      2428      706       1014      19585    100%
%              26%                 23%                 19%                 22%                 9%
Surface       1       < 1200       148       130       223       292       472       624       584       775       201       188       3637      36%
Dressing      2      1200-1800    267        379       411       354       405       374       550       671       204       780       4395      43%
3     1800-2300      98        288       52        242       205       163       86        326       358       258      2076      21%
Sub-total    km         513       797       686       888       1082      1161      1220      1772      763       1226     10108    100%
%              13%                 16%                22%                 30%                  20%
Total       km        3578      2888      3325      2847      3102      2907      3137      4200      1469      2240      29693     63%
%             22%                  21%                 20%                 25%                 12%
Network to be transferred
Asphalt       1       < 1200       59        136       98        128        6        117       58         45        56       203       906       23%
Concrete      2      1200-1800    132        190       109       28        71        46        44        86         13       134       853       21%
3     1800-2300    110         270       104       41        36        20        68        83        95        155       982      24%
4     2300-3100    225         148       24        66        22        35        71        69        235       131       1026     26%
5     3100-4800      21         6        61        30        20        20        29        11        36         9        243       6%
Sub-total    km         547       750       396       293       155       238       270       294       435       632       4010      100%
%             32%                  17%                 10%                 14%                 27%
Surface       1       < 1200       204       53        360       168       475       123       270       227        93       232       2205      42%
Dressing      2      1200-1800    253        254       159       341       145       186       25        543        32       317       2255      43%
3      1800-2300     59        137       44        100       54        41        30        99        15        183       762      15%
Sub-total    km         516       444       563       609       674       350       325       869       140       732       5222     100%
%              18%                22%                 20%                 23%                  17%
Total       km        1063      1194       959       902       829       588       595      1163       575      1364      9232      20%
%             23%                  20%                 15%                 19%                 21%
Network to be concessioned
Asphalt       1    < 1200          29        132        3        62         1        31         14       32         0         6        310       4%
Concrete      2      1200-1800     180       140        13        2         6         0         0         8         1         17       367       5%
3     1800-2300    193         51        66        16        15        25        134        2        32        25        559       7%
4     2300-3100    387         98        42        94        48        113       74        145       30        155       1186     15%
5     3100-4800    573         268       289       134       330       93        490       156       75        112      2520      31%
6     4800-10000    456        194       329       110       350       46        368       77        481       168      2579      32%
7      > 10000       52        10        75         7        56         3        110       40        110       78        541       7%
Sub-total    km         1870      893       817       425       806       311       1190      460       729       561       8062      100%
%             34%                  15%                 14%                20%                  16%
Surface       2      1200-1800      0         0         0         1         0         0         0         19        0         35        55       59%
Dressing      3      1800-2300      0         2         0         0         0         3         4         7         5         18        39       41%
Sub-total    km          0         2         0         1         0         3         4         26        5         53        94      100%
%              r.2%                1%                  3%                  32%                 62%
Total       km        1870       896       817       426       806       314      1194       486       734       614      8156      17%
%             34%                  15%                 14%                 21%                 17%
Global
Length        km        6511      4977      5101      4175      4737      3809      4926      5849      2778      4218      47081    100%
%             24%                  20%                 18%                23%                  15%
Nota: Were excluded from the analysis about 4,150 km currently under rehabilitation contracts, and 850 km already under concession contracts.



- 88 -                                                        Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Fig 9. Surface Condition and Traffic Volumes on the Networks
Traffic on the Network to remain          Roughness on the Network to             Surface Type on the Network to
Km              Federal                 Km            remain Federal                          remain Federal
3500    f                                7000
3000                                     0000
2500                                     25
1-Ill                     ~~~~~~~~~~~5000
2000       :    :
1500   N                                                B          
000                                 Ii      25-3~~~~~~~~~~00
!2oF                                     0 Do<C
v  -  e>>  nY  <q   ,,°     <2.,  ~~~~~~~~~~2As3   3-3.5   3.54.5  s
0  o                       ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~2.5  ~   5 4.5 4
JOT Claases                                Roughness IRI
Traffic on the network to be          Roughness on the Network to be            Surface Type on Network to be
Transferred                              Transferred                             Transferred
Km
Km                                       2500
1200
2000
1000                                           II%
2000+                                    1;1          1'      u 15 200 0 8 ,-'1 .. 1  .0'
000 liii                            II~~~~~~~~~~00
410    i                             1000                                -                -
!2LI                                                                                         D  
~ s   8 <° s s     °  8 ;  . Fs   2    253  3-3.5   3.54.5
ADT Classes                              Roughness RI
Traffic on the Network to be           Roughness on the Network to be          Surface Type on Network to be
Concessioned                              Concessioned                           Concessioned
Km
Km300
3600020
2500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
2000
5o0
500  nIl~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-2.5  2.5-3  3-3.5 3.54.5  S4.5
ADT Classes                  ~~~~~~~Roughness RI



- 89 -                                                                Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Costs and Benefits Flows for the Project
Table 9: Economic Analysis
Total      Totai                 Economic       Economic               Economic                 Economic     Total    Ecantac
Flnancial  Financial   Financia    Economic    Economic  Ndt             Net     Economic       Not         Total       Net      Economic      Net
CapItal  Recurrent    Cost      Costs      Benoils    Benofts  Cost  Bendits    Benefts      Benefms     Economic    Bonerts  BSn1I4.3   Bandts
Yew    USSM      USS       USSM        USSM        ussM       ussm   +20%    USSM        .20%        uSSId      Cost *4.3    usSm        USsM       ussm
1       -225    -95.00    -320.00      -256.00     -100 00      -356 -307   -407.20          -80    -336         -1100.8   -1200.8  -23.255814   -279.26
2       -225    -80.00    -305.00      -244.00     602 00        358 -293      309       481.60    237 6          -1049 2     -447.2     140.00   -104.00
3       -225    -83.00    -308.00      -246.40     297.40         51  -296     1.72      237.92    -8.48        -1059.52    -762.12       69.16   -177.24
4       -225    -80.00    -305.00      -244.00     923.00        679 -293      630       738.40    494 4          -1049.2    -126.2      214.65    -29.35
5          0     97.00      -97.00      -77.60     856.60        779  -93      763       685.28    60768          -33368    522.92       199.21    121.61
6          0    -80.00      -80.00      -64.00     94800         884  -77      871       758.40    6944            -275.2    672.80      220.47    158.47
7          0    -81.00      -81.00      -64.80    1.055.80       991  -78      978       844.84    779.84         -278.64    777.16      245.53    180.73
8          0    -79.00      -79.00      -63.20    1,159 20      1096  -76    1,083       927.36    864.16        -27176    887.44        269.58    206.38
9          0    -87.00      -87.00      -69.60    1,271.60      1202  -84    1,188      1,017.28    94768         -299.28    972.32      295.72    226.12
10         0    -78.00       -78.00      -82.40    1,364.40     1302  -75    1,290      1,091.52    1029.12       -268.32    1,096.1     317.30    254.90
NPV   (765.41)  (536.62)   -1302.03   (1,041.62)    4,478.69    3,437          3,229    (1,249.95)   2,541.36    (3,582.95)    (0 25)   (4,65.05)    (0.06)
IERR                                                             106%            88%                     84%                     12%                   12%
Table 9b: Fiscal Impact Analysis
Federal Govenrnent                           _Stt_                              e Govenorpnts 1/
_ _tl Prctest                             Wthout Proled                     _       _       MWth Prject_
eaI r   Rehab   MaiM.    Debt Svc  Concessions 21   total     Rehab   Maoit.  Tota     Net moad      RRdhab      Mairt.   Concession 21   Total    Net hrsc
1997       12        95                                 107            112       112            5                                                        0
1998       45        74           2                     121            112       112           -9                                                        0
1999       62        74          15         -40         111            112       112            1                                                        0
2000       65        66         35          -60         106            112       112            6                                                        0
2001       66        80          80         -80         146            112       112          -34          30          20         -40         10       -10
2002      135        65         100         -90         210       630  112       742          532          30          20         -40         10       -10
2003      135        65         120         -90         230       630  112       742          512          30          20        -40          10       -10
2004      135        65         150         -90         260       630  112       742          482          30          20        -40          10       -10
2005      135        65         145         -90         255       630  112       742          487          30          20        -40          10       -10
2006      135        65         140         -90         250       630  112       742          492          30          20        -40          10       -10
1/ For transferred highways only
2/ Rehabilitation and maintenance expenditures under concessions
(capacity investments not included)



- 90 -                                                       Annex 7
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Table 10: Summary Tables of Significant Parameters
Effects of Budaet Constraints on NPV and Condition of Network (38.567 km)
Budget                                Internal      Annual                                       No. of km that
Constr./yr,    NPV of      NPV of     Economic    Resources        % length with     Average          can be
USSM,1997-   Program,      Project,     Rate of    needed 2002-   IRI>4, in year    Roughness at  rehabilitated in
2001      USSbillion    US$billion    Return %   2016, US$M         2002       end of project IRI   1997-2001
200         9.256       3.267         107           186             10              331            11609
225         9.415       3.436         104           176              6              3.21           14149
250         9,509        3.640         99           167              3              3.12           15810
275         9.56         4.100         95           162              1              3.01           17242
300         9.609        4.100         92           163              0              2.92           19644
Effects of Budget Allocation Level on NPV. Future Financial Needs. Rehab. Program, and Condition of Network
Network to remain Federal 2S,335 km
20 years    10 years
analysis    analysis      Internal      Annual                         Average
period NPV of period NPV of  Economic    resources                     Roughness at  No. of km that be
Allocation,   program,     project,     Rate of    needed 2002-  %length with IRI  end of project,  rehabilitated km
US$MIyr    USSbillion    US$billion    Return, %   2016, USSM    >4 in year 2000       IRI        in 1997-2001
150         7.518        2.506        111           142             15.1            3.33            8620
155         7.549       2.565         111           142             14.4            3.3             9160
160         7594        2.627         110           140             13.1            3.27            9570
165         7.593       2.632         106           139             12.6            3.22            9702
170         7.619       2.706         105           137             11.2            3.19           10135
175         7.659        2.796        104           135             10.5     :       3.18          10368
180         7.66        2.765         103           133             9.3             3.15           10725
185         7 693        2.84         102           134             8.6             3.13           10948
190         7.706       2.869         101           130             7.2             3.07           11380
195         7.725       2.891         100           129             6.5             3.05           11576
200         7.732       2.916          98           129             6.3             3.01           11992
Network to be Transferred, 8232 km
Internal                                                   No. of km that
NPV of      NPV of      Economic                                    Average IRI at     can be
Allocation,   program,     project,     Rate of    USSM needed  % length with IRI  end of project,  rehabilitated In
US$M/yr    US$billion    USSbillion    Return %    2002-2016    >4 in year 2000        IRI          1997-2001
30          1.69        06861         132           48             21.1            3 59            2205
35         1.683        0583          110           47             17.6            353             2662
40         1 721        0.608         108           45             15.5            3.42            3100
45          1.74        0.626         103           43             17.9             3.4            3491
50         1.75         0.64          97            4       1       54             3.33            3781:
55         1.772        0.698         95            39             15.1            3.24            4261
60         1.802        0.771         92            37             11.1            3.12            5150
65         1 813        0.751         89            36              6.6            3.05            5673
70         1 828        0.786         87            37              5.4            2.96            6423
Evolution of Roughness over the next ten years. under Budget Constraint
% network with IRI > 4(Smooth curve)
Fed. with    State with     Overall with
Year      USSMI25         US$50          US$225
1996         15.3         28.4             18
1997         13.5         18.4            14.7
1998         11.8         14.6             13
1999         10            13             10.7
2000         8.3           10.8             9
2001         6.5           9.2             7.1
2002         4.8           7.6             5.5
2003         3.2           6.5              4
2004         1.5           4.3             2.2
2005         0.5           3.2              1
2006          0            2.7             0.6



- 91 -                                                          Annex 8
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
Table 1. Project Monitoring Indicators and Targets
Obiectves, Components           Indicators                              1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002
A. Development Objectives
1. Improve Condition of Highway Network
Federal Network in Poor Condition % length with iRi> 5(1)               12       10        7        4       2        1
Good Condtion  % length with IRI c 3                     34       40       44       46       49      52
Transferred Net. in Poor Condition % length with IRI > 5                20       17       12        7       4        2
Good Condition  % length with IRI < 3                     36      36       41       42       44      45
2. Reduce Road Transport Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs       average HDMVOC (UScentlveh-km) (2)       42 0    41.5     41 0    40.5    40.0    39.5
3. Decentralize Highway Responsibilities
Highway Transfers to States   thousand km transferred (cumulated)     -         50       8.0    12.0    15.0    17.5
4. Increase Private Sector Management and Financing
Federal Highway Concessions    thousand km tendered (cumulated) (3)     0.8     2.0      4.0      6.0      80     10.0
Maintenance Managt. Contracts  percent of federal paved network length (4)  -     5        5       20      50       75
5. Strengthen Highway Agencies' Maintenance Capabilities
DNER Design & Supervision    max. average rehab. cost ($OOOkm)         90       90       85       80      75       75
DER Planning & Programming    nb.ofDERs with PMS (5)                     5        8       10       12      14       15
B. Implementation Performance
1. Decentralization Component
Decentralization Agreements  nb.of states (cumulated)                    5       '0       15       18      18       1B
Delegation Agreements         nb of states (cumulated)                   3        7        7        7       7        7
State Subprolect Preparation  km contracted works (cumulated)          100    1250      2650    3800    3800    3800
Implementation   km executed works (cumulated)              -    500      1500    2650    3800    3800
2. Concession Development Component
Technical Assistance          nb of man-months (cumulated)              15       60       90      120     120      120
Training of Staff             nb. of trainee-weeks (cumulated)          25      100      150      200     200      200
Studies                       km of studies completed (3)             2000    4D00      6000    8000   10000   10000
3. Federal Highway Component
Federal Subproject Preparation   km contracted works (cumulated)      2000    5000      7500   10000   10000   10000
Implementation   km executed works (cumulated)           250    2000      5000    7500   10000   10000
Operational & Safety lmprovts.    maximum average cost (USS$000km)      53      5.3       5.3     5.3      53      5.3
Environmental Rehabilitation  maximum average cost (US$OOOJkm)          4 7     4 7       4.7     4.7      4.7     4.7
Routine Maintenance Paved Net  DNER budget (US$million)                110       89       82       75      68       63
4. Project Funding
Counterpart Funds            treasury transfers (US$m. cumul.)           5       44      120      185     250      250
Bank                          IBRD disbursements US$m. cumul)           20       92      250      375     500      500
Co-financing                  IDB disbursements (US$m cumul.)             -      92      250      375     500      500
1) IRI. Irdemational Roughness Index
2) HDM VOC: HOM Vehicle Operasog Cost
3) Of which 5000 km are under the respons4biity of the Stle Govermnens
4) Except concessions
5) PMS: Pavement Management System



v   g   °   w  X  n n X "  g o D C D 3 C 0 U-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -                                                                                                                                   -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -
C          05                    . 3              4      M-       W f                                w     H     t OXM-~~ g                                                                                                          - s   5    2       3>£   D~    7=  =7 jZ  XZ  gg  g   4g  °   .  .  .   .  . .   .
O 8   D 0   e   =                        X _ < < z:                S = 4 ^             3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3~~~ 3 3 3                                                                       . . . . .    .                          
000  r!                                          3 o   J o                0  0 W  o -.  -o   044,4 O4Om                o      -<oomml,    m                 W -                      7                                      t
--        -~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ 
k  0        :~~j:~~-j  ~:~;J  ~~~sss5:~~db0K
.-.  .  .  ..                w. .............. .                          55       oo       5 . .- ....                  
CD
*   S  N  oo  i<l                N  O               0- 0 o-   o              r o   oo,   ~oow                    Qoo        o                 gM 0MQ oW-0  to- s               4D1)     
00000)             08~N  0-....   .8...                                                                                               .)0 0( 00).C.00)  .)00 (4 0 00.00 0 ) .0 0 .0
a   ~~~~~o05       (.0                  (OMOOM   ~~~~~N  .00.4 00                                                  ..   M M C 0 .      0             00                 .   . 0(.4       .- 0.  .0) .C
N 0                            Q~ o S00                                     OCC)    O r  S°O  O  OO-1      OOMMoOo         O OM ) 00   C                                  Q0Q0W0N0-0O)OMMCOO  0
.   .   .   .   .   .   .M                                                                           M                                -0-0         440 .                                                          M0)
N      44)(0O                                                tA L C MQ0 W)                                               000WM(WOO      00O0(0 @@o       l         -4 N 0 O04                    M0) OOO    OON -Q - 0.0 :a                           2
.         .   .      .   .(4I  .   
M      M                   C    OWMN N NOOOW NQ°O°ONW. 0 .4                              O MWO .  O .  O  O  O  O  O .  .  .  .
WW ^    O  NEO Qo     W         W      N       O     MO   C O)(O O)0                                                   0.00 _o NQ°              Ni     O CQ O M  CC MW00                                         )0           0 o5. o              ,o{           D^° |   
o o ~~~~~ 0                                             0   M        N     N W 0   -            (  4   O     O C O 0 D   M _  )  0  0 C  0  ) 0  0  0          0 ) Q  0  0 0  0 0  0 0 )  0 W  ) N 0O  C -   O 0 )      -    0)  ,     NOOOOOOW' Nt    '| 
S   S   s          z                                                              S                                                             Iw g                                                      X~~~~o    N 
O  &   b   °   P  O       ZNo                    b                                                              ^                                                             g  *                                                      X~~~~~~~~WI 



- 93 -                                Annex 8
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 3 - Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount
Loan Category                               ($ million)  Disbursement Rates
1. Civil Works                                          80% of total expenditures
(a) on transferred highways                    57.0
(b) on federal highways                       200.0
2. Goods                                           1.0  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost), and
80% of other local expenditures
3. Studies                                       14.0  80% of total expenditures
4. Technical Assistance & Training                12.0  100% of total expenditures
5. Unallocated                                   16.0
Total                                         300.0
Table 4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year         Disbursement                  Cumulative Disbursements
Ouarter ending           in Quarter (US$m.)       (US$m.)              % of total
FY 1998
September 30, 1997 1/     5.0                       5.0                  2
December 31, 1997         5.0                      10.0                  3
March 31, 1998            10.0                     20.0                  6
June 30, 1998             20.0                     40.0                 13
FY 1999
September 30, 1998       25.0                      65.0                22
December 31, 1998        25.0                      90.0                 30
March 31, 1999            30.0                    120.0                40
June 30, 1999             30.0                    150.0                 50
FY 2000
September 30, 1999       30.0                     180.0                60
December 31, 1999        30.0                     210.0                 70
March 31, 2000            30.0                    240.0                 80
June 30, 2000             30.0                    270.0                 90
FY 2001
September 30, 2000       20.0                     290.0                97
December 31, 2000        20.0                     300.0                100
FY2002
December 31, 2002 2/        -                     300.0                100
Sources: DNER and Bank Mission, 1997
1/ includes initial deposits less than US$30.0 million into Special Account
2/ Loan Closing Date



-94 -                                                                  Annex 8
FEDERAL HGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Chart 1. Project Implementation Time Schedule
1997      1    1998             1999             2000-            2001
ID   Task Name                               Dur    Start   Finish  0102| Q40Q34             Q2|Q30Q4011Q20Q3lQ4 01Q Q2|03|Q4 01|Q2103|04
1   LOAN PROCESSING                          702d   5123t97    211100        *
2         Board Review and Approval of Loan    15d   5/23/97   6/12/97                                  :
3         BACEN/Senate Review and Approva    30d   6/13197   7/24/97         .
4         Loan Signing                          Od    8/1/97    8/1/97
6         Legal Opinions                       44d     811197   10t1/97
6         Loan Effectiveness                    Od   10/1/97    10/97
7         Project Launch Workshop               Sd   10/1/97   10/7/97
8         Mid-Term Review                       Sd    3/2/99     3/8/99
9         Preparation & Negotiaton of Loan 2   30d  10/20/99  11/3099
10        Board Review and Approval of Loan    15d  12/10/99  12/30/99
11        Effectiveness of Loan 2               Od    2/1/00      2/1/00
12   ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS              153c     411t97  10t30197
13        Complete staffing of PMU             47d   6/12/97   8/15/97
14        Contract Technical Assistance        85d     5/5/97    8/29197
15        Finalize Standard Bidding Document    64d    5/5/97   7/31/97
16        Revise Operational Manual            85d     5/5/97   8/29197
17        Establish CPMS                      153d     411/97  10130/97
18   DECENTRALIZATION COMPONENT               197d    4/11/97  12131197            _
19        Sign Decentralization Agreements    197d     4/1/97  12/31/97
20         Sign Delegation Agreements         107d      5/5/97   9/30/97
21         Establish SMUs & cpms              173d      15/597  12/31/97
22   Group 1 State Rehab. Subprojects         587d      612/97   8131/99
23         procure studies                    152d      612/97  12/30/97       .
24        supervise studies                   152d    10/1/97   4/30/98                      i
25         procure works & superision         173d      2/V9d   9/30/98       .
26         supervise works                    305d    7/1/98   8131t99
27   Group 2 State Rehab. Subprojects         586d      112/98   3/31/00
28         procure studies                    128d      1/2/98   630/98
29         supervise studies                  153d      4/1/98  10/30/98
30         procure works & supervision        173d      8/3/98   3/31/99
31         supervise works                    325d      1/4/99   3/31100
32   CONCESSION DEVELOPMENT COMPON   521d               1/1/97  12/30/98      .i,
33        sign delegation agreeements         129d      1/1 t97   6/30t97
34         procure technical assistance        85d      5/5/97   8/29/97
35         finalize financial model            89d    7/1/`97  10/31/97
36         revise regulatory framework         89d      7/1/97  10/31/97
37         organize & train superision unds   348d    9/1197  12/30/98
38   Group I Concession Projects              521d      11V297  12/31/98
39         procure studies                    128d      1/2/97   6/30/97
40         supervise studies & tender docs     1968     4/1/97  12/30/97
41         promote concession projects      |151d    9/1197   3/30/98         .
42         tender concessions & evaluate bids  | 261d   1/1/98  1231/98       .
43   Group 2 State Rehab. Subprojects         521d      112t98  11231/99      .
44         procure studies                     128d     1/2/98   6/30/98
45         supervise studies & tender docs     153d     4/1/98  10/30/98      .
46         promote concession projects         173d     8/3/98   3/31/99 M
Source: DNER and Bank Mission, 1997



- 95 -                                                               Annex 8
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Chart 1. Project Implementation Time Schedule
1997            1998         1   999            2000            2001
ID  TaskName                                Dur  Start  Finish QI Q2Q3I4Q11Q2Q3Q4Q1 02Q3Q4Q1 Q2Q3Q4Q1 Q2Q3Q4
47        tender concessions & evaluate bids    260d   1/4/99  12/31/99
48   FEDERAL HIGHWAY COMPONENT                955d    515197  12t29100
49         Procure Maintenance Management      85d    515/97   8/29/97
50        Prepare Maintenance Management    305d    9/1197  10/30/98
51        Procure Maintenance Management    261 d    1/1/99  12/31/99
52        Procure Management Consultant        87d    612197   9/30/97
63        Prepare DNER Strategic Plan        265d   1011197   10/6/98
54        Reorganiza DNER & Train Staff       521d    1/1/99  12/29/00
55   1997-98 Federal Highway Rehab. Progra   521d      1/2197  12131198
56        Procure Subproject Studies           42d    1/2197   2/28/97
57        Supervise Subproject Studies         90d   2125/97   6/30/97
58        Procure Subproject Works & Supervi   150d    5/2/97  11/27/97
59        Supervise Subproject Works          31 7d  10/15/97  12/31/98
60   1999 Federal Highway Rehab. Program     521d    111`98  12130199
61        Carry out Network Surveys            64d    1/1/98   3/31/98
62        Prepare & Evaluate Program           45d    4/1/98    6/2/98
63        Bank Review & Approval of Program    10d    6/3/98   6/16/98       .
64         Prepare Detailed Engineenng Desig    60d   6/17/98    9/8/98
65        Bank Reviews & Approves Applicatio    Sd    9/9/98   9/15/98
66        Procure Works & Supervision          77d   9/16/98  12/31/98
67        Supervise Works                    260d    1/1/99  1230/99
68  2000 Federal Highway Rehab. Program      521d    1111/99  12129100
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
69        Carry out Network Surveys            63d     1/1/99   3130199
70        Prepare & Evaluate Program           45d    411199    6/2/99
71        Bank Review & Approval of Program    1Od    6/3/99   6/18699       .
72        Prepare Detailed Engineering Desig    60d   6/17/99    9/8/99
73        Bank Review & Approval Application    5d    9/9/99   9/15/99
74        Procure Works & Supervision          77d   9/16/99  12/31/99
75        Supervise Works                    260d      1/3/00  12/29100
76   2001 Federal Highway Rehab. Program     521d    113100  12131101
77        Carry out Network Surveys           63d    1/3100   3/29/00
78        Prepare & Evaluate SRP               45d    4/3/00    6/2/00
79        Bank Reviews & Approves SRP          1Od    6/5/00   6/16/00
80        Prepare Detailed Engineering Desig    60d   6/19/00    9/8/00
81        Bank Review & Approval Application    Sd   9/11/00   9/15/00
82        Procure Works & Supervision          77d   9/18/00    1/2/01
83        Supervise Works                    259d      1/3/01  12/31/01
Source: DNER and Bank Mission, 1997



- 96 -                                  Annex 9
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Project Supervision and Monitoring Plan
1.    The National Road Department (DNER) would, as part of the action plan to strengthen project
management and program monitoring, establish an appropriate computerized system to monitor the
implementation of the project, including producing adequate informnation to report to DNER management,
the Government, and to the Bank, in accordance with the specifications included in the OM. DNER would
forward quarterly progress reports to the Bank, not later than one month after the end of the quarter.
2.    The Bank would, as part of its project supervision responsibilities, review and comment on the
following documents: (a) DNER annual rehabilitation programs and budgets; (b) state rehabilitation
subproject applications and related documentation (delegation agreements, subproject implementation
plans); (c) specific investment applications, including the results of the engineering, economic and
environmental analyses; (d) annual procurement and execution programs; (e) procurement documentation
for all ICB and the first two NCB contracts for civil works procuured by DNER and by each participating
DER; (f) terms of reference, invitation letters, short-lists and draft contract for consultant services; and (g)
the quarterly progress reports. The Bank would approve all subprojects for financing under the loan on the
basis of subproject applications, and all investments on the basis of specific investment applications,
prepared in the agreed format included in the OM.
3.    The Bank would monitor project implementation against the PIP, including the sets of actions and
timetable, procurement, physical and financial execution targets, and development impact (Annex 8,
Table 1). A mid-term, detailed review of the implementation of the project would be carried out by the end
of 1999 or when 50% of the loan amount is disbursed, whichever is earlier. The review would cover all the
agreed actions, targets dates, and execution targets included in the PIP and the status of compliance with all
covenants of the Loan Agreement. Particular importance will be given to: (a) the federal governments'
commitment to provide adequate funds for maintenance and rehabilitation, including counterpart funds for
the project; and (b) DNER's performance under the agreed institutional development component. The Bank
will have the right to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of disbursements and termination
of the loan, if the state government and/or DNER have defaulted under the funding condition and/or
DNER's performance is not satisfactory.
4.     The Bank will supervise and monitor the implementation of the project in accordance with the Plan
presented on the next page. The estimates of Bank supervision inputs into key activities, which are shown
in the table of this annex.



- 97 -                                      Annex 9
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx. Dates     Key Activities                            Expected Skill Requirements
09/97             Project Launch Workshop                  Highway Engineer
review status of effectiveness, contracting of  Transport Economist
technical assistance and                 Procurement Officer
1997-98 works programs and budgets.
01/98             Supervision Mission: review progress on  Highway Engineer
concession, maintenance & environmental    Transport Economist
programs, procurement of 1998 works.     Environment Specialist
06/98             Supervision Mission: review progress under   Highway Engineer
decentralization, and proposed 1999 work  Transport Economist
program and budget proposal.             Organization Specialist
12/98             Supervision Mission: review execution of  Highway Engineer
1998 works and procurement of 1999 works,  Transport Economist
DNER's organization plan.                Organization Specialist
06/99             Supervision Mission: review proposed 2000    Highway Engineer
program and budget proposal, and progress   Transport Economist
under concession and contract maintenance
programs.
12/99             Mid-Term Review: review progress under   Highway Engineer
TA, decentralization, concessions,       Transport Economist
reorganization, training, engineering, and  Organization Specialist
civil works programs, compliance with
covenants and monitoring indicators, and
prepare presentation of second loan.
2000              Two Supervision Missions                 Highway Engineer
Transport Econ./Organiz. Spec.
2001              Two Supervision Missions                 Highway Engineer
Transport Econ./Organiz. Spec.
2002              Loan Closing                             Highway Engineer
(Implementation Completion Report)       Transport Economist
Total Staff Input                        150 staff-weeks



- 98 -                                                   Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 1 - Transportation Expenditures by Mode"'
PASSENGER                             US$m                CARGO                    US$m.
AIR                                        3360           AIR                          998
- Domestic                                  1231          - Domestic                   301
regular                                    1160           regular                     267
regional                                     71           regional                     14
- Intemational                             2129           - Intemational               696
AIRPORTS                                     182          RAIL                        1659
- RFFSA                     999
RAIL                                        605           - FEPASA                     374
- Interurban                                   3          - EFVM                       286
-Suburban                                   350
-Metro                                      252           ROAD                       35245
- Truck                   35245
ROAD                                      43267            urban                     13917
- Bus                                      6177            intermunicipal            11120
urban                                     3257            interstate+intl           10208
intermunicipal                            2115
interstate+intl                            804           PORTS (Portobras)            590
- Auto                                    37090
WATER                      5479
-inland                     141
-coastwise                  533
- intemational             1905
TOTAL                         47414                 TOTAL                43970
" 1994 Estimate
GDP in 1994 reached US$ 430 billion, in US$ of June 1994
Sources:  Anuario Estatistico dos Transp. - GEIPOT - 1992/93
Perfil das Empresas Estatais - SEST/SEPLAN 1985
Empresas de Transporte Rodoviario - FIBGE 1990/92
Estudo sobre o Transporte Rodoviario de Cargo - GEIPOT 1995



- 99 -                                                            Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 2 - Evolution of National and Transportation Aggregates
GROSS PRODUCT
GDP                                                                          DIESEL                 TKM             PASS.KM
YEAR                INDEX    AGRIC.   INDUSTRY                     SERVICES   TRANS    CONSUMPTION    (GEIPOT)   (GEIPOT)
1970                100          100            100                100             100           100                     100            100
1971                111          110            112                111             115           110                     109            113
1972                125           115           128                125             124           128                     115            129
1973                142           115           149                145             148           149                     133            147
1974                164          116            162                160             170           165                    159             167
1975                162           124           170                168             187           184                     174            190
1976                178          127            190                187             211           212                     189            217
1977                187          142            185                197             224           227                    208             253
1978                196          138           209                209              243           248                    225             289
1979                210          145           223                225              287           270                    247             328
1980                229           159          243                245              297           290                    208             374
1981                219           171          222                240              282           281                    209             389
1982                220          170           222                245              287           287                    287             405
1983                212          189           209                243              281           283                    268             421
1984                224          175           223                253              293           292                    296             438
1985                241          193           241                269              312           304                    327             456
1986                260          177           270                291              347           342                    355             476
1987                269          204           272                301              353           382                    379             493
1988                268          205           265                308              379           375                    403             510
1989                278          211           273                320              393           385                    411             533
1990                287          203           201                317              376           378                    423             552
1991                289          209           245                323              388           395                    448             573
1992                267          220           237                323              397           405                    427             589
1993                278          218           253                334              413
1994                294          235           270                348              430
GROWTH
RATE
8.63         4.73          9.30               9.39             11.11         11.29                  1040            14.09
70-80               1 54         2.52           0.29              281              2.80          2.68                   4.53            3.96
80-90               2.45         3.75           1.92              2.29             3.28          3 58                   0 55            3.33
90-94
LAST YEAR                                                                                                                (I10E9         (I10E9
ABSOLUTE            (1990                                                                        (I000 M3)               TKM)           PASS EM)
VALUE               US$rm)       68334          178241             273813          20548         26410                   566078         684089
519910
Sources: Anuano Estatistico dos Transportes - GEIPOT
Anuario Estatistico do CND
Anuario Estatistico do Brasil - IBGE



- 100 -                                                           Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 3 - Brazil's Highway Networks
Federal                           State
Length of Network, Irn km
Paved     Unpaved      Totl       Paved      Un;aved   Total
North    Rondonia            RO             1234        i93         1727        163        4126      4259
Acre               AC              292        862         1154        23         316       339
Amazonas           AM              196        2232        2428        442         481      923
Roraima            RR              350        900         1250        59         1618      1677
Amapa              AP              162         677        839         40         438       478
Para               PA              640        3162       3802        2459        3766      6225
Tocantins          TO              787        856         1643        771        6057      6828
North East  Maranhao            MA            2374         840        3214       1920        2879      4799
Piaui              Pi             2111         288       2399        1064        4121      5185
Ceara              CE             2040        184        2224        3317        3194      6511
Rio Gde Norte      RN             1302         185        1487       2233        1616      3849
Paraiba            PB             1216         2          1218       1491        2473      3964
Pernanbuco         PE             2480        107        2587        2631        2052      4683
Alagoas            AL              722         49         771        1494         734      2228
Sergipe            SE              319          0         319        1524        1143      2667
Bahia              BA             4335        784        5119        6069        5614     11683
South East Minas Gerais         MG             9307        668        9975       6629        9635      16264
Espirdu Santo      ES              771         4          775        2044        2353      4397
RF de Janeiro      RJ             1581         21         1602       1994        2216      4210
Sao Paulo           SP            1146          0         1146       12338       1294     13632
South    Parana              PR             3212         204        3416       8323        1811     10134
Santa Catanna      SC             2077         172       2249        2387        2454      4841
Rio Gde Sul        RS             5158        348        5506        3419        3693      7112
Center West MatoGrossoSul       MS             3043        372        3415        1606        9485     11091
Mata Grosso        MT             2728        936        3664        1601       16828    18429
Goias              GO             2647        819        3466        4465       12043    16508
Distrito Federal   DF              167         0          167         424        718       1142
Total                             52397      15165       67562       70930      103158   174088
Surface condIion of paved network
Federal                 State
Condition      km          %          km           %
Good          20604       44%        39525        50%
Fair          21119       45%        25296       32%
Poor          4999        11%        14230        18%
Total         46722       100%       79051       100%
Structural Strength and Age of the paved networks
Federal                                 State
Strength               SNC         km          %          Age        Years        km        %
Weak                   2.5-3        0          0%     Very young      0-5       18182      23%
Fair                   3-4        2600         5%     Young          5-10       19763      25%
Strong                 4-5        20800       40%     Old            10-15      22925      29%
Very strong            5-6        28600       55%    Very old        15-20       18181     23%
Total                             52000       100%                              79051      100%
Traffic Volumes on the paved networks
Federal                 State
ADT Range    km            %         South       North
0-500           0          0%          14          73
500-1000       9532       20%          24         25
1000-2000     14624       31%          27          2
2000-5000     17569       38%          20          0
>5000         5000        11%          15          0
Total         46725       100%



- 101 -                                            Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 4 - Brazil's Federal Highway Networks
Surface Type and Condition, and Traffic Volumes
Distribution by State and Surface Type of Federal Road Network
10000                                                    ...     ....
OW   Pa'"ved: 52 M km. 7%                                   U' .pavd
E 7000                                                                         Paved
* 6000  lToWUnpaved: 15165 km, 22%
z  5000 -
s  40     .                                                                 -
1000
0
3 :, : ,.,,'~1  I                 , ,, .: .. .. .  :,1 IL  -:,: -C ,-  to. .. -: ..  .) -:. . 
0            . U   '            O.  . . - ,-, ' ' L .J  3  0. .   M M  a
North               North East          South East    South    Center West
State
Surface Condition
Paved Network                Strength of Paved Network            Traic Volumes
30000~~~~~~5200
25000                         23S%
20000   -      20000          0000                 4                              315000
15000    1 S 81 -        X                         X             £           ---
2- 0000
} sowl LELt    x.                               I 1                      ,;N I~~~~-l 
20000~~~~~~~~~~~~~50
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
Coo Fair Poor           0    ,   ,    ,       +      ,5102  S
25 W ak 3. ¢FaiX 5  StrdE00- 0- 0- 00
1000100 200 500
Maintnance Condition                                                      0  0 0
Modified Structural Number
ADT Range



- 102 -                                                           Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 5 - Brazil's State Highway Networks
Surface Type and Condition, and Traffic Volumes
Length of Road Networks per State, by Surface Types
20000
E Unpaved
' Total Poved:70930 km. 41%                                                                          .... .. ........
14000
,§ 12000 i               Total Unpaved: 103158 km. 5:%
'oooo                                                                                                    . . ..    f. .'" ..  -,. '--'-.'t
.             .             ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~...... - .   .  .    . 0..   -    . .'.....
I mo                                                                                    1*F|-        .s.t .vl.| t... *. |.. .._  .... ....    
0i     l*j1U  iii                       lii                   41 1be
Surtace Condition of the                   Ag   tPvdNtokTraffc Volume on Paved
Paved Network                         Ag   fPve    ewr                                       Roads
y f.fE j iD... i.ESED.i.-itE:fE... ' E, g :,: ,-,:- ig.::: ,.E: ,- , ......... O oi: -t'......-.::.-............
10000     j     g                        5000 4000                                         .  .. °..-.lQlili20
Geed F^ir0Poor010015 20                                                                     2eho 5000
0 ~ ~ ~ 0U
God  ai  Poor I101 UIC                      0L    15W      mU 20n,5-a00
M t Nce Condition                 * since Constructon                         ADT Ra We
Surac nnne Condition ofteAeo   ae     etokTafcVlm    n  Pve



- 103 -                                             Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 6 - Brazil's Road User Charges
TAX or CHARGE         TAX BASE          RATES    REVENUES")                       BENEFICIARIES
(US$ million)      FEDERATION   STATES    MUNICIPIOS
1.    Vehicle Ownership    All motor-           2-3%(2)       2,240              -             50%           50%
Tax (IPVA)            vehicles
2.   Petroleum Import       Petroleumn             18%         810             100%             -              -
Tax (IPI)             imports
3     Value Added Tax       * Interstate/          17%         740                -            75%           25%
(ICMS)                Intermunicipal
transport
services
alcohol,           17%(3)       4,930               -            75%           25%
diesel,
gasoline
4.    Sales Tax             gasoline and            3%         385                -              -           100%
(IVVC)                alcohol
Municipal tax on      (diesel-oil
alcohol and gasoline   exempted)
sales
5.    Tolls                 vehicles on              (2)       140              60%            40%             -
specific
highways
-     Total Annual                                            9,245             895           5,430          2,920
Revenues (US$
million)
-    Annual Network                                           5,160             660           1,975         2,525
Operation,
Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Costs
Revenue/                                                 1.8               1.4            2.7           1.2
Expenditure Ratios
Sources: GEIPOT and Mission Estimates
[I]     Estimate of Revenues (1995 data)
[2]     Rates vary with type of vehicles and states.
[3]     Some states have increased this rate to 25%.



- 104 -                                                            Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Table 7. DNER Revenues and Expenditures, 1992-2001
-                 Executed                                        Projected
Components                            1992   1993   1994   1995   1996        1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      Total
Current Revenues                     283.6  370.5  486.7  7041   655.4    680.2    801.6    777.3    842.9    8647    3966.7
1 Treasury Transfers -Personnel      1937   218.3  336.7  505.2  469.6    522.5    536.1    550.1    564.4    579.0   2752.1
2.               -Maintenance         44.5   77.5   743   119.9  119.9         81.8     83.7      85.9     88.1      90.4    429.7
3.               -Other               36.7   684    63.2   69.2   46.2         88.1    173.5    132.8    1817       186.4    742.5
subtotal Treasury                    274 9   364.2  474.2  694.3  635.7    672.2    793.3    768.8    834.2    855.8   3924.3
4. Concessions                         6.3    4.2   105       8.9   16,5        8.0      8.3       8.5      8.7       8.9     42.4
5. Others                              2.4    2.1    2.0    0.9    3.2          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Subtotal                             283.6  370.5  486.7  704.1   655.4    680.2    801.6    777.3    842.9    964.7   3966.7
Capital Revenues                     568.7  708.2  580.6  666.0  1094.8   1273.6   1388.2   1149.2    963.7   1219.3   5994.0
6. Treasury Transfers- IBRD projects  52.9  122.8  140.2   30.5   12.7          5.9     18.7      18.7     18.7      50.0    112.0
7.              -IDB projects          00      0.4    81      3.0   62.3    143.0    213.9    124.3        56.4     50.0    587.6
B.               -Other projects     456.5  508 0   314.6  556.0  890.8    467.0    4587         592.9    680.4    698.0   2897.0
subtotal Treasury                    509.4  631.2  462.9  589.5  965.8    615.9    691.3    735.9    755.5    798.0   3596.6
9. Borrowings    -Project IBRD(       591    76.8  117.7   63.4   25.0         12.1     92.5    112.4      85.0    200.0    502.0
10              -Project lDB (2)       0.0    0.0    0.0      1 7   100.2    330.4    452.8    239.4    102.4    200.0   1325.0
11              - Other                0.2     02      0.0   11.4    3.8    315.2    151.6       61.5      20.8     21.3    570.4
subtotal Borrowings                   59.3   77.0  117.7   76.5  129.0    657.7    696.9    413.3    208.2    421.3   2397.4
12. Other                                                                                                                     0.0
Subtotal                             568.7  7082   580.6  666.0  1094.8   1273.6   1388.2   1149.2    963.7   1219.3   5994.0
Total Revenues                       852.3  1078.7  1067.3  1370.1  1750.2   1953.8   2189.8   1926.5   1806.6   2084.0   9960.7
Current Expenditures
13. Personnel                        194.5  219.2  336.7  505.2  469.6    522.5    5361         550.1    564.4    579.0   2752.1
14. Administration                    524    82.9   86.8  129.7  139.6        89.6      92.0     94.4      96.8     99.3    472.1
15. Debt Service                      36.7   68.4   63.2   69.2   46.2        68.1    173.5    132.8    181.7    186.4    742.5
16. Maintenance                       52.2   79.0   61.4  1387   108.8    111.6    114.5    117.5    120.6    123.7    587.9
Subtotal                             335.8  449.5  548.1  842.8  764.2    791.8    916.1    894.8    963.5    988.4   4554.6
Capital Expenditures                 568.7  708.2  580.6  666.0  1094.8   1273.6   1388.2   1149.2    963.7   1219.3   5994.0
17. Debt Anortization                 90.5  122.2   92.3   75.0   91.0        66.4      580      184.9    261.8    268.6    839.7
18. Rehabilitation Projects (IBRD/IDB)  54.9   64.0   89.2   62.5   23.6       22.2    184.9    2249      170.0    400.0   1002.0
19. Other Rehabilitation works       234.4  251.6  192.6  131.8  2233         229.1    235.0    241.1    247.4    100.0   1052.6
20. Dualization of BR-050 (SP-BH)      0.0     00      0.0    2.8  139.1    156.1    317.1    103.1         0.0       0.0    576.3
21. Dualization of BR-116 (SP-FL)      00      0.0    0.0   32.7   24.5    305.6    234.9    125.9         51.4       0.0    717.8
22. Other Investments                136.7  191.4  145.1  222.5  484.5    382.6    243.8    151.8    112.5    327.0   12177
Subtotal                             516.5  629.2  519.2  527.3  986.0   1162.0   1273.7   1031.7    843.1   1095.6   5406.1
Total Expenditures                   852.3  1078.7  1067.3  1370.1  1750.2   1953.8   2189.8   1926.5   1806.6   2084.0   9960.7
Source: ONER and Bank mission, 1997
(t1) IncIdes the Federal Hgh-ay Rehabilitation and Decentrliation Proe.t nd US$ 2.0 nilio f1rom IBRO Lean No. 136-BR.
(2) Includes the duaaizAhon ot BR-381 the dauzatio of BR-11t and a rdure IOB Loan of US$ 500.0 nolion fr the Federal Highay Rehabiitation and Denedrafization Projer.
(3t Expert ftr bo.rffamgs and debt sebtsse the ProjetLon was caluabted on the average ot the exeeded s years wAth the addtion of an eirnated inflation rate of 2.6% ofthe U.S. dfter.



- 105-                                                                  Annex 10
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Chart 1 - National Roads Department Organization
DRRETORa GERAL
OIRETORUA EXECUTrV            COSEH ADIS        I;
D IOI SA EESORA              I
AUTITORIA~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I ASESRaD 
I  PROCURADORI
G ERAL
IDIRETOR!A DE      I      I     DIRETORIA DE   ID-rOL IDEEOR  E I                                       14
MENGENHARIA        I    n       OPERACOES                DESENVOLVIMENT                     ADMIN. E FIN.                          N E
,ESfL6UD6f       ;'ENG.E               ;            PESOLJISASE    ;                       [FEANCAS   ;                    C6SNCE%iA82
,MOJETOS    ;SEGURANCA  ;                          DESEWVDwMENfD;                                                          RODOVIARIA
Ee6NSfRUCO  ';   ;'e6fR6Lf  ';         C-At AeUA6   ;                          fWVCPS  ;,iPE9S
.   ;   l   :OPERACIONAL          TECNOLOGICA   ,                         GERAIS                         FISCALZACAOI
:iiEH6IiMfEi;              ;Tk"SPORTH              APOIC    ;                                A.MAfERIALE  E
RESTAURACOES:              :RODOVIARIOS           'TECNOLOGICO   :                        ..PATRNONID
----------&   -                                                                               - - - -
IDISTRITO RODOVIARIOS
FEDERAIS
Source ONER, 1997



- 106 -                                 Annex 11
BRAZIL
FEDERAL HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.     Sistema Nacional de Viacao-SNV-Projeto de Lei "Ministerio dos Transportes, Brasilia, Out. 1995
2.     Avaliaqao Economica HDM/EBM  25/10/95: Rede Estadualizavel, Divisao de Planejamento,
DNER
3.     Avaliaqao Economica HDM/EBM  04/11/96: Rede Remanescente, Divisao de Planejamento,
DNER
4.     Programa de Habilita,ao da Malha Rodoviaria Federal, PREMARFE, Assessoria Tecnica, DNER,
1996
5.     Commissao de Viardo e Transportes - Projeto de Lei No. 1.176, de 1995, Camara dos Deputados
6.     Audiencia Puiblica Previa ao Inicio das Obras, Coordenaedo Executiva Central do Projeto de
Restaura,co e Descentralizacao de Rodovias Federais, DNER, Brasilia, 3 de abril de 1997
7.     Orgamento de 1997, Unidade: 39.201 - DNER
8.    Instru,ces de Prote,ao Ambiental daas Faixas de Dominio e Lindeiras das Rodovias Federais,
DNER, 1996
9.     Manual Rodoviario de Conserva,ao, Monitoramento e Controle Ambientais, DNER, 1996
10.    Manual para Ordenamento do Uso do Sol nas Faixas de Dominio e Lindeiras das Rodovias
Federais, DNER, 1996
11.    Corpo Normativo Ambiental para Empreendimentos Rodoviarios
12.    Proposta de Emenda a Constituicao No. 81 -B de 1995, Ca.mara dos Deputados
13.    Protocolo de Inteng6es para Transferencia de Patrim6nio e Execu,co de Obras de Restraura,cao em
Rodovias Federais, Estado do Parana, 2 de abril de 1997
14.    Protocolo de Inten,ces para Transferencia de Patrimonio e Execu,cao de Obras de Restraura9ao em
Rodovias Federals, Estado da Bahia, 2 de abril de 1997
15.    Protocolo de Inten,ces para Transferencia de Patrimonio e Execusao de Obras de Restrauracao em
Rodovias Federals, Estado de Minas Gerais, 1997
16.    Protocolo de Inten,ces para Transferencia de Patrimonio e Execu,co de Obras de Restraura,ao em
Rodovias Federals, Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, 1997
17.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Inten,ces e do Convenio de
Delega,ao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilitac,o e Descentralizagao de Rodovias Federais,
Estado do Rio de Janeiro, 30 de maio de 1996
18.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Intenc,es e do Convenmo de
Delegacao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilitacao e Descentralizacao de Rodovias Federais,
Estado de Golas 26 de malo de 1996
19.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Inteng6es e do Convenio de
Delega,ao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilita,ao e Descentralizacao de Rodovias Federais,
Estado do Rio Grande do Sul, 3 de maio de 1996
20.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Intenc6es e do Convenio de
Delegaqao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilita,co e Descentraliza,co de Rodovias Federais,
Estado da Bahia, 30 de abril de 1996



- 107 -                                Annex 11
21.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Inten,ces e do Convemno de
Delega,cao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilitagao e Descentraliza,co de Rodovias Federais,
Estado de Minas Gerais, 22 de abril de 1996
22.    Ata da Reuniao - Reuniao de Revisao dos Termos do Protocolo de Inten,ces e do Convenio de
Delega,cao no Ambito do Programa de Reabilita,ao e Descentraliza,co de Rodovias Federais,
Estado do Parana, 24 de abril de 1996
23.    Nota 15/95, Projeto de Reestruturac,o do DNER 1995, Assessoria Tecnica, 19 de dezembro de
1995
24.   Informa,ces para o BID e BIRD, DNER, Brasilia, abril de 1997
25.   Relatorio das Atividades da Diretoria de Concess6es Rodoviarias no Exercicio de 1996, DNER
26.    Edital No. 0030/97-00, Sele,co de Empresa de Consultora para Elabora,co de Programa de
Exploragao de Rodovia com Projeto BAsico, DNER, janeiro de 1997
27.    Carta Convite para Sele,ao de Empresa de Consultoria para os Servicos de Assistencia Tecnica no
Desenvolvimento de Alternativas de Financiamento para o Programa de Concessoes de Rodovias
Federais e o Treinamento de Servidores no Gerenciamento de Concessoes, DNER, Brasilia, marco
de 1997






IRED 27913
7 0'       VVENEZUELA                      o                ,2  FR.                                                                                                 B R A  Z I L
- ~~~~~(UIAM~ UA A0                                                 250      500     750      1000 KILOMErERS
COLOMBIA                    ~                       (SUINAME~GUIANA                                     _____________                                        FEDERAL HIGHWAY
REHABILITATION AND
r''}.v)' ~. ROR IMA ,             '           APA                                                                                    DECENTRALIZATION
~   0YotnoATLANTIC  OCEAN
_ r M-/ l, \61 1-1M,OrC UA                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT
N               /                             '.4,! \       \< ,,:                           BelnmH -                                                                          HT HIGHWAYS TO BE TRANSFERRED
Meo,0                                                                                                          -    HIGHWAYS TO BE CONCESSIONED
'_-2~'->1                                 -          \S       M=ncus C ; P/rntins ° S'nto  ,m       J   !\e nSiie                                               -i =  HIGHWAYS TO REMAIN FEDERAL
A   M   A   Z   0   N   A N                                                                 6P A                                       HIGHWAY R OUTE NUMBERS
a" ProcodIOnGANDE                                                          IVER
/                                     Teree.ne ~~~~~~~~~~' DO~0 NORTE
2  /   ,/                           /j_,                  ,JRANHA .    CeV    ARA  07 DO NORTE                 o  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
a'              "                                          B,tteto    Naeo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  a"                      A  STATE CAPITALS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(  SAT 
Hon,o,to                                    0O                                                      ePe P  AfBA A                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
M~~Bne   P    ,t /  ~P IA UII                                           ----STATE BOUNDARIES
AC RE  N                          VMBUJCO                                                                                                                        --- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(' I t__                                                                                                                        O AS 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-a    E Bnonol Ko -C = -   S-P=t S'gur=                                                                                            _- Ni__
1 8 0  L           I.-                                                         VPorto Noc.ogBI. --
M      T 0 \              T O    T IN S  I-,  --                         S   GIPEO                          Th.|p,  ,  3 -   4p-d -   by   th 
O  C E A  N                             Sonty RFlorion6polis                                          0  C E A  N                                 t         >         ATBAN TIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H A  M  D,i~ U,t-1Th-W-Id3-
P ~ ~ E   R   U                                                                                                                                                             Th.NAgsZubro| CA
G T0arro do   Q u5   S 0l-D-                                                                                 .        . -tly, - y h
Woodor                                  he WolPd Bo-E Gnoop, -ny jodqnten
J.q.ii                               _4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  helgl    -t,hay  tenttoy.
t  }             >{/7ORio Grond-                                                                                  *;;!-_   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nyedosmetorocepnneo
b6 Iif&i. \i7rr  60  tJURUGuAy n*Vit6^od oV EL'A
Go~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A I                                             997~
BO0LI V IA                                      -jt..'                              .ndo                                                                  / ee.O  SURINAME GIN
b.                                                                       ~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COLOMBIA  (RNHGIN
(~~I~~benho         00        ESP~~~iRITO
1                                   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D  L -d                                 TOTUOi)                                                    t 
20-  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~N/B.l.                                                                 OA,,<                                                                               (
___  ~    ~     ~      -  -           a Pn..idePmntP.   AuO                    0I DE JANEIRO                                PE20-LT           S       
PARt'..AGUA       -,                                 a-      i o e.e
CHILE j               P           .... 6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA ~
P                                                               ,PACIFIC
/                                                       ATLANTIC                            OCEAN~~~~~~~t.    ~'   K ARAO6UAY
0  C E A  N  K                2        /        -      lea ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XI.J ~ ~ ~ ~ ATL      NTIA 
.2                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sont R.,p"\,                                                                             ARGE 1~oNTlINA  'ATLANTIC
00  0 AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lEdo ~~~~~~~~~~~~URUGUAY    OCEAN
A  R G  E N  T  BornN A oGoo       t0A.e                                                                                                  
50-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
mAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:         16425   BR
Type:      SAR



