Report No. PIC1873
Project Name                        Brazil-Federal Highway ...
Decentralization Project
Region                              Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                              Highways
Project ID                          BRPA6532
Borrower                            Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency                 Departamento Nacional de Estradas
de Rodagem (DNER)
SAN Q.3, Lote A, 7004-902 Brasilia,
DF
Contact: Dra. Ademildes Dantas
Tel: 55-61-2-2901
Fax: 55-61-229-29
Date PID Prepared                   March 23, 1995
Tentative Appraisal Date            September 1995
Tentative Board Date                May 15, 1997
1.   Background.  Road transport accounts for over 60% of domestic
freight and 90% of passenger movements in Brazil.   Total road
transport expenditures are estimated at about US$60 billion equivalent
annually (159 of GDP). The main highway networks, which were built in
the 1960s and 1970s, have been used more heavily than expected and are
inadequately maintained; as a result, they have entered into a process
of rapid deterioration. Many roads in poor condition require
extensive and costly rehabilitation, and many more roads will soon
reach that point if they do not receive timely preventive maintenance
and strengthening. Traffic congestion has increased on major
highways, and secondary and feeder roads have remained in poor
condition in most states, after aost two decades of drastically
curtailed road improvement and maintenance expenditures. The much
higher cost of road transport on deteriorated or congested highways
and unimproved roads, which represents many times the infrastructure
cost, is hindering stabilization efforts and resumption of economic
growth, especially in the agricultural and industrial sectors, as well
as Brazil's export competitiveness.
2.   The Federation has, over the past fifteen years, made substantial
efforts, supported by one ongoing and two completed Bank projects, to
rehabilitate and maintain the federal highway network (68,000 km, of
which 51,000 km are paved). About 20,000 km of paved highways have
already been rehabilitated or resurfaced. The condition of the
network has recently improved: 15% of the network is now rated as
poor, compared with 30% during most of the 1980s.    Nevertheless, about
20,000 km of paved highways will have to be rehabilitated or
resurfaced over the next four years, at a total cost of about US$1.0
billion, in order to bring the existing network into satisfactory
condition. Such a program would save at least US$1.5 billion annually
in road transport costs. Also, many gravel roads (about 2,500 km)



should already be paved in order to reduce the high costs of road
maintenance and vehicle operation, and a number of high-traffic
highway sections (about 00 km) should be widened or dualized in order
to reduce congestion and accident costs. The total cost of these
investments is estimated at over US$3.0 billion.
3.   The Constitutional reform of 1988, which decentralized fiscal
revenues, including road user charges, to states and municipalities,
but kept unchanged the distribution of responsibilities among the
three administrative levels, adversely affected the ability of the
Federation to rehabilitate, maintain and improve an extensive federal
highway network. The Government, therefore, is committed to gradually
reducing the federal network to highways of national interest (from
the current 68,000 km to about 35,000 km), to transfer responsibility
for other highways to state jurisdictions, and to transfer the
operation, maintenance and upgrading of high-traffic highways to
private concessionaires, who would recover costs from tolls. The
recently enacted Concession Law (February 13, 1995) provides an
appropriate legal framework for highway concessions. Draft
legislation and an action plan to decentralize highway
responsibilities have been prepared under the ongoing Highway
Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR). State
governments, however, would accept responsibility for the transferred
highways on the condition that they also receive funds for the
necessary rehabilitation works. In addition to establishing adequate
financing mechanisms, clear and coherent goals should be assigned to
highway agencies, emphasizing the strategic planning and normative
functions of the federal agency (DNER) and the operational planning
and management functions of state agencies (DERs), the related
technical and management systems should be strengthened, and
management autonomy and accountability for results should be
increased. Initial steps in this direction have been taken by DNER and
several state DERs under ongoing Bank-financed projects. The proposed
project would build upon this experience to expand the reform of the
system.
4.   Project Objectives.   The project' s main objective would be to
assist the Government in implementing its highway decentralization
program, with a view to ensuring effective and sustainable
maintenance, and to improving the serviceability of the main highway
network, thereby reducing the cost of road transport and contributing
to economic stabilization and growth. Specific objectives would be
to:
(a)     reduce the size of the highway network under federal
jurisdiction to major interstate and international
connections, transferring other highways to state
jurisdictions;
(b)     promote private sector involvement in highway operation,
maintenance and investments through service contracts and
concessions;
(c)     strengthen DNER's strategic planning, normative and
coordination functions, gradually downsize its operations,
- 2-



and strengthen the operational planning and management
functions of state agencies (DERs) and DNER regional
districts, establishing clear goals and accountability for
results; and
(d)     implement efficient road maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading strategies and programs in order to improve
network serviceability and safety.
The project is expected to help establish an institutional and techni-
cal framework for road maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading
nationwide.
6.   Project Description.   The project, of a sector type, would
consist of three main components:
(a) a highway decentralization program, to prepare and/or
implement, as appropriate, in each state:
-    a highway decentralization agreement (HDA), which will
specify the respective responsibilities of the federation
and the state for rehabilitation, operation and maintenance,
and upgrading of the highway network in the state, together
with an implementation timetable;
-    a state subproject agreement (SSA), which will define the
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading works to be
financed under the project, responsibilities for execution
and funding, organizational arrangements, measures to
strengthen the DER maintenance capabilities through service
contracts and concessions, implementation plan and
monitoring indicators; and
-    a technical assistance and training program (TAP) to
strengthen DER maintenance capabilities, including
dissemination of effective processes, criteria,
methodologies or techniques for planning, programming and
budgeting, engineering, economic and environmental
assessments, procurement, works supervision, contract man-
agement, accounting and auditing, and monitoring;
(b) a highway concession program, including technical assistance
and training to:
-    develop and implement the federal highway concession
program, including priority concessions, strengthen DNER's
concession development and supervisory capabilities, and
help state DERs prepare and implement highway concession
programs; and
-    establish an effective regulatory framework, arbitration
entity and/or mechanisms; and possibly a Pilot Highway
Guarantee Program to offer partial risk and/or credit Bank
guarantees for specific highway concession subprojects which
otherwise would not be attractive to private investors and
- 3 -



lenders.
(c) a federal highway program, to:
-    strengthen DNER's strategic planning, normative,
supervisory, technological and human resource development
functions, gradually downsize its operations in line with
its reduced operational responsibilities, and re-design or
improve the related work processes and methodologies;
-    prepare and implement priority rehabilitation, maintenance
and upgrading subprojects on highways which will remain
under federal jurisdiction and are not part of the
concession program.
7.   The main interstate highways and international connections (about
35,000 km) would remain under federal jurisdiction. Those highways
with sufficient traffic to attract private operators would be included
in the concession program. The other highways which would remain
under federal jurisdiction would continue to be managed by DNER, which
will contract out all works, including routine maintenance, or
delegate them under contract to state DERs. The other highways,
totaling about 33,000 km, would be transferred to state jurisdictions.
In order to enable such transfers, the Federation, through DNER, would
enter into highway decentralization agreements with state governments,
and into state subproject agreements with DERs, which would specify
the priority rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading works on the
highways to be transferred. The project, which would initially be
targeted at a small number of states chosen on the basis of their
readiness to complete a decentralization agreement and of their
overall creditworthiness, would help finance state subprojects as well
as priority rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading subprojects on
highways which would remain under federal jurisdiction.
8.   Project Financing.   The proposed Bank loan (tentatively US$300
million) would finance approximately 40% of project costs (tentatively
about US$750 million). The federal and state governments would
provide the counterpart funds (about US$450 million), in a proportion
to be negotiated. Private investors and lenders, and BNDES would
finance the concession subprojects, with or without Bank guarantees.
Highway rehabilitation, periodic maintenance and upgrading works,
engineering, economic and environmental studies, works supervision,
and consultants, training and miscellaneous equipment for
institutional development would be eligible for disbursement under the
loan. Routine maintenance works will be fully funded by the federal
and state governments.   Within the 50% cost sharing net of taxes and
duties, the loan would be disbursed at the rates of 50% of total
expenditures for eligible civil works, engineering and works
supervision, and 100% for eligible studies, consultant and training
services and miscellaneous equipment. In order to enable the early
start up of urgent technical assistance and rehabilitation and
maintenance works, eligible works, goods and services could be
financed retroactively up to a maximum of 10% of the loan amount.
9.   Project Implementation.   DNER would be responsible for
- 4 -



implementing the project in accordance with the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). DNER would: (a) under the highway decentralization
program: negotiate highway decentralization agreements with state
governments; assist state DERs in preparing state subprojects in
accordance with policies, criteria and methodologies specified in a
Project Operational Manual (POM); negotiate state subproject
agreements; supervise state subproject implementation, including
review of engineering designs, economic and environmental assessments
for specific investments, and procurement and disbursements; (b) under
the highway concession program: prepare, evaluate and supervise
specific federal highway concession investments; and (c) under the
federal highway program: prepare and implement specific
rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading investments. The Federal
Government would establish and maintain an appropriate regulatory
framework, arbitration entity and/or mechanisms for federal highway
concessions. The Bank would: approve ex-ante all state subproject
agreements; review specific investments on the basis of Investment
Application Forms (IAF); and review ex-ante procurement documentation
for all investments above US$5.0 million. The state governments,
through DERs, would be responsible for implementing the respective
state subprojects in accordance with Subproject Implementation Plans
(SIP) included in the SSA and with the methodologies specified in the
POM, including engineering, procurement management and supervision of
specific investments and contracts. DNER would monitor subproject
implementation and the Bank would monitor project implementation
against well-defined indicators and targets included in the SIP and
PIP respectively. A mid-term project implementation review would
identify problem subprojects, which would be reformulated or
terminated, and loan funds would be reallocated to well-performing
states or to DNER with the Bank's ex-ante approval.
10. Project Sustainability. The project is designed to promote
sustainable maintenance of the main highway network. The
decentralization program will help achieve a better balance between
road revenue and expenditure responsibilities at federal and state
levels. The concession program will help alleviate the burden on
public sector funding and take advantage of effective private sector
management. The procedures and methodologies to be established for
planning, programming, budgeting, and management of maintenance
activities are consistent with the administrative capacity of DNER and
the DERs. The proposed formal and on-the-job training programs would
contribute to sustainability by improving the competence and
motivation of DNER and DER staff. Finally, the involvement of private
contractors in the maintenance of the networks is expected to provide
incentives to the private industry to take interest in the allocation
of appropriate resources for maintenance.
11. Lessons Learned from Past Operations. A large proportion of
completed Bank-financed highway projects is rated satisfactory. The
physical objectives of the projects have generally been attained.
However, the institutional building components often fell short of
their objectives of establishing sustainable capabilities for the
effective maintenance of the networks. The experience with the
completed and the ongoing highway projects in Brazil is consistent
with Bank-wide conclusions. Maintenance, especially where it is
- 5 -



carried out by force account, suffers from inadequate planning and
funding, centralized decision-making processes, lack of accountability
and ineffective staff incentives. However, progress has been made
where appropriate network planning-programming systems and funding
mechanisms have been established, and where maintenance, including
routine operations, has been contracted out, such as in Brazil (DNER
and a few DERs) and Chile, or transferred, on high-traffic highways,
to private concessionaires, such as in Argentina. The project
incorporates these experiences by focusing primarily on:
decentralizing expenditure and financing decisions to the more
accountable state administrations; developing efficient road programs
with adequate priority to maintenance; transferring execution to
private contractors or concessionaires; strengthening DNER strategic
planning and coordination functions and DERs' technical and management
capabilities in key functional areas; and by establishing coherent
objectives, indicators and targets, and review mechanisms to
effectively monitor the implementation of the programs.
12. Environmental Aspects. DNER prepared a manual for road-related
environmental management, which was reviewed by the Bank and found
satisfactory. DNER and participating DERs will be required to adopt
the DNER manual or an equivalent document for all relevant operations
and investments, and to establish or strengthen environmental units
responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of the manual.
The project will include technical assistance and training of staff
for this purpose. The project is proposed for environmental
category B, since its adverse environmental effects can be prevented
or adequately mitigated by relatively simple measures. The possible
adverse effects of the maintenance and rehabilitation components are
limited to those resulting from quarrying, borrow pits, or the
disposal of used pavement materials. Appropriate norms and
specifications have been developed and will be incorporated into the
contracts for engineering and civil works, and adequate supervision
and management will be carried out. For upgrading investments, which
could potentially have indirect impacts through facilitation of
investments for the development of agriculture and industry,
environmental impact assessments (EIAs) will be prepared in accordance
with agreed terms of reference. Summaries of such EIAs in an agreed
format will be reviewed by DNER and, on a sample basis, by the Bank
prior to authorizing financing of specific investments under the loan.
13. Program Objective Categories. The main thrust of the project is
to strengthen the management of the public highway network in order to
contain deterioration and improve serviceability and safety. The
project would also help promote private sector involvement in highway
operation and maintenance, investment and financing, and strengthen
environmental management capabilities in the road subsector.
14. Poverty Category. The project is not expected to confer direct
poverty-reduction benefits, although the works contracts generated
should have significant indirect benefits for poor families in the
project areas.
15. Project Benefits. The project, by helping to contain network
deterioration and improve serviceability and safety, will avoid
- 6 -



further losses of valuable capital in public highways, substantially
reduce the cost of road transport, and consequently support growth in
agriculture, industry and exports. It will also contribute to more
efficient use of public resources in the road subsector, and to reduce
future environmental costs of road construction and maintenance.
16. Project Risks. The main risks are: ineffective management of
specific investments by DNER and DERs; inadequate coordination and
monitoring of state subprojects by DNER; and insufficient counterpart
funds, in particular for maintenance. The experience acquired with
similar projects has been incorporated into the project's design in
order to minimize these risks. In particular, the project would
provide for: adequate organizational arrangements, with clearly
defined processes, responsibilities and accountability; simple
methodologies, well suited to the agencies' technical capacities;
detailed subproject implementation plans, with suitable indicators and
targets to monitor procurement, physical and financial execution of
work programs, network condition, and agency development; well-focused
technical assistance and training of DNER and DER staff in key
technical and management areas; as well as a comprehensive project
operational manual (POM). DNER's project management unit (PMU) is
being further strengthened with experienced technical staff and
consultants. A detailed project implementation plan and a
computerized project management system (CPM) will be the basis for
managing and monitoring implementation. In order to ensure
appropriate funding, DNER and the Bank will review state and federal
road expenditure and funding programs each year at the time of budget
preparation against the agreed targets. The Bank will have the right
to exercise appropriate remedies, including suspension of
disbursements or cancellation and reallocation of loan proceeds to
well-performing subprojects, if DNER or a DER were to default on the
obligations to achieve the agreed targets.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
INVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
IN THE IBRD/IDA LENDING PROGRAM
Country    : Brazil
Project ID No: BR-PA-6532
Project    : Federal Highway Decentralization
Appraisal Date : September 1995
Total Project Cost: $750m.
Board Date      : December 1995
Managing Division    : LAlIN
-7-



Sector: Transportation
Lending Instrument : Sec. Invest. and Maintenance
Status: Lending
Date (est.) for receipt of EA by Bank: August 15, 1995
EA Category in ENVIS: B (proposed)
EA Category in MIS: B
EA Category to be assigned: A / B / C (circle one); date assigned:
Major Project Components: The project will help the federal
government to: (a) decentralize highway responsibilities to state
jurisdictions; (b) promote private sector involvement in highways
through service contracts and concessions; (c) strengthen National
Roads Department's (DNER) strategic and State Road Departments' (DERs)
operational functions; and (d) implement efficient maintenance,
rehabilitation and upgrading strategies and programs.
Major Environmental Issues (identified or suspected in project):
DERs, except those with Bank-financed highway projects, have not yet
developed appropriate capabilities to analyze the environmental
impacts of their road projects, take them into account in the planning
and design of their road programs, and to develop and effectively
implement suitable prevention or mitigatory measures.
Other Environmental Issues (of lesser scope associated with project):
Proposed Actions (to mitigate issues described above): The project
will assist participating DERs in: (a) developing and/or adopting
appropriate environmental standards and guidelines for state roads;
(b) incorporating appropriate norms and specifications in contracts
for engineering and civil works; and (c) establishing or strengthening
environmental units and procedures to carry out or supervise
environmental assessments for their road projects, and to monitor
implementation of the environmental standards and guidelines.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category (presents reasons
for environmental category selected and explanation of any changes
from initial classification):    The possible adverse effects of the
maintenance and rehabilitation components are limited to those
resulting from quarrying, borrow pits, or the disposal of used
pavement materials.   Appropriate norms and specifications will be
incorporated in the contracts for engineering and civil works, and
adequate supervision and control will be carried out. For the
upgrading and paving investments, which could potentially have
indirect impacts through facilitation of agricultural or industrial
investments, environmental impact assessments (EAs), which are
required by Law, will be prepared in accordance with agreed terms of
reference, and EA summaries in an agreed format will be reviewed by
the Bank prior to authorizing financing of specific investments under
the loan.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment (presents EA start-up
date, EA first draft, and current status):    not applicable
Remarks (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local
groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given
- 8 -



permission to release EA, etc.):    Under the ongoing Highways
Management and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 3169-BR): DNER has
completed environmental guidelines for the roads subsector and
strengthened its environmental unit and procedures; and GEIPOT has
completed environmental guidelines and a training program for the
transport sector. Participating DERs with inadequate environmental
management capabilities will be required to develop an action plan to
implement appropriate environmental standards and guidelines for state
roads and to establish or strengthen environmental units responsible
for the environmental assessments of their road projects and for the
development and enforcement of the necessary prevention or mitigatory
measures, in accordance with the guidelines.
-9-



