Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4188-BR
Project Agreement
(Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS DE RODAGEM
Dated December 10, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4188-BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE 
ESTRADAS DE RODAGEM (DNER).
WHEREAS (A)  by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank 
has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in the amount of three hundred 
million dollars ($300,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that DNER agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available by the Borrower to DNER through annual 
budgetary allocations; and
WHEREAS DNER, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
Page  2
terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) DNER declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts A.1, B and C of the Project; (ii) 
carry out the activities under Part A.2 of the Project which are not 
under the responsibility of a Participating DER pursuant to a Delegation 
Agreement; and (iii) cause the Participating DERs to carry out their 
corresponding activities under Part A.2 of the Project; all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with  the Operational Manual, 
the Environmental Manual, the resettlement framework referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (when applicable), the Annual 
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Programs, and appropriate engineering, 
administrative, financial, and highway safety, environmental and 
maintenance practices, and substantially in accordance with the targets 
set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
DNER shall furnish to the Bank, not later than March 31, 
1998, evidence that it has adopted a resettlement policy framework, 
acceptable to the Bank, specifying the principles and policies that shall 
apply to the preparation of any resettlement plan and the carrying out of 
any such plan or resettlement activity that may be required under any 
State Rehabilitation Subproject or Federal Rehabilitation Subproject.
Section 2.02.  DNER shall:
(a)
maintain, until completion of the Project, the Project 
Coordination Committee with structure, functions and respon-sibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
maintain, until completion of the Project, the PMU with 
structure, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
including staff in number and with qualifications satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the purposes of carrying out: (i) overall coordination and 
supervision of the execution of the Project; and (ii) supervision of the 
procurement of goods and works and the selection of consultants under the 
Project;
(c)
employ, pursuant to the provisions of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement, a project  management consulting firm for the 
purposes of assisting the PMU,  the departments of DNER and the 
Participating DERs in the coordination and carrying out of the Project; 
and
(d)
not later than three months after the Effective Date, put 
into effect a computerized management system, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to assist in the monitoring and reporting activities related to Project 
implementation.
Section 2.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04.  For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the 
Project, DNER shall:
(a)
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
Participating DER (the Delegation Agreement), providing for the carrying 
out of State Rehabilitation Subprojects by such Participating DER, such 
agreement to include, inter alia: 
(i)
the obligation of the Participating DER: (A) to 
establish and thereafter maintain, until completion 
Page  3
of the corresponding State Rehabilitation 
Subprojects, a unit (the SMU) with adequate 
structure, functions and responsibilities for the 
purposes of overall coordination and supervision of 
the execution of such State Rehabilitation 
Subprojects; (B) to carry out such State 
Rehabilitation Subprojects in accordance with an 
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank, the 
Operational Manual, the Environmental Manual and the 
applicable targets set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter; and (C) to put into effect a 
computerized management system, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the purposes of managing the implementation 
of such State Rehabilitation Subprojects; and
(ii)
the obligation of DNER to transfer to such 
Participating DER the amounts of the Loan, when 
applicable, and the counterpart funds required for 
the carrying out of such State Rehabilitation 
Subprojects;
(b)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
the Delegation Agreements in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
DNER, the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DNER shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Delegation 
Agreements or any provision thereof; and
(c)
not later than three months after the Effective Date, enter 
into at least three Delegation Agreements.
Section 2.05.  For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the 
Project, DNER shall, by not later than March 31, 1998, employ, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement, a 
highway concession specialist firm.
Section 2.06.  (a) DNER shall tender concessions for federal 
highway sections in accordance with the indicators and targets set forth 
in the Project Monitoring Letter.
(b)
DNER, shall, before the issuance of the bidding documents 
for the first three highway concessions referred to in paragraph (a) 
above to be directly tendered by DNER, furnish to the Bank, for comments, 
the environmental specifications of such documents, and, thereafter, 
finalize such bidding documents after taking into account the comments of 
the Bank on such environmental specifications.
Section 2.07.  DNER shall furnish to the Bank, by not later than 
July 31 of each year during Project implementation, an annual highway 
rehabilitation and maintenance program (the Annual Rehabilitation and 
Maintenance Program), which shall indicate: (a) the Project components to 
be carried out in the next succeeding year, which shall be prepared in 
accordance with the relevant criteria, standards and methodologies set 
forth in the Operational Manual and the relevant physical implementation 
and funding targets set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter; and (b) 
all other highway rehabilitation and maintenance works to be carried out 
by DNER in such year, which shall be prepared in accordance with the 
technical standards (
Catálogo de Soluções Técnicas) set forth in the 
Operational Manual.
Section 2.08.  DNER shall:
(a)
by not later than June 30, 1999, furnish to the Bank, for 
comments, a plan, including a timetable, to increase the application of 
DNER’s performance-based form of highway maintenance contracts to the 
non-concessioned highway network of the Borrower, incorporating the 
lessons of experience with the pilot contracts entered into before that 
date; and
(b)
thereafter, implement such plan, after taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon.
Page  4
Section 2.09.  DNER shall:
(a)
by not later than December 31, 1998, furnish to the Bank, 
for comments, a strategic plan, including a timetable, for the carrying 
out of the reorganization referred to in Part C.1 (b) of the Project; and 
(b)
thereafter, implement such plan, after taking into account 
the Bank’s comments thereon and obtaining any required legislative or 
other approvals therefor.
Section 2.10.  DNER shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in 
respect of the Project.
Section 2.11.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, DNER shall:
(a)
whenever an amount equivalent to 75% of the Loan amount is 
disbursed, review with the Bank and the Borrower the overall progress in 
the execution and the attainment of the objectives of the Project, and 
revise, if required pursuant to the Project Monitoring Letter, the 
indicators and targets set forth in such Letter for the remaining years 
of Project execution; and
(b)
take any remedial action which shall have been agreed upon 
by the Bank DNER and the Borrower, during the review referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, as necessary to be taken for the efficient execution 
of the Project or the attainment of its objectives, such action to be 
taken in the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such 
review.
Section 2.12.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, DNER shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
DNER, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with DNER on said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a)
DNER shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in 
respect of the Project, of DNER and the Participating DERs.
(b)  DNER shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts, and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and 
of DNER hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly 
notify DNER thereof.
Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For DNER:
Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER
SAN - Q3 Lote "A"
Edifício Núcleo dos Transportes, 4° andar
70040 - 902 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and 
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement 
on behalf of DNER, may be taken or executed by the Director General of 
DNER or such other person or persons as the Director General of DNER 
shall designate in writing, and DNER shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts,  each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
Page  6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE ESTRADAS DE 
   RODAGEM
By /s/ Mauricio Hasenclever Borges
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:
(a)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the 
procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part C) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines; and works estimated to cost 
$5,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount of 
$160,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and works under this Part C.1, 
bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
Page  7
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall 
be advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for 
joint-ventures (
consórcios) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be 
approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; 
and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, 
issue any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease 
by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to: (a) all contracts for works to be awarded 
under Part B of this Section; (b) the first two contracts for works to be 
awarded by DNER and by each Participating DER under Part C.1 of this 
Section; and (c) the first two contracts for goods to be awarded under 
such Part C.1.
3.
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part D.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank 
Page  8
in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
