Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4188-BR
Loan Agreement
(Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 10, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4188-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 10, 1997 between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF 
BRAZIL (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Departamento Nacional de 
Estradas de Rodagem (hereinafter referred to as DNER) with the Borrower's 
assistance, and the Borrower will make available to DNER the proceeds of 
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Inter-American 
Development Bank (the IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent 
to $300,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the IDB; and
(D)
the Borrower intends to receive additional loans from the 
Bank and the IDB in amounts equivalent to $200,000,000 each loan, to 
further assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Bank and DNER (the Project Agreement);
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with Section 6.03 
thereof modified to read as set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 
have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank 
determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the 
Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the 
Bank determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the 
Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) 
after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn 
from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount 
of the 
Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the 
Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount 
of the Loan shall be cancelled."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Annual Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program" means any of 
the programs referred to in Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement; 
(b)
"Decentralization Agreement" means any of the agreements (
Protocolos de Intenções) referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Delegation Agreement" means any of the agreements (
Convênios de Delegação de Obras) referred to in Section 2.04 (a) of the 
Project Agreement;
(d)
"DER" means the agency of a Participating State in charge of 
highways in such State;
(e)
"Environmental Manual" means the manual issued by DNER in 
August 1996, entitled Corpo Normativo Ambiental para Empreendimentos 
Rodoviários, containing the environmental guidelines and instructions 
applicable to highway engineering, works and supervision contracts;
(f)
"Federal Rehabilitation Subproject" means any of the 
projects referred to in Part C.2 of the Project;
(g)
"Highway Concession Program" means the Borrower’s program, 
described in Relatório das Atividades da Diretoria de Concessões 
Rodoviárias do DNER no Exercício de 1996 (report of activities of DNER’s 
concession department in 1996), aimed at transferring operation, 
maintenance and other responsibilities on sections of the Borrower’s 
Page  3
highways to private operators, as such program may be amended from time 
to time;
(h)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual issued by 
DNER on July, 1997 containing procedures, guidelines, methodologies and 
standard documents applicable to the activities under the Project, as the 
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and 
DNER;
(i)
"Participating DER" means any of the DERs of the States of 
Bahia, Ceará, Goiás, Minas Gerais, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de 
Janeiro, and of any other Participating State as may be approved by the 
Bank, which has entered into a Delegation Agreement not later than 
eighteen months after the Effective Date; 
(j)
"Participating State" means any of the states of the 
Borrower where a State Rehabilitation Subproject will be carried out;
(k)
"PMU" means the Project management unit, within DNER, 
established pursuant to DNER’s Portaria No. 073, dated January 22, 1997;
(l)
"Project Coordination Committee" means the committee, within 
DNER, established pursuant to DNER’s Portaria No. 073, dated January 22, 
1997;
(m)
"Project Monitoring Letter" means the letter dated May 16, 
1997 delivered by DNER to the Bank, as amended by the letter dated 
November 11, 1997, setting forth the indicators and targets to be used in 
monitoring the progress in the implementation of the Project and the 
achievement of its objectives and in evaluating its results;
(n)
"SMU" means the unit referred to in Section 2.04 (a) (i) of 
the Project Agreement;
(o)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(p)
"State Rehabilitation Subproject" means any of the projects 
referred to in Part A.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an 
amount equal to three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Page  4
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank offered rate for six-month 
deposits in dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, 
for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated 
by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions 
thereof made 
by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower’s Minister of Transport, or the person 
or persons designated by such Minister, are designated as representatives 
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of  Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause DNER to perform in 
Page  5
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources necessary or appropriate to enable DNER to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, shall make 
the proceeds of the Loan available to DNER through annual budgetary 
allocations as required to ensure the timely execution of the Project.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, 9.09 of 
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out 
by DNER pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, 
shall: 
(a)
enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each 
Participating State (the Decentralization Agreement), providing for the 
transfer of highway responsibilities from the Borrower to such 
Participating State, including the terms and conditions of such 
transfers, and the actions to be taken by such State to strengthen its 
capacity to prepare and carry out highway network maintenance strategies 
and programs in accordance with appropriate technical and economic 
criteria; and 
(b)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under 
the Decentralization Agreements in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the 
Decentralization Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds that may be required during the period 1998-2000 for an 
emergency highway maintenance contingency program that may be required to 
be carried out in the event some or all proposed concessions under the 
Highway Concession Program do not enter into effect.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower, through its Ministry of Transport, 
shall participate in the review referred to in Section 2.11 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan 
Account was made; and
Page  6
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have 
reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support 
the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, provided, 
however, that, if any of the events referred to in paragraphs (d) and (e) 
below shall have occurred and be continuing, the suspension of the 
Borrower’s right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account may be limited 
to withdrawals in respect of Project expenditures related to the 
Participating State or Participating DER in question:
(a)
DNER shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that DNER will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
DNER or for the suspension of its operations before the completion of the 
Project, and no other arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have 
been made to ensure the timely completion of the Project and the 
attainment of its objectives.
(d)
Any Participating State or any Participating DER shall have 
failed to perform any of its respective obligations under the relevant 
Decentralization or Delegation Agreement, as the case may be. 
(e)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of 
the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that any Participating State or Participating 
DER will be able to perform any of its respective obligations under the 
relevant Decentralization or Delegation Agreement, as the case may be.
(f)
The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective 
by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Page  7
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of  the IDB Loan shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the IDB Loan 
Agreement, or
(B)
the IDB Loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Bank that adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms 
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) or (d) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (g) 
(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank 
of Brazil; and
(b)
the consulting firm referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Project Agreement has been employed by DNER.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Central 
Bank of Brazil; and
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, DNER, and is 
legally binding upon DNER in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03.  The date March 10, 1998 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, 
the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria-Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8º andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem - DNER
SAN - Q3 Lote "A"
Edifício Núcleo dos Transportes, 4° andar
70040 - 902 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.            
 64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Brasília, D.F., Brazil as of the day and year 
first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Sturzenegger
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
WITNESSES:
Min. Elizeu Padilha
Min. Antonio Kandir
SCHEDULE l
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
    Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works:
(a)
under Part A.2 of
   57,000,000 80%
the Project (State
Rehabilitation
Subprojects)
(b)
under Part C.2 of
  200,000,000 80%
the Project (Federal
Rehabilitaiton Sub-
projects)
(2)
Goods
    1,000,000 100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% 
of
local expenditures 
(ex-
factory cost) and 
80%
of local 
expenditures
for other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Consultants' services
   14,000,000 80%
under Parts A.2, B.2
and C.2 of the Project
(4)
Consultants' services
   12,000,000 100%
and training under
Parts A.2, B.2 and C.1
of the Project
(5)
Unallocated
   16,000,000
TOTAL
  300,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the amount of $30,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1997 or a date twelve 
months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later;
(b)
expenditures under any State Rehabilitation Subproject, 
unless the corresponding Decentralization Agreement has become effective 
and the Bank has approved such Subproject;
(c)
expenditures under a State Rehabilitation Subproject to be 
Page  10
carried out by a Participating DER, unless, in addition to the 
fulfillment of the conditions referred to in (b) above: (i) the 
corresponding Delegation Agreement has become effective; and (ii) the 
Participating DER has established its SMU, adopted the Operational Manual 
and the Environmental Manual, and put into effect the computerized 
management system referred to in Section 2.04 (a) (i) (C) of the Project 
Agreement; and
(d)
expenditures under a Federal Rehabilitation Subproject, 
unless the Bank has approved such Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures under 
contracts for: (a) works costing less than $5,000,000 equivalent (other 
than the first two contracts to be awarded by DNER and by each 
Participating DER pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of Section I of 
the Schedule to the Project Agreement); (b) goods (other than the first 
two contracts to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of such Part C.1); 
(c) services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; 
and (d) services of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 
equivalent; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve and maintain the 
Borrower's highway network for purposes of, inter alia, reducing highway 
transport costs, by: 
(a) rehabilitating highways under the Borrower’s 
jurisdiction; (b) decentralizing highway responsibilities to 
Participating States; (c) increasing the participation of the private 
sector in the management and financing of highways through concessions 
and maintenance management contracts; and (d) strengthening the 
capabilities of DNER and DERs to prepare, contract and monitor efficient 
highway rehabilitation and maintenance programs and highway concession 
projects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Highway Decentralization
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the staff of DNER 
and DERs for purposes of strengthening the capacity of those entities to 
carry out their respective obligations under, or referred to in, the 
Decentralization and, if applicable, Delegation Agreements.
2.
Carrying out of projects, which meet the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual, consisting of rehabilitation (including 
resurfacing, operational and safety improvement, and environmental 
rehabilitation works) of segments of highways in a Participating State, 
as specified in the Decentralization Agreements and, if applicable, in 
the Delegation Agreements, and related engineering, economic and 
environmental studies and supervision services.
Part B:
Highway Concession Development
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the staff of the 
concession department of DNER and of selected DERs to strengthen the 
capacity of such entities to prepare and promote highway concessions, to 
supervise and monitor the operation of such concessions, and to establish 
adequate regulatory framework and arbi-tration mecha-nisms applicable to 
the concessions awarded.
2.
Carrying out of concession studies, including engineering studies, 
economic and environmental assessments, and provision of project finance 
services for specific highway concession activities.
Part C:
Highway Activities at the Borrower’s Level
Page  11
1.
Provision of technical assistance and training to the staff of DNER 
for purposes of strengthening DNER’s capacity to carry out:
(a)
contracting of the maintenance of an increasing portion of 
the non-concessioned highway network through performance-based management 
contracts;
(b)
an institutional reorganization in line with DNER’s reduced 
operational responsibilities resulting from decentralization and 
concessioning of highways, and maintenance management contracts; and 
(c)
coordination and supervision activities and highway network 
surveys related to Project implementation.
2.
Carrying out of projects, which meet the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual, consisting of rehabilitation (including 
resurfacing, operational and safety improvement, and environmental 
rehabilitation works) of segments of the Borrower’s highway network which 
have remained under the Borrower’s jurisdiction and are not part of the 
Highway Concession Program, and related engineering, economic and 
environmental studies and supervision services.
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 2002
through March 15, 2012
15,000,000
_________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of 
$30,000,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to the amount of $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
amount of $125,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of 
each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Page  13
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
