                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 35010

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (SCL-41880)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                              FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                             FOR A

                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY DECENTRALIZATION PROJECT




                                           June 6, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                               (Exchange Rate Effective May 22, 2006)

                                       Currency Unit = R$ (Real)
                                                  R$ 1 = US$ 2.2
                                                US$ 1 = 0.45

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                        January 1      December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABDER       Associação Brasileira dos Departamentos Estaduais de Estradas de Rodagem
            Brazilian Association of State Road Agencies
ADT (vpd)   Average Daily Traffic (number of vehicles per day)
ANTAQ       Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários
            Water Transport Regulatory Agency
ANTT        Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres
            Land Transport Regulatory Agency
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
BNDES       Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social
            National Bank for Economic and Social Development
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DER         Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem (State Road Department)
DER-MG      Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem do Estado de Minas Gerais
            Minas Gerais State Road Department
DNER        Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem (Ex-National Road Department)
DNIT        Departamento Nacional de Infra-estrutura de Transportes
            National Transport Infrastructure Department
EA          Environmental Assessment
EM          Environmental Manual
FPE         Fundo de Participação dos Estados (State Participation Fund)
GEIPOT      Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento dos Transportes (National Transport Planning Agency)
GOB         Government of Brazil
HDM-III     Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (version III)
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IERR        Internal Economic Rate of Return
IRI         International Roughness Index
MT          Ministério dos Transportes (Ministry of Transport)
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NPV         Net Present Value
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPI         Pilot Investment Project
PPP         Public-Private Partnership
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SNV         Sistema Nacional de Viação (National Transport System)
TOR         Terms of Reference
VOC         Vehicle Operating Cost


                                     Vice President:        Pamela Cox
                                   Country Director         John Briscoe
                                    Sector Manager          Jose Luis Irigoyen
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                Aymeric-Albin Meyer

                                           BRAZIL
                     FEDERAL HIGHWAY DECENTRALIZATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30

Project ID: P006532                                                  Project Name: BR FED HWY DECENTR
Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer                                     TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 6, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: BR FED HWY DECENTR                                       L/C/TF Number: SCL-41880
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (92%); Sub-national government administration (8%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Regional integration (S); Other financial and private sector development
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/24/1995                                     Effective:                           02/25/1998
     Appraisal: 04/08/1996                                         MTR:                             10/28/2001
      Approval: 06/12/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/17/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          FEDERAL GOVERNMENT/DNER
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               John Briscoe                                   Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                 Jose Luis Irigoyen                             Asif Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:             Aymeric-Albin Meyer                            Jacques L. Cellier
ICR Primary Author:             Aymeric-Albin Meyer; Eric
                                Lancelot


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's original objective consisted in improving and maintaining the serviceability of the main
highway network on a sustainable basis with a view to reducing road transport costs, through the following
actions:

(a) rehabilitation of federal highways;
(b) decentralization of highway responsibilities to state governments;
(c) increasing participation of the private sector in the management and financing of highways through
concessions and maintenance management contracts; and
(d) strengthening the capacity of the federal road department (DNER, Departamento Nacional de Estradas
de Rodagem) and state road departments (DERs - Departamento Estadual de Estradas de Rodagem) to
prepare, contract and monitor efficient network rehabilitation and maintenance programs and highway
concession projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's original objective was not substantially altered during project execution. However, in 2001
and 2002, the federal Government undertook, with Bank inputs, a re-organization of the federal transport
administration aiming at improving its efficiency, by (a) substituting the DNER for a federal transport
department (DNIT - Departamento Nacional de Infra-estrutura Terrestre), (b) creating two regulatory
agencies, one in charge of the land transport sector (ANTT - Agência Nacional de Transporte Terrestre)
and the other one in charge of the water transport sector (ANTAQ - Agência Nacional de Transporte
Aquaviários); (c) closing the Transport Planning Agency (GEIPOT - Empresa Nacional de Planejamento
dos Transportes); and (d) reorganizing the Ministry of Transport, to consolidate planning and management
capacity in the sector. Following the formalization of the re-organization, the Borrower asked the Bank to
provide support to the set-up of the regulatory agencies and the Ministry of Transport's reorganization.

As such, following project restructuring in 2002, action (d) above was modified as follows:

(d) strengthen capabilities of the transport sector entities resulting from the restructuring of the Borrower's
transport sector administration, to ensure an adequate and efficient management and regulation of transport
infrastructure and services at the federal level.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three main components:

l a highway decentralization component, including:
             (i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of the DNER and state
             road administrations to implement: (1) 16 decentralization agreements between the Ministry
             of Transport/DNER and each participating state, which would transfer 10,000 km. of federal
             highways to the states, specifying the highway responsibilities to be transferred to the states,
             the terms and conditions for such transfers, and the agreed actions to strengthen the state road
             administrations capabilities to prepare and implement efficient road network maintenance
             strategies and programs; and (2) 7 delegation agreements between DNER and each
             participating state road administration, which would specify the respective responsibilities for
             executing the rehabilitation and maintenance works, and the related work programs and
             performance indicators and targets; and
             (ii) state rehabilitation subprojects consisting of (a) 2,100 km. of rehabilitation works on the



                                                      - 2 -

             highways to be transferred to each state, and (b) the related engineering, economic and
             environmental studies and supervision services;

l a highway concession development component, including:
             (i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of the newly-created
             DNER Concession Department and several state road administration concession units to
             prepare, promote, supervise and monitor highway concessions, and to establish effective
             regulatory framework and arbitration mechanisms; and
             (ii) concessions studies consisting of engineering studies, economic and environmental
             assessments, and project financed services for specific highway concession projects covering
             an extension of about 7,000 km.;

l a federal highway component, including:
             (i) technical assistance and training services to strengthen the capacity of the DNER to: (1)
             contract the maintenance of an increasing portion of the non-conceded network through
             performance-based management contracts; (2) prepare a strategic plan, including staffing and
             training programs, and implement a reorganization in line with its reduced operational
             responsibilities resulting from decentralization, concessions and maintenance management
             contracts, and (3) coordinate and monitor the implementation of the entire project; and
             (ii) federal rehabilitation subprojects, consisting of: (1) 6,200 km. of rehabilitation works,
             including resurfacing, operational and safety improvement, and environmental rehabilitation
             works on highway which would remain under federal jurisdiction and are not part of the
             concession program; and (2) the related engineering, economic and environmental studies and
             supervision services.

The project was structured to finance, over the 1997-2000 period, the implementation of the federal road
maintenance and rehabilitation program, with maintenance (at a cost of US$300 million) to be financed by
the Borrower, and rehabilitation (at a cost of US$750 million) to be financed with a US$300 million loan
from each the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB), and US$150 million in counterpart
funding. The financing to be provided by the Bank and the IADB was structured on a parallel rather than a
cofinancing basis, with (a) different project design; and (b) no formal coordination mechanism to be
followed during project implementation.

The project appraisal document also foresaw, upon satisfactory project completion, a possible follow-up
project with additional support from both the Bank and the IADB to the implementation of the federal road
maintenance and rehabilitation program over the 2001-2002 period (at a cost of US$487 million), with the
objective that, by end-2002, the federal paved road network would be again in relatively good condition,
with a total of: (a) under the highway decentralization component, about 4,000 km. of road sections to be
rehabilitated; and (b) under the federal highway component, about 10,000 km. of road sections to be
rehabilitated.




                                                     - 3 -

As the project nears completion1, this report focuses on evaluating the Bank's and Borrower's performance
in preparing and implementing the Bank-financed part of the project. The Bank-financed part was designed
to provide support to the three project components, as follows: (a) 23% of the loan amount under the
highway decentralization component, with the physical objective of rehabilitating about 1,000 km. of paved
road sections; (b) 1% of the loan amount under the highway concession development component; and (c)
76% under the federal highway component, with the physical objective of rehabilitating about 3,100 km. of
paved road sections.

3.4 Revised Components:
The scope of the second and third components was adapted in order to take into account the modification
presented in section 3.2 above, as follows: support to the strengthening of the ANTT was included under
the second component (for 2% of the loan amount), and support to the reorganization of the Ministry under
the third component (for 3% of the loan amount). In addition, a new component was created to provide
support to the set-up of the ANTAQ (for 1% of the loan amount).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Note: this project predates the introduction of the QAG quality at entry process.

The project's quality at entry is considered satisfactory.

(a) the project's objective was in line with the CAS and the long term development policy framework at the
federal level2, which identified the improvement of the federal paved road network as a key element to foster
economic development through the reduction of road transport costs and improvements to the population's
access to markets and services. Indeed, the federal paved road network is the backbone of Brazil's
transport system, supporting over 60% of freight and over 90% of passenger movements across the
country;

(b) the project was adequately structured to support the implementation of the road management policy of
the federal Government, aiming at improving the network's condition through a combination of
decentralization of federal roads of local interest to the states, the concession to the private sector of
operation and maintenance of federal roads with sufficiently high level of traffics, and the strengthening of
the federal capacity to manage the remaining network, through a result-based approach; and

(c) the project's physical component adequately focused on rehabilitation and preservation of the trunk road
network given: (i) Brazil's dependence on such network; (ii) rehabilitation investments yield high rates of
return (a key consideration given especially Brazil's fragile fiscal situation); and (iii) a substantial part of
the road infrastructure was reaching its life expectancy limits (most road sections were built in the 1960s
and 1970s, and have been subjected to rapidly increasing traffic flows).

In addition, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is well structured, and presents a comprehensive technical,
economic and financial evaluation of the project, as well as a thorough analysis of project risks, adequately
taking into account lessons learned from previous Bank operations in the sector in Brazil as well as Bank
experience in the sector.
___________________________________
1the first Bank loan closed on December 15, 2005, and the first IADB loan is scheduled to close on March 2007
2as detailed in Brazil's 1996-1999 development program (Brasil em Ação, Planning Ministry), the 1997 study on
national corridors for integration and development (Estudo dos Eixos Nacionais de Integração e Desenvolvimento,
BNDES), and the annually rolling three-years federal expenditures plan (Plano Plurianual, Planning Ministry).




                                                       - 4 -

However, the following elements could have benefited from a more detailed analysis, including:

        (a) the necessary conditions for the Government to undertake the decentralization program: the
             SAR could have detailed the strategy to be followed by the Government, identifying clearly (i)
             the incentives for the states to participate in the process; and (ii) the risk that such incentives
             might not be sufficient, especially given Brazil's traditionally central management in the sector;

        (b) the two-phases operation design: while no operational guidelines were available on the topic
             at the time, project design would have been clearer (and project implementation/evaluation
             easier) if the project-end targets and the division of responsibility between the Bank and the
             IADB had been more clearly presented; and

        (c) outcome indicators linked to the condition of the remaining and decentralized paved road
             networks: the achievement of these indicators assumed that over 50% of the federal paved
             network would be decentralized and conceded over a 4-years period, a major assumption
             taking into account the inherent difficulties of decentralization and concession processes. As
             such, the end-of-project values of these indicators have been evaluated as overly optimistic,
             especially as it is clear from the SAR that all necessary conditions to allow such processes to
             be fully implemented in a short period of time, were not met at the time the project was
             presented to the Board.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the project objective of improving and maintaining the serviceability of the main
highway network on a sustainable basis in Brazil is rated overall as moderately satisfactory. Despite
set-backs in achieving the targeted amount of highway rehabilitation and a more rapid decentralization of
responsibilities to state governments, the institutional development impact of the project has been
significant and the sustainability of sector improvements very likely. The reasons for only modest
achievements on the physical investment side are mainly linked to the delay in Congressional approval of a
key policy measure related to federal highway decentralization on which the loan was premised, as well as
continued financing shortfalls due to the overall fiscal situation facing the country and lack of investment in
the infrastructure sectors.      The most significant achievements include the institutionalization of
results-based contracts for rehabilitation and maintenance in the road sector and a much strengthened
planning capacity at both the federal level and in 13 state agencies. In fact, government decided in 2005 to
expand the use of results-based contracts to the entire network, and has included some transport projects in
its IMF-endorsed Pilot Investment Project (PPI) which now undergo more rigorous economic analysis. In
addition, the project made a major contribution to the successful institutional restructuring of the federal
road administration, which has paved the way for putting in place the new Public Private Partnership (PPP)
law for infrastructure investments.

a.1. Improving the condition of the paved network

Road sections on the federal paved road network are managed in 3 ways: (a) by the private sector, through
concessions - referred to as the "conceded" network; (b) by the states, through decentralization of federal
roads of local interest to the states - referred to as the "decentralized" network; and (c) by the federal
Government, through direct administration. One of the objectives of the project was to support the



                                                      - 5 -

implementation of the federal Government's concession and decentralization policies, in order to reduce the
size of the network administered directly at the federal level, the so-called "remaining" paved network,
thereby reducing the financial obligations of the federal Government on this network.

The project anticipated that the size of the remaining paved network would gradually decrease from 50,000
km in 1998 to 36,500 km in 2000, as 5,000 km were supposed to be conceded and 8,500 km decentralized
within this three year period. Over that period, it was expected that annual financing of about US$250
million for rehabilitation and US$75 million for maintenance (or about US$1 billion over 3 years versus the
project estimation of only $750 million) would be sufficient to significantly improve the condition of the
remaining network, and thus that expenditures under the project would be sufficient to cover all needs for
maintenance and rehabilitation of this portion of the paved network.

However, by the originally planned end of project (December, 2000), the actual size of the remaining
network actually grew slightly to about 51,000 km. This was due to mainly to the delay in implementation
of the decentralization process which had only been fully completed on about 700 km of road sections and a
slight reduction of 300 km in the conceded network. In addition, about 6,000 km of new paved road
sections had been built, and as such, the actual remaining network was about 40% longer than the size
originally foreseen by project-end. The implication of this was that the maintenance and rehabilitation
needs were in fact 25% larger than originally foreseen (at an estimated US$1.3 billion), and thus the
originally expected spending would not suffice to achieve the original road condition target. Despite these
challenges, the project did quite well in advancing the maintenance needs of the remaining network portion
of federal roads, and by the end of 2000 US$666 million of the planned $750 million had been spent, and
the percentages of road sections in good and bad condition had evolved from, respectively, 34% to 41% (as
opposed to a target of 45%) and 12% to 7.5% (instead of 6%). During this period government covered
66% of costs with their own resources versus 22% and 11% drawn down from, respectively, the Bank and
the IADB loans.

Unfortunately, by the end of the extended project closing date (end-2005), the fiscal situation of the
Government took a downturn for the worse, seriously hampering investment in the infrastructure sectors in
general, and road maintenance in specific. In addition, the decentralization program continued to suffer
delays, as explained below. Therefore, the remaining network size was still at 51,000 km and this required
a continuous drain on an increasing amount of scarce federal financial resources just to maintain and
rehabilitate the roads.. On average, over the 1998-2005 period, the Government spent about US$1.9
billion for maintenance and rehabilitation of the remaining network, of which 16% and 9% financed
through, respectively, the Bank and the IADB loans. This lack of investment had a detrimental impact on
the condition of the remaining network with the percentages of road sections in good and bad condition
varying from, respectively, 34% to 27 % and 12% to 13%.

Basically, given prevailing fiscal constraints and weak execution capacity at the Government level, it took
the Government twice as long (8 years vs. 4 years) to spend the amount of resources initially foreseen
under the project and the potential follow-up project (US$1.6 billion planned vs. US$1.9 billion actual), to
rehabilitate and maintain a remaining network, the extension of which ended up to be twice as large
(51,000 km) as the extension initially planned by the end of the implementation of the follow-up project
(27,000 km). These two facts, associated with an acceleration of the deterioration process of the road
sections after 2000 (given their age, condition and traffic levels), are the main contributors to the
continuation of the deterioration of the overall network during the 1998-2005 period.

In summary, during project implementation, the network condition indicators stipulated in the SAR
gradually revealed not to be achievable, because of circumstances external to the project, including the


                                                     - 6 -

overall fiscal constraints of the Government, the constraints on budget preparation, approval and execution
(for more details, see the draft Bank document "Brazil Public Expenditures Review", Matsuda & Blanco,
2006), the preference of the Government to use own rather than borrowed resources and the relatively weak
execution capacity in the sector.       During implementation, the Bank team took into account such
circumstances and adjusted the outcome indicators accordingly. Despite the adverse conditions, the project
allowed to: (a) improve significantly the condition of about 7,000 km of road sections (or 15% of the
remaining network) above the values of the road condition indicators stipulated in the SAR, and (b)
contributed to ensure minimum budget allocation to the Federal Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program during the worse of the fiscal adjustment (the 2001-2003 period), and thus to a slower
deterioration of the road network.


                                         Investm e n t s & r o a d c o n d itions



                                                                                 % o f r o a d s i n k m
                 400                                                                       45

                 350                                                                       40            T o t a l In v e s t in
                                                                                                         ro a d s
                 300                                                                       35
                                                                                                         P r o j e c t t o t a l
                                                                                           30            In v e s m e n t s
                 250
                                                                                                         IRI>5
      million                                                                              25
                 200
             US$                                                                           20            IRI<3
                 150
                                                                                           15
                 100                                                                       10

                  50                                                                       5

                   0                                                                       0
                      1997 1998 1999 2000   2001   2002      2003      2004      2005




a.2 Improving the condition of the (to be) decentralized paved network
An important sub-objective of the project was to help the federal government decentralize about 10,000
kms of federal paved roads to selected states. In 1997, when project preparation was completed, the federal
Government had designed a process aiming at the decentralization of these federal paved road sections of
local interest to the states. However, it took until 2003 for progress to be made in this area (see Section 4.1
b and 4.2. for details), when 15 decentralization agreements were signed between the federal and state
Governments. During this time, little attention has been given to maintenance of these road sections,
leading to even greater deterioration.

By the original end of the project (end of 2000), it was foreseen that: (a) the decentralized network would
have an extension of 8,500 km, (b) about 2,000 km of such network would have been rehabilitated, and (c)
the percentages of road sections in good and bad condition would have varied from, respectively, 36% to
41% and 20% to 10%. By end of 2000, no decentralization agreement had been finalized between state and
federal Governments and as such, the decentralized network did not exist. In addition, virtually no
rehabilitation had been undertaken by the federal road administration, but some localized emergency works
had been undertaken by the states to maintain trafficability; and the road sections included in the
decentralization program in good condition had decreased from 36% to 27%, while the percentage of road
sections in bad condition remained at 20%.




                                                         - 7 -

Some nominal progress was made during the second period of project implementation: 500 km of road
sections to be decentralized had been rehabilitated, and the decentralized network has an extension of about
700 km, since two state Governments formally accepted to receive the decentralized federal road sections
without additional conditions. The percentages of road sections included in the decentralization program in
good and bad condition had varied from, respectively, 36% to 22% and 20% to 22%.

In summary, the major delays encountered in the implementation of the federal Government's road
decentralization program have had a direct impact on the state and federal Governments' capacity to invest
in the rehabilitation of the federal paved network to be decentralized and led to a deterioration in the
condition of the road sections included in the decentralization program. Because the delay in the
decentralization program was political in nature and outside of the control of the project, the planned
targets determined at project outset for the improvement of the condition of paved network that was to be
decentralized could not materialize. However, the targets were adjusted during the life of project execution
so that the final indicators approximate these adjusted targets.

a3. Reducing average road transport costs
Simulations show that costs decreased as originally foreseen (from US$cent 42 to about US$cent
39.5/veh-km) on the whole of the network despite the overall worsening of road conditions. The strong
devaluation of the Brazilian Real relative to the U.S. dollar over the project implementation period helped
favor this result.

b. Decentralizing federal road of local interest to the states
At the time the project was presented to the Board, it was assumed that the two main necessary conditions
to allow the decentralization outcome to be achieved would soon materialize. The first condition required
specific decentralization agreements to be signed between the federal and state Governments and that these
would be supported by a revised National Highway System (SNV) law to be approved by the National
Congress. In addition, the federal Government was expected to be able to make available, in a timely
manner, human and financial resources to improve the condition of the road sections to be decentralized.
Unfortunately, the decentralization process did not materialize as planned, and difficulties encountered were
exacerbated by the following issues: (a) a recurrent lack of trust underpinning the relations between the
federal and state governments; (b) a sentiment, within certain political circles at the federal level, that
decentralization is synonymous with loss of power; and (c) an increasingly difficult fiscal situation, with
low payment limits available for all public investment programs, and the resulting need to prioritize
expenditures on the core road network. However, by the end of 2005, discussions on this topic have
resumed in a constructive fashion at the level of the National Congress, and there is continued expectation
that the federal highway decentralization process could be finalized in the next few years.

c. Increasing private sector management and financing
Substantial achievements were made on this outcome, including: (i) ANTT's creation in 2002, the
subsequent constitution of a core regulatory body, and the establishment of regulatory systems; (ii) the
approval in 2004 of a public-private partnerships (PPPs) law4; and the subsequent creation of an
inter-ministerial group in charge of PPPs; (iii) the tendering of concessions on about 4,700 km of the
federal paved network, concessions which have been fully operational since 2000; and (iv) the successful
introduction and latter expansion of result-based rehabilitation and/or maintenance contracts to manage
8,400 km of the paved network.
_______________________________________________
4as a complement to the 1995 concession law, allowing, inter alia, direct public participation in the financing of
concessions, extended limit for concessions' period, more flexible criteria for selection of concessionaires, and
clarifying financial guarantees to concessionaires.



                                                     - 8 -

Of the 10,000 km of road sections government had originally planned to tender concessions in three phases,
the first phase has been tendered and awarded and the amount of private financing made available is
estimated at US$40 million on average per year. The tendering of the remaining two phases have been
delayed for the following reasons: (a) increasing scrutiny of the process by central government entities (and
especially of procedures to be followed and documents to be used during the bidding process), as a result of
a general decision taken by the federal Government to increase oversight over all government actions; (b)
mixed signals sent, in 2003 and 2004, by the Federal Government with respect to the appropriateness of
increasing private sector management in infrastructure; and (c) weakness in execution capacity,
compounded by the organizational changes triggered by the 2002 reorganization of the federal transport
administration. However, these issues are being resolved and private investment is expected to increase
now in the sector, as evidenced by the fact that all preparatory activities for the bidding of the second phase
of the federal road concession program have been completed, and that the first federal public-private
partnership is being structured, to improve, maintain and operate parts of the BR-116.

As an additional way to increase private sector participation in the sector, a result-based approach (see
description in section 4.2 (c)) was concomitantly applied both to maintenance as well as rehabilitation and
maintenance contracts (on extensions respectively of about 3,200 km and 5,100 km)5, which represents
about 19% of the remaining network. The SAR had initially foreseen to apply a result-based approach to
only maintenance activities on 75% of the network, just excluding concessions (and not those parts to be
decentralized to states). However, it is not clear how the 75% initial target was established, and what
incentives the states would have had to accept such approach on the decentralized parts of the federal
network.

d. Strengthening of highway agencies' maintenance capability
The strengthening of planning capacity both at the federal and state-level road agencies, and the
introduction, on a wide-scale on the federal network, of result-based contracts for rehabilitation and/or
maintenance are one of the most important outcomes of this project. In fact, this has resulted in a
substantially increased maintenance capacity, as follows: (a) 13 state road agencies have been equipped
with pavement management systems and have received the related training; (b) average rehabilitation costs
fell well below the original target at around US$40,000/km while average rehabilitation costs on traditional
contracts stayed at around US$90,000/km, and more importantly, (c) the introduction of result-based
contracts has triggered a series of durable improvements in the design, contracting and supervision
procedures followed by the federal road administration. In 2005, government made an important decision
to expand the use of result-based contract for maintenance and rehabilitation to the whole network.

The project played a key role in supporting a major transformation in the institutional structure of the road
maintenance sector. After a slow initial start to the institutional strengthening activities during the first few
years of the project, in 2002, DNER was closed and DNIT created. The project helped to overcome the
initial lack of leadership in DNIT's structuring process; and draw attention to an insufficient number of
professional staff. This issue is being addressed as, for the first time since 1995, a public hiring of staff for
the federal road administration has been authorized. In addition, outdated and isolated management and
information systems have been improved. DNIT capacity has improved substantially, especially during the
past two years (see section 5.3).
___________________________________
 as, in 2001, it clearly appeared that, within the framework of project implementation, pursuing a "traditional"
5


approach to road rehabilitation would not allow the project's output targets to be achieved (see section 4.2 below).




                                                       - 9 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
a. Highway decentralization component
For purposes of Annex 5 to this ICR, the achievements of the Sector Policies and Institutional Development
objective of this component are rated as modest.

At the time of project approval, the key piece of legislation to ensure the implementation of the federal
highway decentralization program was still in analysis at the national Congress. The draft law aimed at
approving a new national highway system (SNV)6, including the decentralization of 17,500 km of federal
road sections of local interest to the state governments. Anticipating the law's approval, the project
foresaw a transition period during which decentralization could be handled through: (a) agreements in
principle from the states to the decentralization process; and (b) road administration delegation agreements
to be signed, on an as needed basis, between the federal and state administrations.                   The delegation
agreements would allow for the undertaking by the federal or state road administrations of design and
rehabilitation works on about 4,000 km of road sections to be decentralized, with financing from the federal
Government, through the project.

Unfortunately, by 2002, and despite efforts from the Government with support from the Bank: (a) the draft
SNV law had still not been approved, (b) only 5 agreements in principle to the decentralization process had
been signed, (c) 3 delegation agreements had been signed, and (d) designs for road rehabilitation had been
undertaken (through the project) in the framework of only 2 delegation agreements. Based on this lack of
progress, the federal Government changed its strategy and offered, to fiscally troubled states, to pay
up-front for the rehabilitation of road sections to be decentralized, provided the states would commit
themselves to later carry on the due process to formally accept such roads7. As a result, in 2003,
decentralization agreements were signed between the federal and state Governments which would transfer
up to 9,000 km. of paved federal road sections to the states. However, as mentioned above, the states, with
the exception of two, have not yet fully implemented such agreements.

As a result, by 2005, only about 500 km. of road sections to be decentralized were rehabilitated under the
project8 (vs. about 2,000 km. originally expected to be undertaken by both the Bank and the IADB within
the first Phase, and about 4,000 km within the second Phase).

b. Highway concession development component
For purposes of Annex 5 to this ICR, the achievement of the Sector Policies and Institutional Development
objectives of this component is rated as high.




____________________________
 "Plano Nacional de Viação", PL 1.176/95
6


7including the definition of the specific assets to be transferred, the passing of a state law accepting the transfer of
such assets, and the actual rehabilitation works to be undertaken, see Medida Provisória 82, dated December 7,
2002
8300 km under the Bank loan and 200 km under the IADB loan



                                                         - 10 -

This component provided significant support to the ANTT's structuring through the financing of consulting
services and equipment to: (a) define its organizational and staffing structures, and its long-term strategy,
(b) help structure its information and management systems; (c) define several key norms and regulations in
the sector, including for provision of road freight transport services and of inter-state passenger road
transport services, mutual rail traffic, captive rail shippers, and transport of hazardous materials; and (d)
undertake training of its staff. In addition, feasibility studies for possible road concessions were prepared
on an extension of about 15,000 km (vs. 9,000 km originally planned under the project), and support (in the
form of technical assistance and training) was provided to DNER in the tendering of the first phase of the
federal road concession program.

c. Federal highway component
For purposes of Annex 5 to this ICR, the achievement of the Sector Policies and Institutional Development
objectives of this component is rated as high, while the achievement of the Physical objective of this
component is rated as modest.

The project originally anticipated over the 1998-2000 period, under each the Bank and the IADB loans, the
rehabilitation of about 3,000 km of the remaining network, and the introduction, on a pilot basis, of
result-based road maintenance and/or rehabilitation contracts. In effect, over the 1998-2005 period, about
4,000 km and 3,000 km of rehabilitation works were undertaken under respectively the Bank and the IADB
loans.

The main reasons for such delays, under the Bank-financed part of the project, include: (a) an 8 month
delay between Board approval and effectiveness (effectiveness was declared in February 1998), as project
approval within Brazil was held up by the 1997 national elections' process; (b) delays in procuring
engineering designs and civil works contracts and in paying contractors' bills, in a context in which the
Borrower was facing fierce fiscal constraints, and the execution capacity of the federal road administration
was decreasing; and (c) a situation in which payments under externally-financed contracts were not
prioritized relative to payments under internally-financed contracts, despite the higher cost to the
Government of external financing.

It thus became clear in 2000 that the traditional model used under the project to contract road maintenance
and/or rehabilitation was not adequate. As such, it was decided, under the Bank-financed part of the first
Phase, to undertake road rehabilitation and maintenance using result-based contracts on a network-wide
basis, instead of a pilot basis. The expected benefits (many of which did eventually materialize) of this
shift included:

         i. result-based contracts generally cover an entire route or a small network of road sections (usually
about 300 km) instead of a small road section. These contracts first ensure consistency and therefore
predictability of road conditions over an entire route or network. They also allow contractors to continue
working even when a technical or fiscal issue delays works on a specific road section.                 On the
administration's side, the main advantages are to substantially reduce the number of contracts to be
procured, managed and supervised, and to transfer detailed design and quality control responsibilities to
contractors;

         ii. result-based contracts have an implementation period of up to five years, compared to about 1.5
years for traditional contracts, which (a) ensures the accountability of the contractor with respect to the
quality of the rehabilitation works (as the contractor is responsible for maintaining satisfactory road
condition during a certain period following the conclusion of the rehabilitation works), and (b) provides for


                                                     - 11 -

added flexibility to react to changing budgetary situations;

         iii. only basic designs are required, leaving the responsibility to the contractor of finalizing the
designs just before works are about to be executed on a certain road section. This reduces the time needed
to prepare the contract designs, and reduces the risk of contract renegotiations during contract execution;

         iv. payments of result-based contracts are not, by definition, "input-based", which decreases
significantly (a) the risk for disputes over the actual quantities used, and (b) the burden on the federal road
administration, in terms of supervision. Supervision is undertaken on the basis of road condition indicators
to be complied with at regular time intervals, combined with technical audits to verify the quality of the
works undertaken. Financial penalties are applied in case the road condition indicators are not met, and
additional works are to be undertaken at no cost to the employer in case the quality of the works is found to
be non-satisfactory; and

         v. a successful introduction of the result-based approach would allow to better differentiate the
Bank's interventions within the overall federal road maintenance and rehabilitation program, thus
increasing the incentives to the Borrower to ensure a successful project execution.


The introduction of such an innovative concept in Brazil (the concept was introduced a bit later at the
federal level than at the level of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, which with Bank support9, introduced a
result-based approach to road maintenance and rehabilitation for the first time in Brazil) required special
efforts from both the Borrower and the Bank, as: (a) specific bidding and contract documents had to be
structured; (b) new technical norms elaborated; and (c) the concept needed to be understood by the
engineering and construction industry. By early 2002, 5 result-based contracts were signed, covering an
extension of over 3,000 km.          Unfortunately, two elements initially delayed the contracts' execution,
including (a) the election at the end of 2001 of a new Government, and the resulting application of an even
stricter adjustment policy to respond more efficiently to the fiscal situation; and (b) the necessary
adjustments in the dialogue between the federal road administration and the contractors, as both sides
needed to fully understand the "result-based" concept.

In light of the continuing slow implementation of especially this project component, the Bank and the
Government started discussing, in 2002, possible measures to ensure that the project could be concluded
within a reasonable time period, which was defined as end 2005 at the latest. Ensuing discussions with the
newly-appointed federal Government at the beginning of 2003, led to a series of agreements and
commitments which were summarized in the project's restructuring agreed upon in August 2003. Such
restructuring allowed project implementation to pick up in 2004 and 2005, with 3,000 km of rehabilitation
works concluded, or 45% of the total extension of road rehabilitation works undertaken under the project
(see graph below).

_____________________________
9see Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management Project (loan 4165-BR)




                                                        - 12 -

Expenditures (US$thousands)                                                                                                                                                   Executed (km)

  700,000                                                                                                                                                                         8,000



  600,000                                                                                                                                                                         7,000



                                                                                                                                                                                  6,000
  500,000                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL US$ thousands
                                                                                                                                                                                           Bird US$ thousands
                                                                                                                                                                                  5,000    Bid US$ thousands
  400,000                                                                                                                                                                                  Local US$ thousands

                                                                                                                                                                                  4,000    km TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                           km BIRD
  300,000
                                                                                                                                                                                           km BID
                                                                                                                                                                                  3,000


  200,000
                                                                                                                                                                                  2,000


  100,000                                                                                                                                                                         1,000



       0                                                                                                                                                                          0


       Dec-98Mar-99Jun-99Sep-99Dec-99Mar-00Jun-00Sep-00Dec-00Mar-01Jun-01Sep-01Dec-01Mar-02Jun-02Sep-02Dec-02Mar-03Jun-03Sep-03Dec-03Mar-04Jun-04Sep-04Dec-04Mar-05Jun-05Sep-05




d. Strengthening of ANTAQ component
For purposes of Annex 5 to this ICR, the achievement of the Institutional Development objective of this
component (introduced following project restructuring in 2002) is rated as negligible.

ANTAQ was created in 2002, at the same time as ANTT. Unfortunately, it was not until 2004 that
ANTAQ was able to structure a core operational structure, given staffing and budget issues. As such,
while a good dialogue was maintained between the project team and ANTAQ staff, it had not been possible
for ANTAQ to use project resources to carry out specific institutional strengthening activities. However, in
2004 and 2005, ANTAQ's operational capacity has gradually improved, and it was agreed between the
Government and the Bank, that new Bank support to ANTAQ's structuring would be provided under the
Equitable and Sustainable Growth Technical Assistance Project (loan 7253-BR).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The project's economic analysis was originally undertaken at the level of the entire remaining paved
network, and was not restricted to the road rehabilitation works to be undertaken under the Bank loan. The
a posteriori analysis was undertaken in the same fashion (and using the same hypothesis with respect to the
"without project" case and traffic projections beyond the project implementation period), at the level of the
actual remaining paved network, but in an extended time frame (1998-2005, instead of 1998-2002), taking
into account financing from the Borrower's Treasury, the Bank and the IADB. The main findings are
presented in the table below.




                                                                                                                           - 13 -

                                            Staff Appraisal Report estimate                 A posteriori estimate
Extension rehabilitated (km)                               13,800                                    13,700
Rehabilitation expenditures (US$                            1,150                                     1,400
million)
Maintenance expenditures (US$                                377                                       517
million)
NPV (US$ million @ 12%                                      3,400                                      2730
discount), on a 10 years period
IERR, on a 20 years period                                  106%                                       75%


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's main institutional development impacts have been to: (a) introduce in Brazil a new, more
efficient paradigm for road maintenance and rehabilitation, through a result-based approach which proved
to be successful for the Borrower, and prompted various state Governments as well as the federal
Government to request Bank assistance to structure and finance similar approaches to efficiently manage
their own road networks, aiming at gradually expanding the use of result-based contracts to manage the
entire remaining paved network; (b) participate in the preparation and implementation of the federal
transport administration's reorganization, as well as the strengthening of the framework for private sector
participation in transport infrastructure, mainly through provision of inputs to the drafting of the laws on
the reorganization of the federal transport administration, and on public-private partnerships, support to the
structuring of ANTT, financing of road concession feasibility studies, and organization of workshops on
specific themes such as structuring of PPP guarantee fund, and PPPs in the transport sector; (c) contribute
to support the debate on the decentralization of federal roads of local interest to states; and (d) help
coordinate, in particular through contributions to the structuring of the Pilot Investment Project, a
Government-level effort to address more effectively the issue of the federal road network condition, despite
severe constraints both on the fiscal and administrative sides (see sections 5 and 6 below).


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In the nineties, while Brazil succeeded to stabilize its inflation, it was still lagging behind in terms of fiscal
reform. As a result, Brazilian fiscal accounts deteriorated progressively to reach a critical point by the end
of the nineties. The federal Government's fiscal adjustment policy was accordingly tightened, which
resulted in minimum budgetary allocations to public investment, especially as expenditures related to civil
servants and social sectors were increasing10. As such, both budgetary allocations were quite lower than
needed under the federal highway rehabilitation and maintenance program, and even more so under the
federal highway decentralization program.
________________________________________
10in 2002, public investments represented less than 0.2% of GDP, compared to 4% of GDP in 1998, and up to 8% of GDP in
2003, in competitors' countries such as the East-Asia tigers, as well as India and China. As a result, studies have shown that
Brazil's infrastructure slowdown relative to East Asia accounts for about a third of the widening output gap between both
regions (see Calderon and Serven, 2004)




                                                            - 14 -

In addition, both federal administrations in office over the project's implementation period encountered (not
prima facie but de facto) strong political opposition at the level of the National Congress and the States, on
the formalization of the federal road decentralization program and the undertaking of the federal transport
administration's reorganization, as a number of federal-level politicians have associated the
decentralization process as a loss of federal influence, and a number of States have seen the
decentralization program as an occasion to request additional transfers from the federal Government11.
Similarly, in the first two years of the current administration, strong political opposition was voiced against
(a) increased private sector involvement in infrastructure; and (b) the separation of the handling of the
planning and policy matters (within ministries) and the regulatory matters (within regulatory agencies).
While this opposition gradually faded, it generated substantial delays in the implementation of, inter alia,
the federal road concession program12.

Such delays were compounded by a growing trend within central ministries (Planning and Finance) as well
as the General Accounting Office of requiring far more detailed information and justifications with respect
to the design and implementation of public and public-private sector investment programs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Changes in Government development priorities and levels of Government coordination have been two of the
main variables affecting project implementation         13 . Indeed, in a highly constrained fiscal environment
(which was the case in Brazil especially over the 2000-2003 period): (a) development priorities tend to be
more short-sighted and focused on enabling the Government to continue and meet its core obligations (e.g.
payment of salaries, social security, pension and social programs); and (b) high level of internal
Government coordination is required to ensure buy-in into the strategies to be followed and wide
participation in the decision-making process, especially when it comes to decisions on budgetary and
expenditure limits.

The 3 federal administrations involved in project implementation wrestled with the two above-mentioned
issues, with varying success, and, maybe not surprisingly, success was lowest during the period of highest
fiscal constraints.

Finally, incentives are generally low at the federal level to, within the context of financing of any public
program, use in priority external funding available for the program. Indeed: (a) budgets at the federal level
are fully funded (i.e. external funding is not additional), implying that the sector ministry gives equal
importance to external and internal funding resources14, and especially so in a highly fiscally-constrained
environment; and (b) while external funding is more costly to the Government, external funding represents
such a tiny fraction of the overall Government funding (about 2%), that a more efficient management of
such funding is not a high priority on the Government's agenda.
________________________________________
11this in the context where in 2001, the federal Government approved a law retaining all revenues from petroleum
products tax for financing of exclusively federal investments, principally in the transport sector (the revenues of
this tax used to be allocated to the states)
12as an indication of the impact of such opposition, the draft law elaborated in 2003 with the objective of clarifying
the responsibilities of the regulatory agencies vis-à-vis the ministries has still not been approved. In addition, it is
only at the end of the third year of this administration, that discussions on the undertaking of the second phase of
the federal road concession program could meaningfully restart.
13The project preparation and implementation period spanned 3 state administrations, respectively during the
1995-1998, 1999-2002, and 2003-2006 periods.
14despite the difference in cost to the Government



                                                        - 15 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The federal road administration suffered from an overall weak execution capacity, especially over the
2000-2003 period, taking into account the following facts: (a) the gradual deterioration of the
administration during the 1990s only came up as an actionable Government priority issue in 2002, by
which time morale was low within the administration's staff, staff numbers were decreasing by natural
attrition or voluntary departures, and no public hiring had been authorized since 1993, technical knowledge
had decreased, and the administration's procedures and information/management systems were outdated;
(b) the perturbations generated by the transition between DNER's closing and DNIT's creation in 2002;
and (c) the delays in the set-up of a core capacity within DNIT, as (i) no concrete action plan to address
DNER's weaknesses in the framework of DNIT's set-up had been approved from the onset; and (ii) it took
until the end of 2005, for a first public hiring to be authorized.

Starting in 2004, DNIT had put in place a core execution capacity for the management of the federal road
maintenance and rehabilitation program, which allowed project implementation to improve substantially.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project's physical output targets were basically achieved at a cost of US$530 million instead of
US$750 million as originally estimated15.. However, given the strong devaluation of the Brazilian real
vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar and the relatively low inflation over the project implementation period16, it is
estimated that the project's actual real cost in Brazilian reais is about 36% higher than originally estimated.
The main reasons for these cost increases include: (a) higher degradation of road condition (resulting from
large delays in contracting of works) which increased rehabilitation costs; (b) irregularity of payments to
contractors which led to various neutralization of works, and thus requirements to pay interests on late
payments, pay higher price adjustments, and revise work schedules; and (c) an increase in the price of
bituminous material of close to 100% over the project implementation period.




________________________________
15over the 2003-2004 period, both the Bank and the IADB loan sizes were reduced (respectively by US$50 and
US$70 million), as it became clear that the original amounts would not be necessary to achieve the project's
original targets, especially because of the strong devaluation of the local currency over the project implementation
period.
16US$1=RS1.05 in March 1997, US$1=RS3.7 in October 2002, US$1=RS2.2 in January 2006, and average
inflation rate of 8% p.a.




                                                        - 16 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The result-based concept for road rehabilitation and maintenance, as well as the related norms and
documents necessary to the concept's implementation have been well accepted by the Borrower, and by the
engineering and construction industry. In fact, the concept is at the center of the Borrower's strategy for
managing its paved network, and is increasingly accepted by other states and the federal administration. In
addition, during project implementation, the federal road administration succeeded in structuring a core
technical capacity to manage such contracts. Finally, the present Government considers the rehabilitation
of the paved network as a high-priority development objective, and has set-up an effective coordination
mechanism between the Ministries of Transport, Finance and Planning to ensure that progress could be
made toward reaching that objective.

In particular, as the federal fiscal situation had marginally improved by 2004, the Government has
structured a Pilot Investment Project (PPI), with initial support from the IMF and the Bank. The PPI aims
at, within a still tight fiscal framework, making available resources which cannot be submitted to budget
freeze and are additional to budgetary allocations (up to 0.5% of GDP over the 2005-2007 period) to
support a selected few key infrastructure investment programs, recognizing that: (a) demand for
infrastructure investment was far greater than availability of funding, and as such, a prioritization was
required based on the programs' expected economic returns; and (b) a number of infrastructure investment
programs were not optimally designed, or were to be executed by an entity with low capacity, which would
put program implementation performance at risk17. The planning and execution of programs under the PPI
is coordinated and monitored by an inter-ministerial working group which is in charge, inter alia, of
identifying implementation issues which are beyond the competence of the sector ministry/agency, and
propose a Government-level solution to resolve the issues (e.g. lack of staffing issues needs to be dealt with
jointly by the sector ministry, the Planning and Finance Ministries, as well as the National Congress).

In addition, the Government, recognizing on the one hand the limitations of a traditional Bank lending
approach such as the one followed under the project, and on the other hand, the added-value of the Bank at
the policy/technical level, has requested support from the Bank to prepare a follow-up operation (Road
Transport Project, P092990) to provide support at the program level (vs. contract level) to increase the
efficiency of the federal road maintenance and rehabilitation program, especially through the definition and
implementation of a series of improvements at the policy, process and administrative levels at the level of
the program and the road administration, including an expanded use of result-based contracts for carrying
out of road works. To take into acount the lessons learned from this operation (see Section 8), the
follow-up operation has been, inter alia, structured following a sector-wide approach and aims at gradually
consolidating a partnership between the Ministries of Planning, Finance and Transport to allow for a more
efficient planning and execution of the program.

Taking the above into account, the sustainability of project outcome is considered likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No specific transition arrangement is required to allow for regular project operation.

__________________________________
17in 2005, the federal road maintenance and rehabilitation program received by far the largest single budgetary
allocation under the PPI (at about US$500 million).




                                                    - 17 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project's objective was in line with the Government's development strategy, the components were well
targeted, the overall project evaluation was realistic, the project's implementation structure was well
designed, and the project team adequately staffed. On the other hand, the project's risk analysis could have
benefited from a more in-depth evaluation of the main conditions necessary to a successful implementation
of the federal road decentralization program, and, to take into account such risk, the project objectives
could have been more modest. In addition, the SAR could have more clearly presented the objectives and
targets to be achieved by the end of the project, as well as the division of responsibilities between the Bank
and the IADB. Nevertheless, in an overall fashion, Bank performance during lending is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
During implementation, the project team maintained a constant and comprehensive dialogue with the
Borrower to identify and help resolve the main implementation issues, and in doing so, received full support
from sector management. Supervision intensity was adequate, both in terms of site visits (on average, two
a year) and in terms of experience/knowledge of project team members.               Both choices to shift to
result-based contracts for road maintenance and rehabilitation and to restructure the project revealed
judicious. Finally, the project team succeeded in making substantial contributions to the sector policy
dialogue, at a time of changes. As such, Bank performance in supervising the project is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's involvement in project preparation was adequate and several key actions to facilitate project
implementation were undertaken, such as: drafting of decentralization agreements, negotiation of delegation
agreements with 7 states, drafting of the amendments to the National Highway System law, preparation of
economic and environmental evaluations for the 1998-1999 road rehabilitation program, and definition of
the catalogue of technical solutions to be used for rehabilitation works to be financed under the project.
The performance of the Borrower during project preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The margin of maneuver of the federal Government over the 1998-2005 period was substantially
constrained by: (a) fiscal difficulties, especially over the 2000-2003 period; (b) weak coordination between
the executive and the legislative branches, and within the executive branch, especially during the
2003-2004 period; and (c) a generally difficult relationship with the state Governments. Despite these
constraints, the federal Government succeeded in proceeding with: (a) the reorganization of the federal
transport administration, (b) the approval of public hiring for DNIT; (c) structuring the PPI; and (d)
maintaining the minimum of funding available (as defined in the SAR) under the federal road maintenance
and rehabilitation program, to avoid a significant deterioration of the remaining network. In addition, the
Government was successful at keeping open the debate on its road decentralization program, and is now
preparing the bidding of the second phase of its road concession program. On the other hand, the
Government could have: (a) structured and approved an action plan to ensure an efficient implementation
of the law on the reorganization of the federal transport administration; and (b) prioritized expenditures to
be financed by external resources.

Overall, Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory.



                                                      - 18 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Generally speaking, the federal road administration handled adequately the technical issues faced during
implementation, especially those emanating from the introduction of the result-based concept to road
maintenance and rehabilitation.        In addition, the project implementation unit assumed well its
responsibilities with respect to procurement and reporting requirements. However, as mentioned earlier,
the overall weak capacity of the road administration until 2003 slowed down project implementation,
through delays in preparation of designs, bidding and contracting, as well as supervision and payments.

The implementing agency's performance is rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Projects undertaken in a difficult fiscal and political context should be simple but sound: a rapid
evaluation of Bank investment operations at the level of the Brazilian federal Government shows uniformity
on the two main issues which have significantly affected project implementation over the last 8 years: fiscal
difficulties and weak political coordination. It also shows that, despite lots of efforts both on the federal
Government and Bank sides, no immediate solution could be found to resolve these issues. While during
project preparation, risks associated with these two issues should have been evaluated more in depth, and
specific mitigatory measures proposed, it also appears that there is a limit to how such issues can
effectively be handled in the framework of a Bank operation. The question can thus be asked as to
whether, in a difficult political context, Bank operations should be focusing on narrower, but still
well-justified objectives, for which there is a broad political consensus, and a clear path to achieve them.
For example, the achievement of project objectives rested in part on good progress in the implementation of
the Government's decentralization and concession policies two hotly debated topics in Brazil. On the other
hand, there has been and still there is a broad consensus on the necessity of improving the condition of the
remaining federal paved road network. In the same vein, the question can be asked as to whether a
traditional investment approach can still be considered as adequate, when supporting a Borrower working
with fully-funded budgets with high-levels of earmarking, and facing cash flow management difficulties.
Indeed, under such circumstances, experience has shown that the Borrower does not have sufficient
incentives to prioritize external funding sources. Instead, the use of innovative approaches (such as a
sector-wide approach with, when feasible, use of country systems) seems to be more promising, based on
early results to date at the federal level. Finally, the relevance of a program-based approach could also be
questioned.

... and should seek to build a broad-based support for successful implementation: the weaker the political
coordination, the higher the need to build, thin project design, incentives to foster Government-wide interest
in a successful project implementation. In the case of this project, it clearly appears that the fact that the
Ministries of Finance and Planning did not have incentives in getting involved in project implementation
proved to be a disadvantage, when, during implementation, issues such as lack of funding, delays in
payments, lack of staffing were discussed, issues which, by nature, are well beyond the competencies of the
road administration and the Ministry of Transport.

Result-based contracts are effective: the execution of the project confirmed the efficiency of result-based
contracts for road maintenance and rehabilitation contracts, even in a fiscally-constrained environment,
with respect to the following: (a) rehabilitation works are followed by maintenance services within the same



                                                      - 19 -

contract, which allows to partially address chronic lack of network maintenance, and improve contractor's
accountability with respect to rehabilitation works; (b) contract flexibility allows to accommodated large
variations in the client's payment capacity; (c) result-based contracts allow for simpler but more efficient
supervision of contract execution; (d) longer term contracts and transfer of responsibility of final design to
the contractor allow to lower the risks as perceived by the contractors; and (e) contracts cover longer
extension of road sections, for longer periods of time, thus significantly reducing the number of
procurement processes to be undertaken. Since its introduction in Brazil within the state of Rio Grande do
Sul, the result-based concept has been adopted at the national level as well as by various states.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1 - Comments from the DNER/DNIT

The OC-4188 loan main objectives were the road rehabilitation, the decentralization of the public
administration, the strengthening of the presence of the private sector in investments in the rehabilitation of
the network and the institutional strengthening of the public sector.

During the program implementation, several results were achieved contributing to the evolution and
improvement of the planning and administration systems, such as, the application of the HDM program as
a tool supporting the definition of the investment policies and the various training sessions implemented.

The CREMA and PIR IV programs had very positive results and fostered evolutions in both technical and
managerial terms, through the implementation of the concept of equivalent solutions and the total
integration of rehabilitation works and maintenance services.

Some problems were observed, as for instance, the government's low levels of budget execution, the delays
between the elaboration of the projects design and the beginning of the works and the constants revisions of
the designs of the projects.

The presence of the Bank was quite satisfactory, and its role, besides a financier agent, consisted in
supporting and defending technical evolutions, the application of best practices and of the development of
the management capacity.


2 - Comments from the Ministry of Transport

The innovative concepts introduced by the Project contributed to the implementation of substantial
modifications in the planning and management of the road network of the country, inducing substantial
changes to the operational scheme traditionally adopted by the DNIT, executing agency of the road policy.
Among the most relevant, it is worth to note:
- the reduction of the number of bids procured annually by the DNIT, as a fundamental result of the
adoption of the output-based contracts such as CREMA;
- the contracting through global prices, instead of contracting through unit prices, and then the adoption of
output-based contracts such as CREMA;
- the presence, on extended periods of time, of the Contractors on the bidded road section, as the contracts
include both rehabilitation and maintenance of the sections under their responsibility
- the change occurred in the supervision by the DNIT, which has progressively reduced its dependence to
individual firms for the supervision of specific road sections and has started to directly undertake the role of



                                                    - 20 -

supervisor.

The Project also contributed, through the allocation of specific resources, to initiate the process of
decentralization of the federal roads, which triggered in practice a new conception of the road management
in the country. The first agreements concerning works delegated management signed with several states of
the Federation and financed through resources from the loan, marked, in fact, the beginning of the process,
which then was accelerated the Medida Provisória nb 82/2002 was published.

The joint participation of two funding institutions ­ the Inter-American Development Bank ­ IADB also
financed part of the project ­ provided to the technicians of the DNIT the opportunity to benefit from the
respective experience of these two banks gathered in similar projects in other countries, favouring the
transmission of knowledge and information.


3 - Comments from the ANTT

The technical and financial participation of the World Bank through the Loan No. 4.188 ­ BR provided
significant support to ANTT´s institutional strengthening, since the phase of the sector´s restructuring and
mainly in the phase of implementation of the Regulatory Agencies, allowing the improvement and
continuity of the process of concession of land transport service.

The contracted consulting services allowed the development of: a) management information system to the
road concessions; b) definition of several rules and regulations in the sector, including the concession of
railway transport, international and interstate land transport of passengers, interchangeable traffic in the
railways, dependent clients and transportation of dangerous products; c) design of ANTT´s organizational
and human resource structure and development of strategic planning process and d) management training.

That technical support assisted ANTT in the design of the program for hiring permanent staff, through the
realization of the 1 public contest, in the 2 semester of 2005; the elaboration of 8 plans of grants for
                    st                        nd


transport of passengers service; the conclusion of the plan for granting 7 lots of federal highways, totalizing
2.600 km; and the establishment of five-years targets for the highway concession contracts and penalties
for non accomplishment.

The Bank´s technical support was fundamental to the holding of the workshop about PPPs in the Transport
Sector, tool for regulation and oversight, and for orientation regarding the best international practices. The
continuity of the partnership with IBRD is relevant in this phase of institutional consolidation and
development of the Agency. The signing of the contract for Loan No 7253 ­ BR for the Sustainable and
Equitable Growth Technical Assistance Program, on the 4 of October of 2005, will allow the continuity of
                                                            th


the World Bank ´s technical and financial support in the strengthening of ANTT, in the improvement of the
new plans for grants in the land transport sector and of the regulation and oversight rules for the granted
services.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.




                                                    - 21 -

10. Additional Information

Annex 0 - I

The table below presents the planned and achieved indicators as related to the Federal Road Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Program as a whole, as well as the financial contribution from the Bank and the IADB
to such Program. The specific contribution of the Bank to the Program is presented in Annex 1, Output
Indicators table. The "1997" column presents the baseline data used in the Staff Appraisal Report. The
"2000" and "2002" columns under the "planned" section of the table represent the targets which were
planned (at appraisal) to be achieved by the end of, respectively, the first and second phases.
                                                                                          Planned                         Implemented
                                                                                 1997      2000       2002            2000        2002  2005
Development Objectives
 1 Improve Condition of the Highway Network
   Remaining IRI>5                                                                12.0      6.0        1.0        7.5        10.0       13.0
   Remaining IRI<3                                                                34.0     45.0       52.0       41.0        30.0       27.0
   Remaining paved network size                                                49,200.0   35,480.0   27,500.0   36,300.0   36,300.0    36,300.0
   Transferred IRI>5                                                              20.0      9.0        2.0       20.0        21.0       22.0
   Transferred IRI<3                                                              36.0     41.0       45.0       27.0        21.0       22.0
   Transferred paved network size                                                 0.0     8,520.0    12,500.0   9000*       9000*       9000*
 2 Reduce Road Transport Costs
   Averaged VOC                                                                   42.0     41.0       39.5       41.2        40.0       39.5
 3 Decentralize Highway Responsibilities
   Thousands of km of highway transferred to States                               0.0      10.0       17.5        0.0         0.0        0.7
 4 Increase Private Sector Management and Financing
   Thousands of km concessions tendered                                           0.8       5.0       10.0        4.7         4.7        4.7
   % of Federal network under maint manag contracts                              0.0%     15.0%      75.0%       0.0%       10.7%       23.0%
 5 Strengthen Highway Agencies' Maintenance Capabilities
   Rehabilitation Costs**                                                         90.0     83.0       75.0       120.0      100.0       85.0
   Nb of DER with PMS                                                             5.0      11.0       15.0       13.0        13.0       13.0

Implementation Performance
 1 Decentralization Component
   Nb of decentralization agreements                                              5.0      16.0       18.0        5.0        15.0       15.0
   Nb of Delegation agreements                                                    3.0       7.0        7.0        3.0         3.0        3.0
   Km of works contracted on transferred network                                 100.0    3,200.0    3,800.0     377.0      491.0       491.0
   Km of works implemented on transferred network                                 0.0     2,100.0    3,800.0     222.0      337.0       488.0
 2 Concession Development Component
   Nb of man month of TA to Concession                                            15.0     110.0      120.0      16.0        16.0       140.0
   Nb of staff trainee-weeks on concession                                        25.0     175.0      200.0      14.0        14.0       120.0
   Nb of km of Studies completed                                                2,000.0   7,000.0    10,000.0   12,430.0   12,430.0    15,530.0
 3 Federal Highway Component
   Km of works contracted on Remaining network                                  2,000.0   8,750.0    10,000.0   6,808.3    16,720.1    18,170.3
   Km of works implemented on Remaining network                                  250.0    6,200.0    10,000.0   5,131.7     7,714.5    13,695.8
   Average costs on Operational and Safety improv                                 5.3       5.3        5.3        5.0         4.0        3.8
   Average costs on environmental and rehabilitation                              4.7       4.7        4.7        3.7         2.9        2.7
   Routine maintenance DNER/DNIT budget                                          110.0     78.0       63.0       78.8       153.8       55.0
 4 Project Funding
   Counterpart funding                                                            5.0      150.0      250.0      439.8      677.9      1,046.1
   Bank funding                                                                   20.0     300.0      500.0      150.0      141.0       247.7
   IDB funding                                                                             300.0      500.0      76.9        94.0       142.7
* Extension of network foreseen to be transferred, still part of the remaining network
** Includes rehabilitation and/or maintenance management contracts




                                                                                  - 22 -

Annex 0 - II - Detailed Partner Comments

 1 - Comments from the DNER/DNIT

 The OC-4188 loan main objectives were the road rehabilitation, the decentralization of the public
 administration, the strengthening of the presence of the private sector in investments in the rehabilitation
 of the network and the institutional strengthening of the public sector.

 During the program implementation, several results were achieved contributing to the evolution and
 improvement of the planning and administration systems, such as, the application of the HDM program
 as a tool supporting the definition of the investment policies and the various training sessions
 implemented.

 The CREMA and PIR IV programs had very positive results and fostered evolutions in both technical
 and managerial terms, through the implementation of the concept of equivalent solutions and the total
 integration of rehabilitation works and maintenance services.

 Some problems were observed, as for instance, the government's low levels of budget execution, the
 delays between the elaboration of the projects design and the beginning of the works and the constants
 revisions of the designs of the projects.

 The presence of the Bank was quite satisfactory, and its role, besides a financier agent, consisted in
 supporting and defending technical evolutions, the application of best practices and of the development
 of the management capacity.

 1.1. Objectives

 The Program's main objective was the improvement of the conditions of the main highways of the road
 network and the maintenance of the levels of service on a sustainable basis, with a view to reduce the
 operational costs for the Road Transport.

 To attain these objectives, the structuring of the investments considered as main implementation actions:

 i)   Rehabilitation of sections of the federal road network;
 ii)  Decentralization of selected road sections, considered as a regional and not strategic interest for the
 Union, through the delegation of the jurisdictional responsibilities for the State Governments;
 iii) Increase of the participation of the private sector in the financing of the investments and in the
 management of road sections, through concession and maintenance contracts based on performance
 levels;

 iv)  Reinforcement of the capacity of the road administration institutions, at the federal and state levels,
 to prepare, contract and monitor, in an efficient way, the rehabilitation and maintenance activities, and
 the concession contracts, in selected road segments.

 In order to establish the Program most appropriate planning and implementation policies, the
 HDM/EBM model was used to formulate an economical viability analysis, based on technical patterns
 for road maintenance currently applied and on the evaluation of effective execution costs, with a view to
 define priorities among the rehabilitation works eligible in the framework of the Program.


                                                    - 23 -

This analysis, which took into account assumptions for budget restrictions during the programs
execution, included the totality of the Brazilian road network extension, both the network remaining
under the Federal jurisdiction and the roads to be delegated to the State.

The strategy developed to attain the objectives defined by these economical evaluations included:

i)    The preparation of a catalogue of technical solutions associated to the traffic levels and to the
conditions of the road sections;
ii)   The determination of an average unitary cost associated to each solution of the catalogue; and
iii) The elaboration of a preliminary cronogram of execution based on the priorities defined by the
economic models.

These actions allowed to establish an appropriate degree of consistency for the Program's planning and
implementation, through the establishment of correspondences between the parameters resulting from the
engineering projects and the parameters obtained through the HDM/EBM model evaluations.

Other actions implemented included:

i)    The Coordination of the Program, at that time, developed together with the technicians of the road
institutions, the Instruction of Service DG/DNER n.º 007/98, published on April 15, 1998, which
formulated the criteria for the elaboration of road rehabilitation projects designs and introduced the
concept of optimization of the financial resources allocation, in order to permit interventions on larger
extent of the road network. This was achieved through the development of low cost solutions compatible
with HDM/EBM model catalogue of solutions, for the reinforcement pavement layers, based on the
observed following parameters: traffic levels, surface irregularities, cracking and layer deflections;
ii)   Diffusion by the Coordination of the Program, through previously scheduled meetings, of the
Instruction of Service concepts to representatives of consulting companies and contractors, technicians
from the DNIT's regional units and companies involved in the adaptations of the available executive
designs;
iii) Strengthening of the team in charge of the Project designs evaluation, through the allocation of
technician specialized in different fields of road design, aiming at guiding the elaboration of the project
design revisions in line with the criteria stipulated in the IS - 007/98 DG/DNER, 04/15/1998;
iv)   Decision of the Government road administration, supported by the funding institutions of
program's, to introduce a new model of management of the federal road network through CREMA
contracts, conjugating rehabilitation works and maintenance services for the concerned sections;
v)    Structuring of the CREMA model for its implementation in the country and preparation of the
basic bidding documents, in a view to design a new form of management of the road maintenance
services;
vi)   Training program for the teams of the DNER/DNIT regional units, aiming at ensuring the
supervision of the bidded road sections, on the documents elaborated and the procedures needed for the
supervision and control of the works;

1.2. Positive points reached by the OC-4188 Loan

i) Consolidation of the concept of rehabilitation and maintenance integrated contracts

The implementation of the CREMA program represented a great innovation in the way road public
works are contracted in Brazil, once, a pioneering way, it introduced the concept of risk sharing between
the employer and the contractor in road works.


                                                   - 24 -

The CREMA program, after a slow starting, shows a high level of efficiency as it includes, as a
fundamental feature, the continuous routine maintenance of the roads, activity witch, as it is not
regularly implemented, ,represents the main deficiency of the paved federal network.

The following table shows a list of the CREMA contracts financed by the World Bank, providing
general information such as the contracted company, starting dates, concerned lots, values, total
extension.

No            Name                        Contract Value  Ext.(km)  BR                        CI      Lot    Signature
PG-168/2001   VIA / ETEC ­ CANCELED       42.838.198,00   28,5      BR-20/40/70/251-DF-GO     100/99  GO 01  11-dec-01
TT-115/2003   ECOMIPA                     28.032.075,06   231,7     BR-153/GO                         GO 02  11-nov-03
TT-116/2003   MARINS/PAVOTEC              35.690.098,89   212,4     BR-153/GO                         GO 03  10-nov-03
TT-114/2003   PAVIA                       27.235.406,00   251,1     BR-010/MA                         MA 01  31-out-03
PG-165/2001   CBEMI                       31.557.855,60   206,7     BR-135/MA                         MA 03  11-dec-01
PG-167/2001   QUEIROZ GALVÃO              39.419.484,50   300,6     BR-316/MA                         MA 04  11-dec-01
PG-166/2001   EGESA                       55.401.331,00   424,0     BR-040/MG                         MG 01  11-dec-01
TT-117/2003   DELTA                       57.188.072,10   572,6     BR-010/316/PA                     PA 01  31-out-03
TT-118/2003   TOP                         25.363.828,05   217,6     BR-316/PI                         PI 01  14-nov-03
TT-119/2003   CONSTRUMIL                  23.827.760,91   205,6     BR-316/PI                         PI 02  31-out-03
TT-103/2003   ARG                         42.689.206,98   398,2     BR-153/226/TO                     TO 01  17-out-03
PG-169/2001   ARG                         37.126.492,00   395,4     BR-153/TO                         TO 02  11-dec-01


The success of the CREMA program impelled the design and implementation of the correlated program
denominated, in its current version, the PIR IV.

ii) The PIR-IV Program

Initially applied in a view to accelerate the loan disbursements, the PIR-IV showed to be more than a
simple new road program. In fact, the trend has been to consider the PIR-IV implementation for the
revitalization, rehabilitation and maintenance of the whole federal network.

This program introduced stand out innovations goes beyond any other experience in the world, including
the equivalent solutions concept, the model of monitoring adopted and the automatic renewal of
contracts.

The equivalent solutions concept was introduced as a form to normalize a tendency that was practically
a rule in the road works contracts, the project adaptations. It consists in proposing distinct options of
technically equivalent solutions to the bidders, giving them the opportunity to choose the one that are
judged the best option in operational terms and costs.

Thus the adopted monitoring methodology has revealed an innovative approach once it inverted the
usually applied order of the project elaboration and works supervision processes. In the case of the
PIR-IV, it was realized that the project design would be optimized if the same company was also
entrusted the supervision of the works and monitoring of the performance indicators of the contracts.

The PIR IV contracts possess an unique characteristic in the road work contracts national context,
which is the possibility of an automatic renewal of the contracts, with the contracting party's agreement,
for equal period of time and value, in view of providing continuity to the highway activities maintenance.
This also allows the application of resources for interventions in the segments that were not
contemplated in the first phase of the contract. The renewal represents, besides, a reduction of costs and



                                                   - 25 -

    time, since the opening of a new bidding process is not necessary any more.

    The following table details the PIR IV contracts financed by IRDB, indicating general information, as
    contracted company, start dates and lot, values, total extension.


CT               Name                  Contract value Ext.(km)  BR                CI     Lot  Signature date
TT-070/2005      APIA / ARAGUAIA       12.522.176,78 174        BR-365/MG         176/03 L-09 01-jun-05

TT-071/2005      SUCESSO S/A           5.971.246,19   79,3      BR-365/MG                L-10 08-jul-05

TT-085/2005      TOP / TESCON          14.500.281,62 157        BR-158/GO         272/03 L-05 03- aug-05

TT-087/2005      TESCON                4.475.442,79   79,5      BR-364/GO                L-09 02- aug -05

TT-146/2005      EMSA                  6.494.358,55   162,3     BR-060/153/414/GO 273/03 L-02 18-out-05

TT-150/2004      CONSTRUMIL            6.352.241,11   84        BR-060/GO                L-04 20-set-04

TT-135/2004      PAVIA                 7.572.362,26   105       BR-262/MS         152/03 L-01 28-jul-04

TT-152/2004      CROS                  9.997.413,60   169,1     BR-365/MG         176/03 L-06 06-out-04

TT-028/2004      PAVISAN/CONSERVA      9.522.093,44   122,8     BR-135/MG         194/03 L-01 13-mac-04

TT-087/2004      SUCESSO S/A           9.903.198,88   142,2     BR-135/MG                L-02 15-jun-04

TT-029/2004      SUCESSO S/A           6.460.300,05   85,5      BR-135/MG                L-03 13-mar-04

TT-030/2004      CCM CENTRO MINAS      8.605.137,56   133,7     BR-146/267/MG            L-17 13-mar-04

TT-105/2004      PAVIA                 10.848.889,16 179,9      BR-285/472/RS     263/03 L-03 20-jul-04

TT-113/2004      PAVIA                 8.033.436,11   128,6     BR-293/RS                L-06 20-jul-04

TT-104/2004      PAVIA                 9.028.582,51   134       BR-386/RS                L-07 20-jul-04

TT-106/2004      TV / SBS              8.035.882,52   145,5     BR-153/RS                L-10 20-jul-04

TT-177/2004      PAVIA                 11.422.753,29 203,4      BR-287/RS         265/03 L-04 08-nov-04

TT-144/2004      PAVIA                 11.061.726,75 249        BR-472/RS                L-08 08-set-04




    1.3. Performance

    The factors that negatively affected the Program's implementation and performance are:

    i)    Excessive delays observed between the finalization of the projects and the conclusion of the bidding
    processes for the works, affecting the Program's goals and incurring discrepancies between the
    approved solutions and the real deterioration of the pavements conditions;
    ii)   Compromising of the physical-financial works schedule, due to systematic requests of Project
    design revisions during work phase, including changes implementation schedule and contract values
    originally negotiated;
    iii) Negotiations failure between representatives of the Federal and State Governments, concerning the
    formalization of Delegation Agreements, due to resistance of the state administrations to assume the
    maintenance of the roads planned to be transferred, even after the rehabilitation implemented with the



                                                       - 26 -

Program resources;
iv)   Postponement of the program of road concessions to the private sector, due to the questioning of
the model and regulatory boundaries for the bidding of new sections, imposed by different federal
institutions.
v)    At the end of the first year of the program execution, 1998, serious international financial crises
happened with direct impacts on the Country's economy, resulting in strong fiscal adjustments, through
restrictions in the Union budget, with direct impact on the solution of continuity of the Program during
all its execution period.

1.4. Qualitative Evaluation

The performance of the Bank in this area was satisfactory. The initial proposal for financing the 1st
Stage of the Program planned a total amount of US$ 750.00 million including contribution of the World
Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank and the Federal Government. For the implementation of
the strategies of formulation of the Program, the Bank undertook an extensive dialogue with the
governmental institutions in charge of the formulation of the road sector transport policy, in a view to
provide advises for the preparation of all of the institutional, technical and economical aspects of the
Program, based on the acquired positive experiences in previous similar operations.
The Bank Missions were composed of specialists in different technical and administrative fields. As a
result of these missions, adapted changes in the agreements between the bank and the government
allowed to adequately implement and monitor the Program.
The financial structuring and the disbursement system revealed operationally functional, as well as the
planning developed for implantation and the agreed performance indicators.




                                                - 27 -

                                                     Financial performance of the Loan
The following graphs present the annual values spent in the loan OC-4188, showing in particular the
financial performance of the PIR IV Program

Loan Agreement BIRD 4188/BR
Expenses per year (US$)

                                               Acordo de Empréstimo BIRD 4188/BR
                                                    Valores Gastos por Ano (US$)


  55.000.000



  50.000.000



  45.000.000



  40.000.000



  35.000.000



  30.000.000



  25.000.000



  20.000.000



  15.000.000



  10.000.000



   5.000.000



           0
                 1998         1999            2000          2001            2002         2003            2004         2005

     Outros   23.801.970   34.857.382      54.500.728     22.800.755     20.565.352   15.876.275      41.332.808   16.916.356

     PIR IV       0            0               0              0              0            0           6.203.932    12.058.045




                                                Acordo de Empréstimo BIRD 4188/BR
                                                    Valores Gastos por Ano (US$)


  45.000.000




  40.000.000




  35.000.000




  30.000.000




  25.000.000




  20.000.000




  15.000.000




  10.000.000




   5.000.000




           0
                                      2004                                                      2005

     PIR IV                        6.203.932                                                  12.058.045

     Outros                        41.332.808                                                 16.916.356




                                                                        - 28 -

2 - Comments from the Ministry of Transport

The innovative concepts introduced by the Project contributed to the implementation of substantial
modifications in the planning and management of the road network of the country, inducing substantial
changes to the operational scheme traditionally adopted by the DNIT, executing agency of the road policy.
Among the most relevant, it is worth to note:

- the reduction of the number of bids procured annually by the DNIT, as a fundamental result of the
adoption of the output-based contracts such as CREMA;
- the contracting through global prices, instead of contracting through unit prices, and then the adoption of
output-based contracts such as CREMA;
- the presence, on extended periods of time, of the Contractors on the bidded road section, as the contracts
include both rehabilitation and maintenance of the sections under their responsibility
- the change occurred in the supervision by the DNIT, which has progressively reduced its dependence to
individual firms for the supervision of specific road sections and has started to directly undertake the role of
supervisor.

The Project also contributed, through the allocation of specific resources, to initiate the process of
decentralization of the federal roads, which triggered in practice a new conception of the road management
in the country. The first agreements concerning works delegated management signed with several states of
the Federation and financed through resources from the loan, marked, in fact, the beginning of the process,
which then was accelerated the Medida Provisória nb 82/2002 was published.

The joint participation of two funding institutions ­ the Inter-American Development Bank ­ IADB also
financed part of the project ­ provided to the technicians of the DNIT the opportunity to benefit from the
respective experience of these two banks gathered in similar projects in other countries, favoring the
transmission of knowledge and information.



3 - Comments from ANTT

The technical and financial participation of the World Bank through the Loan No. 4.188 ­ BR provided
significant support to ANTT´s institutional strengthening, since the phase of the sector´s restructuring and
mainly in the phase of implementation of the Regulatory Agencies, allowing the improvement and
continuity of the process of concession of land transport service.

The contracted consulting services allowed the development of: a) management information system to the
road concessions; b) definition of several rules and regulations in the sector, including the concession of
railway transport, international and interstate land transport of passengers, interchangeable traffic in the
railways, dependent clients and transportation of dangerous products; c) design of ANTT´s organizational
and human resource structure and development of strategic planning process and d) management training.

That technical support assisted ANTT in the design of the program for hiring permanent staff, through the
realization of the 1 public contest, in the 2 semester of 2005; the elaboration of 8 plans of grants for
                    st                         nd


transport of passengers service; the conclusion of the plan for granting 7 lots of federal highways, totalizing
2.600 km; and the establishment of five years targets for the highway concession contracts and penalties for
non accomplishment.



                                                    - 29 -

The Bank´s technical support was fundamental to the holding of the workshop about PPPs in the Transport
Sector, tool for regulation and oversight, and for orientation regarding the best international practices. The
continuity of the partnership with IBRD is relevant in this phase of institutional consolidation and
development of the Agency. The signing of the contract for Loan No 7253 ­ BR for the Sustainable and
Equitable Growth Technical Assistance Program, on the 4 of October of 2005, will allow the continuity of
                                                            th


the World Bank ´s technical and financial support in the strengthening of ANTT, in the improvement of the
new plans for grants in the land transport sector and of the regulation and oversight rules for the granted
services.




                                                    - 30 -

    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

     Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                   Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                    Actual/Latest Estimate
     Improve Condition of Highway Network       PAD:1 / last PSR: 12                     13
     Federal Network % length w/IRI>5

     Improve Condition of Main Network          PAD: 52 / last PSR: 27                   27
     Federal Network % with IRI<3
     Improve Condition of Highway Network       PAD: 2 / last PSR: 17                    22
     % length of transferred Network with IRI>5
     Improve Condition of Main Network          PAD: 45 / last PSR: 24                   22
     % length of transferred Network with IRI<3
     Reduce Road Transport Costs                PAD: 39.5 / last PSR: 40.9               39.5
     Average HDM VOC (US$cent/veh-km)
     Decentralize Highway Responsibilities      PAD: 17.5 / last PSR: 8.2*               0.7
     000, km of highway transferred (cumulated)
     Increase Private Sector Management and     PAD: 10 / last PSR: 4.7                  4.7
     Financing
     km of Federal Roads on which concession
     has been tendered (cumulated)
     Increase Private Sector Management and     PAD: 75 / last PSR: 22                   25.4
     Financing
     % of Federal paved network under
     maintenance management contract
     Strengthen Highway Agencies' Maintenance PAD: 75 / last PSR: 87                     85
     Capabilities
     Max. average rehabilitation cost ($000/km)
     Strengthen Highway Agencies' Maintenance PAD: 15 / last PSR: 13                     13
     Capabilities
     Number of Highway Agencies with Pavement
     Management Systems

* The rating of the last ISR shows that 8,200 km. of highways were transferred through decentralization agreements signed between
the federal and state governments; however, most of these agreements are undergoing legal dispute by the states, and as such are
not yet effective.




                                                                  - 31 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Decentralization Component                   PAD: 18 / last PSR: 15                     14
Number of States with Decentralization
Agreements (cumulated)
Decentralization Component                   PAD: 7 / last PSR: 3                       3
Number of States with Delegation
Agreements (cumulated)
State Subproject Preparation (km of          PAD: 3800 / last PSR: 491                  491
contracted works, cumulated
State Subproject Preparation (km of executed PAD: 3800 / last PSR: 491                  488
works, cumulated)
Concession Development Component             PAD: 120 / last PSR: 105                   140
Number of man-months of technical
assistance (cumulated)
Concession Development Component             PAD: 200 / last PSR: 16*                   120
Number of trainee-weeks provided
(cumulated)
Concession Development Component -           PAD: 10,000 / last PSR: 15,530             15,530
Studies (km of Studies completed)
Federal Highway Component                    PAD: 10,000 / last PSR: 12,111             ** 12,994 /  18,170
Length of contracted works of road
rehabilitation (km, cumulated))
Federal Highway Component Length of          PAD: 10,000 / last PSR: 6,312              ** 7,246  /  13,695
executed works (km, cumulated)
Federal Highway Component Operational and PAD: 5.3 / last PSR: 3.8                      3.8
Safety improvements (maximum average
cost, US$000/km)
Federal Highway Component Environmental      PAD: 4.7 / last PSR: 2.7                   2.7
Rehabilitation (maximum average cost,
US$000/km)
Federal Highway Component                    PAD: 63 / last PSR: 74.5                   55
DNER/DNITRoutine maintenance budget
(US$million)
Project Funding Counterpart Funds (US$       PAD: 250 / last PSR: 134                   ** 135   /  1,046
million eq., cumulated)
Project Funding Bank funds (US$ million eq. PAD: 500 / last PSR: 230                    250
cumulated)
Project funding IDB funds (US$ million eq.   PAD: 500 / last PSR: 163                   145
cumulated)

1End of project
* Activities under the concession training component picked by project-end through project support to the structuring of the
ANTT.
** The first figure is the latest estimate computed following the PSRs focus solely on the Bank-financed part of the project,
whereas the second figure is the latest estimate computed following the ICR focus on the Federal Road Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Program as a whole (to provide the necessary link between outputs and outcomes).




                                                              - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                   Appraisal       Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate           Estimate     Appraisal
                         Component                                US$ million       US$ million
1) Rehabilitation of Transferred Highways                             71.25               39.38           58
2) Rehabilitation of Federal Highways                               250.00              251.79           105
3) Studies and Work Supervision                                       17.50               11.00           65
4) Technical Assistance and Training                                  13.00                9.65           74

Total Baseline Cost                                                 351.75              311.82
 Physical Contingencies                                               16.20                0.00            0
 Price Contingencies                                                   7.05                0.00            0
                           Total Project Costs                      375.00              311.82
                   Total Financing Required                         375.00              311.82
Note: The project was restructured (not formally) and US$ 50 m of the loan were cancelled.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                    2          N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                          Other
1. Works                              176.35            160.00             0.00             0.00      336.35
                                     (140.00)           (127.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)    (267.00)
2. Goods                                0.00              0.00             1.00             0.00       1.00
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.00)           (0.00)     (1.00)
3. Services                             0.00              0.00             37.65            0.00      37.65
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)          (32.00)           (0.00)    (32.00)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00       0.00
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00       0.00
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00       0.00
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              176.35            160.00             38.65            0.00      375.00
                                     (140.00)           (127.00)         (33.00)           (0.00)    (300.00)




                                                      - 33 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                286.93              4.25              0.00             0.00             291.18
                                          (224.63)            (3.40)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (228.03)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              3.50             0.00              3.50
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.50)            (0.00)           (3.50)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             17.14             0.00             17.14
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (13.78)            (0.00)           (13.78)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               286.93              4.25             20.64             0.00             311.82
                                          (224.63)            (3.40)           (17.28)            (0.00)          (245.31)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1) Rehabilitation of           57.00        14.25                    35.13         4.25                  61.6      29.8
Transferred Highways
2) Rehabilitation of           200.00       50.00                    192.90        58.89                 96.5     117.8
Federal Highways
3) Studies and Work            14.00         3.50                     9.21         1.79                  65.8      51.1
Supervision
4) Technical Assistance        13.00         0.00                     8.07         1.58                  62.1      0.0
and Training
5) Physical and Price          16.00         7.50                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
Contingencies
Total                          300.00       75.00                    245.31        66.51                 81.8      88.7




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

1.      Summary of the Staff Appraisal Economic Analysis

The economic analysis of the Staff Appraisal Report was based on the comparison of a "do-nothing"
situation, including routine maintenance, to the evaluated optimal strategy, which consisted in investing
US$ 225 million per year over a period of 4 years on rehabilitation in addition to the expenses of the
"do-nothing", split into US$ 175 million on the remaining network (29,500 km) and US$ 50 million on the
network to be transferred (9,000 km). This strategy was expected to lead to the following results:

           (a) Net present value of US$ 3,400 million over a 10 years period, US$ 9,400 million over a 20
               years period;
           (b) Internal rate of return of 104% over a 20 years period;
           (c) Discounted Benefit/Cost ratio of 2
           (d) Improvement of the road conditions:
               - from 34 to 52% of the remaining paved network with an IRI<3
               - from 12 to 1% of the remaining paved network with an IRI>5
               - from 36 to 45% of the transferred paved network with an IRI<3
               - from 20 to 2% of the transferred paved network with an IRI>5

2.      Main facts affecting Economic analysis results

The rehabilitation and maintenance strategy could not be implemented as initially planned for the reasons
discussed in the section 4 of the ICR. Indeed, the investments in rehabilitation and maintenance on the
paved network were implemented with delays on a network nearly twice as large as initially planned. The
table below shows a comparison between the planned investments and the ones effectively implemented.

                                     Comparison of planned and implemented expenses
                                                          MUS$
                                        Planned                        Implemented
                             Invest    Rehab     Maint         Invest  Rehab        Maint
                    1997          135          25       110
                    1998          292         203         89        362        256        106
                    1999          474         392         82        231        183         48
                    2000          390         315         75        306        227         79
                    2001          383         315         68        325        246         79
                    2002           63           0         63        200        154         47
                    2003                                            189        117         72
                    2004                                            134        101         32
                    2005                                            206        151         55
              Total             1,737       1,250       487       1,954      1,436        517
                                       Average   1998-2001          306        228         78
                                                 2002-2005          182        131         51
                                                 1998-2005          244        180         65



The above table illustrates the comments issued in the ICR and reflects the fact that: (a) the project start
was delayed; (b) the implementation is split in two periods, (i) 1998-2001 when the observed investments
were reaching the levels planned during the Project preparation, during when the road conditions globally



                                                    - 35 -

improved; and (ii) 2002-2005 period when the investments fell far below the expected needs and
corresponded to a degradation of the road conditions (see graph paragraph 4.1.a.2 of the ICR).

3.      Results of a posteriori evaluation

The Project did not manage to reach the expected outcome targets: (a) the proportion of remaining paved
network in good conditions decreased from 34% to 27% instead of reaching 52% and the roads in bad
conditions maintained to approximately 13% instead of decreasing to 1%; (b) the proportion of transferred
paved network in good conditions decreased from 36% to 22% instead of reaching 45% and the roads in
bad conditions maintained to approximately 22% instead of decreasing to 2%.

The a posteriori economic evaluation was conducted taking into account the observed rehabilitation and
maintenance expenses between 1998 and 2005, reconduction of the recent trend till 2007, and investment
necessary to reach the initially expected level of road conditions. The economic simulation led to the
following results (World Bank estimate based on DNIT data):
(a)     NPV = US$ 2730 million (10 years period)
(b)     IRR = 75 % (20 years period)




                                                  - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/30/1995                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              04/03/1995                2    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
              10/08/1995                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (4)
              02/05/1996                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/08/1996                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (4)
              06/03/1996                3    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              10/02/1996                7    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (5)
              12/03/1996                6    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (4)

 Supervision

              02/11/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              05/27/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/27/1998                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               U
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/10/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              11/06/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT         S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); HIGHWAY
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/17/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT         S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); HIGHWAY
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGT SPEC.



                                              - 37 -

                                                         (2)
                05/17/2000                          3    LEAD TRANSPORT ECO. (1);                 U             S
                                                         TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);
                                                         SR. ENGINEER (1)
                12/18/2001                          2    TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT                 U             S
                                                         OFFICER (1)
                05/24/2002                          5    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);                S             S
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                         PRIVATE SECTOR SPECIAL
                                                         (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                         (1); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                                         (1)
                11/14/2002                          4    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);                S             S
                                                         TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                         OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
                04/10/2003                          3    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);                S             S
                                                         TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                06/12/2003                          1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)                 S             S
                11/07/2003                          2    TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR                  S             S
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                11/07/2003                          2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);                S             S
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
                10/01/2004                          2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);                S             S
                                                         TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1)
                05/20/2005                          2    TEAM LEADER (1);                         S             S
                                                         TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
                11/09/2005                          4    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (2);                S             S
                                                         HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                         CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
                Feb/2006                            3     TEAM LEADER (1);                        S             S
                                                          TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                                                          (2)

After the last to missions the likelihood of fully achieving the development objectives was rated as moderately
satisfactory (MS). However, since the ICR template only allows choosing between satisfactory and unsatisfactory, a
satisfactory (S) rating was selected here.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        110.2                            176.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              81.6                            129.4
  Supervision                                       263.9                            540.5
  ICR                                                  8.2                            27.2
  Total                                             463.9                              874




                                                         - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents used for the preparation of this ICR are on file:

Project Documents:
l Staff Appraisal Report
l Legal Agreements
l Project Progress Reports
l Auditing Reports
l PSR and ISR
l Aide-Memoires


Other Background Information:
l Information on http://www.dnit.gov.br/
l Brazil's 1996-1999 development program (Brazil em Ação)
l 1997 Study on national corridors for integration and development (estudo dos Eixos Nacionais de
   Integração e Desenvolvimento) BNDES
l Annually rolling three-years federal expenditures plan (plano plurianual), planning ministry
l Plano Nacional de Viação, PL 1.176/95
l Rio Grande do Sul State Highway Management Project (Loan 4165-BR)
l Road Transport Project (P092990) under preparation
l Study on infrastructures in Brazil relatively to East Asia, Calderon and Serven 2004




                                                   - 41 -

- 42 -

