Report No. PIC959
Project Name              Romania-General Cadastre and Land (@)
Registration Project
Region                    Europe and Central Asia
Sector                    Natural Resources Management/Urban Housing
Project ID                ROPA34213
Implementing Agency       Government of Romania
Contact: General Director
Ministry of Finance
General Directorate for International
Financial Relations
Tel: 040-1-631-2039
Fax: 040-1-312-6792
Date Updated              January, 1997
Projected Board Date      December, 1997
1.   BACKGROUND.  One of the early and most radical reforms of the new
government after December 1989 was the restitution of private rights to
land. The Government's current land reform program is focussed on
privatization. By the end of 1996, all the new owners had received
certificates confirming the extent, but not the location, of their
holdings; over 60% had received land titles defining the location of
their land by reference to contiguous neighbors. Recent sample data
suggest that, following the land restitution, about half of the rural
households operate farms averaging 1-3 ha, each of which is subdivided
into 3-5 parcels. Some 20 million parcels of poorly-identified arable
land may now exist in Romania.
2.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES.        The proposed World Bank project would
assist Romania in establishing a general cadastre (focusing on property
rights) in the urban and rural areas and a nation-wide uniform land
registration system. The fundamental objective is to provide the basis
to record and protect land ownership rights and activate the land market
in the country. This would: (a) speed the privatization of state
enterprises; (b) promote private investment in agriculture, housing and
industry; (c) facilitate the establishment of efficient production
units in agriculture; and (d) lay the basis for a fiscal cadastre
which will help in the establishment of an equitable land tax system in
both urban and rural areas. Implementation of the program in the entire
country would require fifteen or more years. The proposed project would
support a six-year time-slice of the program and involves a Bank
contribution of about $40 million. It would be the Bank's first major
institutional development project in the sector.
3.   PROJECT DESCRIPTION.   The project, subject to discussions with the
Government, would be implemented over six or so years beginning in 1998
or later, and could include the following major components:
(i) Institutional Strengthening: This component would provide
support for the establishment of the new ONGCC ( National
Office for Geodesy, Cadastre, and Cartography), the



organization to be established under the proposed cadastre
law, and a selected 19 local, high-priority, cadastre offices
at judet level (OGCJ), including the cadastre office in
Bucharest. Support would entail financial assistance for the
construction of new office buildings, furniture, office and
computer equipment, vehicles, training and technical
assistance. To assure an early project start, training of
staff will be the first step in the institutional
strengthening component. Training and TA to help develop land
and property valuation expertise in the country will also be
supported.
(ii) Cadastre: The cadastre component would help establish a
general cadastre in Romania by providing equipment and vehicles
required for speedier and efficient surveying and mapping by the
OGCJs as well as the Institute for Geodesy, Photogrammetry,
Cartography and Land Management (IGFCOT). Provision would be made
to encourage extensive local private sector participation in
surveying, mapping and data collection.
(iii) Land Registration: This component would be the first step in
establishing a nationwide new land registration system -- land book
system -- and contribute to accelerated registration of the titles
in the 77 local courts situated in the 19 judets. Support would
involve investments in buildings, vehicles, furniture, office and
computer equipment and software. Technical assistance and training
of staff would also be included.
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. There may be two project executing
agencies: (a) National Office for Geodesy, Mapping and Cadastre (ONGCC),
responsible for the institutional support and the general cadastre
component, and (b) Ministry of Justice (MOJ) for the land registration
component. The National Cadastre office (ONGCC) has been established
as an independent government agency and its organizational and
management arrangements have not yet been clarified.
5.   PROJECT COST. Total project cost is roughly estimated at US$ 50
million, subject to a thorough review of project scope and
attainability.
6.   ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS.     The project is classified as Category C.
It will have a positive effect on the environment by providing reliable
and current land information, which will assist in the preparation and
enforcement of environmental protection programs and identify polluters.
Private land ownership, which the project would support, is expected to
foster prudent use of land and natural resources.
Contact Point:       Kundhavi Kadiresan, Task Manager, EC1AE
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 473-4388
Fax No. (202) 477-1440
- 2-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending Feb. 28, 1997
-3 -



