Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4258 RO
Loan Agreement
(General Cadastre and Land Registration Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated January 23, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4258 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 23, 1998, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
Page  2
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Cadastre Law” means the Borrower’s Law on General Cadastre and  Real 
Estate Publicity, No. 7, dated March 13, 1996;
(b)
“Decision No. 1038” means the Government Decision No. 1038, dated October 
28, 1996, which established ONCGC;
(c)
“MoJ” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice, and includes any 
successor thereto;
(d)
“ONCGC” means the Borrower’s National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and 
Cartography, and includes any successor thereto; 
(e)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, established within the MoJ; 
(f)
“Special Account A” and “Special Account B” mean the accounts referred to 
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and Special Account A and Special Account B are 
collectively referred to as “Special Accounts”; and
(g)
“technical services” means services for geodetic control, aerial 
photography, mapping (including digital mapping systems), land registration and 
cadastral information systems, general cadastre database, urban and rural cadastral 
surveys, and data entry.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-five million five hundred thousand Dollars ($25,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars two special deposit accounts in a commercial bank, satisfactory to the Bank, 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Page  3
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and, 
after the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding, the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  4
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out (through the MoJ and ONCGC) the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate legal, cadastral, administrative, financial, economic, 
engineering and managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Accounts 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during  such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
the Cadastre Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out, or achieve the objectives of, the Project; and
(b) 
Decision No. 1038 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to 
carry out, or achieve the objectives of, the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Page  6
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mircea Geoana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Suman Mehra
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category 
   Dollars)
to be Financed 
(1)
Works
50% 
(a)
Under Part A of 
the Project  
35,000
(b)
Under Part B of 
the Project
      760,000
(2) 
Goods
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 70% 
of 
local expenditures 
for other items 
procured locally 
(a)
Under Part A of 
the Project
      550,000
(b)
Under Part B of 
the Project
      850,000
(c)
Under Part C (i)
of the Project
40,000
(3) Technical 
Services
80%
(a)
Under Part A of 
the Project
   13,900,000
(b)
Under Part B of 
Page  7
the Project
    3,600,000
(c)
Under Part C 
(ii) of the Project
90,000
(d)
Under Part C (iii)
of the Project
90,000
(4)
Consultants’ Services 
100%
and Training
(i) Consultants’ Services 
(a)
Under Part C 
(ii) of   1,050,000
the Project
(b)
Under Part C
(iii) of  1,050,000
                    the Project
(ii) Training
(a)
Under Part A
of the       
Project
 95,000
(b)
Under Part B
of the 
Project
375,000
(5)
Incremental Operating
Costs Under Part C 
(i) of the Project
 40,000
100%
(6)
Unallocated
(a)
Under Part A 
of the Project    2,300,000
(b)
Under Part B 
of the Project
675,000
TOTAL
    25,500,000
    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means salaries of PCU staff other 
than civil servants’ salaries and the costs of office and other materials and supplies 
utilized in the carrying out of Part C of the Project by the PCU.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payment made for expenditures under categories (1)(b), (2)(b), 
(3)(b) and (d), 4(i)(b) and 4(ii)(b), except after an implementing regulation for the 
land registration system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been issued.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
Page  8
less than $250,000 equivalent each; (b)  technical services under contracts costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent each; (c) all works; and (d) services and training under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 each for the employment of consulting firms and 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 each for the employment of individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project (known, in the Borrower’s territory, as “General 
Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity Project”) are to develop and implement the 
Borrower’s general cadastre and land registration systems, so as to provide for secure 
real estate ownership rights and simple, safe and cost-effective procedures for real 
estate transactions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Development and Implementation of General Cadastre System
Development and implementation of the general cadastre system in several 
administrative districts, by means of: (i) the provision of technical services; (ii) 
system design and installation of a cadastre information system to manage the general 
cadastre database; (iii) renovation and expansion of local cadastre offices; (iv) the 
provision of vehicles, furniture and office equipment for ONCGC and local cadastre 
offices; and (v) training to strengthen ONCGC and local cadastre offices.
Part B:
Development and Implementation of Land Registration System
Development of a land registration system, including support for the systematic 
registration (namely registration of all immovable property based on complete general 
cadastre within designated areas) or sporadic registration (namely provisional 
registration of individual items of immovable property at the request of the owner or 
other interested party within areas where land book offices are operational but 
general cadastre has not yet been completed) at the land book offices in several 
administrative districts, by means of: (i) the provision of technical services; (ii) 
system design and installation of a computerized land book system; (iii) renovation 
and expansion of land book offices; (iv) the provision of vehicles, furniture and 
office equipment for land book offices; and (v) training to the benefit of land book 
judges, office staff and notaries.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening
Provision of consultants’ services to assist the Borrower in strengthening the 
Project implementation capacity of:  (i) the PCU; (ii) ONCGC; and (iii) the MoJ.   
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal Date Payment Due
       (expressed in Dollars)*
May 15, 2003
535,000 
November 15, 2003
550,000 
May 15, 2004
565,000 
November 15, 2004
585,000 
May 15, 2005
600,000 
November 15, 2005
620,000 
May 15, 2006
640,000 
Page  9
November 15, 2006
655,000 
May 15, 2007
675,000 
November 15, 2007
700,000 
May 15, 2008
720,000 
November 15, 2008
740,000 
May 15, 2009
765,000 
November 15, 2009
785,000 
May 15, 2010
810,000 
November 15, 2010
835,000 
May 15, 2011
860,000 
November 15, 2011
885,000 
May 15, 2012
915,000 
November 15, 2012
940,000 
May 15, 2013
970,000 
November 15, 2013
     1,000,000 
May 15, 2014
     1,030,000 
November 15, 2014
     1,060,000    
May 15, 2015
     1,090,000 
November 15, 2015
     1,125,000 
May 15, 2016
     1,160,000 
November 15, 2016
     1,195,000 
May 15, 2017
     1,230,000 
November 15, 2017
     1,260,000
TOTAL
                 25,500,000
          ==========
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely that 
the provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
High precision mapping and survey equipment, which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Technical services estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, 
Page  10
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,100,000 equivalent, and furniture 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods (other than furniture) estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods (other than furniture) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, and technical 
services estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I, Part B, and Section I, Part C.1, of this Schedule; (ii) contracts for goods 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each; (iii) contracts for technical 
services estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each; and (iv) the first two 
contracts relating, respectively, to Parts A and C of the Project and Part B of the 
Project, awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part C.2 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Page  11
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program 
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
1.
Responsibility for the carrying out of the Project shall be assigned as follows:
(a)
responsibility for carrying out Part A of the Project shall be assigned 
to ONCGC and, for this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that, throughout the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, ONCGC shall maintain a general cadastre 
implementation group, and local offices, with a sufficient number of qualified staff, 
adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
responsibility for carrying out Part B of the Project shall be assigned 
to the MoJ and, for this purpose, the Borrower shall ensure that, throughout the 
implementation of Part B of the Project, the MoJ shall maintain a land book 
Page  12
implementation group, and local land book offices, with a sufficient number of 
qualified staff (including a cadastral plan custodian in every local land book 
office), adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
responsibility for carrying out Part C of the Project, and overall 
responsibility for coordination in the carrying out of the Project, shall be assigned 
to the PCU, under the supervision of a steering committee, and, for this purpose, the 
Borrower shall ensure that, throughout the implementation of the Project, the PCU and 
said steering committee shall be maintained with a sufficient number of qualified 
staff, adequate resources and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1999, submit to the Bank, for its review, a draft study 
with recommendations on the amount of fees to be charged for registration and other 
cadastral services, and on the measures to be taken, to achieve cost recovery;
(b)
immediately thereafter, finalize said study and the recommendations 
thereof, taking into consideration the Bank’s comments thereon; and
(c)
carry out the recommendations of said study in accordance with their 
terms. 
3.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that any and all 
security clearances, approvals, licenses, permits and permissions will be provided to 
allow for: (i) the conduct of aircraft flights, by private firms or individuals, 
national or foreign, above its territory within its airspace as may be necessary, from 
time to time, to perform any aerial photography under the Project; and (ii) the 
surveying, by private surveyors, of the co-ordinates, description of and access to 
geodetic control points, and copies of existing maps.
4.
The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that ONCGC will have 
access to the survey data, available at the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture or at 
any other ministry, department or agency, required for the carrying out of its 
responsibilities under Part A of the Project.
5.
By September 30, 1998, the Borrower (through ONCGC) shall issue an order to the 
local offices of ONCGC relating to public access to information upon payment of 
pre-determined fees.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by September 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, on the basis of the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) 
Page  13
and (c), and (4)(i)(a) and (4)(ii)(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of Special Account A and Categories (1)(b), 
(2)(b) and (c), (3)(b) and (d), (4)(i)(b) and (4)(ii)(b), and (5) set forth in said 
table in respect of Special Account B;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $700,000 in 
respect of Special Account A and an amount equal to $300,000 in respect of Special 
Account B, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the respective 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equal to $350,000 in respect of Special Account A and an amount equal to 
$150,000  in respect to Special Account B, until (i) in respect of Special Account A, 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories 
(1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a) and (c), and (4)(i)(a) and (4)(ii)(a) plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions for Parts A and C(ii) of the Project shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000, and (ii) in respect of Special Account B, the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account allocated to Categories (1)(b), 
(2)(b) and (c), (3)(b) and (d), (4)(i)(b) and (4)(ii)(b), and (5) plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Parts B and C(i) and (iii) of the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits 
into 
the respective Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall 
specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the respective 
Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the respective Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
Page  14
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
(i)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for Special Account A, minus the 
total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to 
Parts A and C(ii) of the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation for Special Account 
A. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories for Parts A and C(ii) of the Project 
shall follow 
such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining 
on deposit 
in Special Account A as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures; or
(ii)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for Special Account B, minus the 
total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to 
Parts B and C(i) and (iii) of 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation for Special 
Account B.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts B and C(i) and (iii) of the 
Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the respective 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
Page  15
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
