Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo. 17058-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 25.5 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
GENERAL CADASTRE AND LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
November 10, 1997
Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit
Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 30, 1997 )
Currency Unit = Lei (ROL)
US$ 1   7100 Lei
ROMANIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL                Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loan
Cadastre Law        Lege privind cadastrul general sipublicitatea imobiliara
Law on General Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity
CAP                 Cooperative of Agricultural Producers
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA                Canadian International Development Agency
Comuna              Administrative district, second tier of local government in rural areas
DGFFCG              Directia Generala de Fond Funciar, Cadastru si Geodezie
Directorate General for Land Fund, Cadastre, and Geodesy (within
MAA)
DO                  Development Objective
DTM                 Directia Topografica Militara  Department of Military Topography
DUAT                Department of Urban and Regional Planning (within MLPAT)
EU-PHARE            European Union Development Agency
FESAL               Financial and Enterprise Structural Adjustment Loan
FGCEI               Faculty of Geodesy, Civil Engineering Institute, University of Bucharest
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
FY                  Fiscal Year
GCIG                General Cadastre Implementation Group
GIS                 Geographic Information System
GPS                 Global Positioning System. Satellite navigation system for geodetic
control
Ha                  Hectare
IBRD                The World Bank. International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Agency
IGFCOT              Institutul pentru Geodezie, Fotogrammetrie, Cartografie si Organizarea
Teritoriului
Institute for Geodesy, Photogrammetry, Cartography and Land
Management
IP                  Implementation Objective
Judet               41 departments or counties, first tier of local government
Vice President    Johannes F. Linn
Country Director    Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Director   Kevin M. Cleaver
Team Leader      Kundhavi Kadiresan



Land Book           Carte finciara
LBIG                Land Book Implementation Group
LBO                 Land Book Office(s) Biroul(ui) de cartefunciara
LIB                 Limited International Bidding
MAA                 Ministerul Agriculturii si Alimentatiei
Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MAPPM               Ministerul Apelor, Padurilor si Protectiei Mediului
Ministry of Water Resources, Forestry and Environmental Protection
M & E               Monitoring and Evaluation
MF                  Ministerul de Finante     Ministry of Finance
General Directorate for International Financial Relations
MJ                  Ministerul de Justitiei   Ministry of Justice
MLPAT               Ministerul Lucrarilor Publice si Amenajaril Teritoriului
Ministry of Public Works and Regional Planning
N/A                 Not Applicable
NBF                 Non-Bank-Financed
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NPV                 Net Present Value
NS                  National Shopping
OCOT                Oficiul de Cadastru si Organizarea Teritoriului
Existing local cadastre offices in each judet subordinated to MAA
OJCGC               Oficii Judetean de Cadastru Geodezie si Cartografie
New local cadastre offices in eachjudet to be subordinated to ONCGC
ONCGC               Oficiul National de Cadastru Geodezie si Cartografie
National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy, and Cartography
PC                  Personal Computer
PCD                 Project Concept Document
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit of Ministry of Justice and ONCGC
PHRD                Policy and Human Resources Development
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PSC                 Project Steering Committee
PY                  Project Year
QCBS                Quality and Cost Based Selection
RFP                 Request For Proposals
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
TA                  Technical Assistance
Titlu (plural titluri)   Titlu de proprietate. Certificate issued to confirm transfer of land into
private ownership under Law No. 18 of 1991
USAID               United States Agency for International Development



I



ROMANIA
GENERAL CADASTRE AND LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ................................................................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ...............................................................2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy  (CAS) goal supported by the project ..............................................2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ...............................................................2
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ............................................................... 4
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY ................................................................5
1. Project components ..............................................................5
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ..................................                                    ............................5
3. Benefits and Target Population .............................................................6
4. Institutional and lmplementation Arrangements .............................................................6
D: PROJECT RATIONALE ...........................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .....................                                        ........................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ...........................                                          ...................8
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ..............................................................9
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ..............................................................9
5.  Value-added of Bank Support in this Project ..............................................................9
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...............................................................                                                                              10
1. Economic .............................................................                                                                                           10
2. Financial .............................................................                                                                                          10
3. Technical .............................................................                                                                                          11
4. Institutional .............................................................. l
5. Social . ............................................................ 11
6. Environmental Assessment .............................................................                                                                           12
7. Participatory approach .............................................................                                                                             12
F:  SUSTAINABILITY  AND RISKS ............................................................... 12
1. Sustainability .............................................................. 12
2. Critical Risks .............................................................                                                                                      13
3. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................................                                                                     14
G: MAiN LOAN CONDITIONS ...............................................................                                                                                  14
Conditions of Disbursement ............................................................. 14
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................................                                                                          15
I.  COMPLiANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................................................ 1 5



CONTENTS (cont'd)
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary ..........................................    16
Annex 2:                Detailed Project Description .........................................                                           19
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .........................................                                                                21
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .........................................                                                         22
Projected Incremental Revenues
Annex 5: Financial Summary .........................................                                                                      24
Fiscal Impact .........................................                                                                      24
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .........................................                                            25
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule ......................................... 31
Annex 8:  Documents in the Project File ......................................... 32
Annex 9:  Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania .........................................                                           33
Annex 10: Romania at a Glance .........................................                                                                   34
MAP   IBRD 29011



ROMANIA
GENERAL CADASTRE AND LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
Country Department
Date: 11/10/97                                      Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Kundhavi Kadiresan
Country Manager/Director: Kenneth G. Lay            Sector Manager/Director: Kevin Cleaver
Project ID: RO-PA-34123  Sector: General            Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:  [ ] Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data              [X] Loan        [] Credit      [  Guarantee       [  Other
[Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$25.5 million
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency      [x] Single currency, US dollar
Grace period (years):   5              []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed           [x]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      20
Commitment fee:         0.75%
Service charge:         none
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                                   Local              Foreign            Total
Govermnent                                                11.8                 0.0             11.8
IBRD                                                       8.6                16.9             25.5
Total       20.4                 16.9             37.3
Borrower:    Romania
Guarantor:    N/A
Responsible agency(ies): National Office of Cadastre, Geodesy, and Cartography (ONCGC); Ministry of Justice
(MoJ)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1998/99    1999/00    2000/01    2001/02 2002/03
Annual   1.5        3.0         7.0        8.5      5.5
Cumulative   1.5        4.5        11.5       20.0   25.5
Project implementation period: 1998 to 2003           Expected effectiveness date: May 25, 1998
Expected closing date:     December 31, 2003
OSD PAD Form: November 10, 1997



Page 2
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project aims to:
(a)    Establish an efficient system for securing land titles of real estate owners which can be expanded
nationwide;
(b)    Create a general cadastre system which provides clear and current definition of real estate
parcels which form the basis for real estate registration; and
(c)    Set up a simple, safe and cost effective procedure for land transactions.
As such, the project is a fundamental public infrastructure necessary for a market based economy.
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16559 RO   Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997
The Bank's strategy entails support for sectors in which there is progress in reform. With this
strategy, the Bank seeks to assist Romania to improve substantially the macroeconomic framework,
support private sector development, and create a better policy environment. In agriculture, key elements
of the strategy are to support completion of land reform and privatization of productive assets.
Development of land markets is considered a priority requiring revision of existing laws that limit land
market development and establishment of secure land registration and titling mechanisms.
Revisions of aspects of the land laws that limit land market development are being promoted by
the Bank's recent ASAL. The proposed project supports the CAS objective by helping to establish an
efficient system for securing land titles and a cost-effective mechanism for land transactions. The
project would be the Bank's first institutional development effort in this area.
The proposed project has a strong focus in support of Romania's ongoing privatization efforts,
especially of real estate and state enterprises. By facilitating land transactions, the project will help
consolidate economically non-viable agriculture farm units and facilitate the sustainable, efficient use of
land, other natural resources and infrastructure. The project would also support key Bank objectives of
encouraging private sector development by providing opportunities for local private companies in
mapping, surveying and data entry.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
One of the early and most significant reforms of the government that came to power in
December 1989 was the restitution of private rights to land and privatization of residential apartments
and houses. The Land Fund Law No. 18 of February 1991 reinstated land and property rights in areas
which had been collectivized and made provision for a Law on General Cadastre and Real Estate
Publicity as the enabling mechanism to provide a basis for issuing legal titles to the reinstated property
owners. By July 1997, almost 70% of the 4.3 million applicants who had applied under Law 18 for
restitution of land and property in the former collective farms had been issued with titluri de proprietate,
the certificates that confirm the transfer of land into private ownership. Nearly all the occupiers of



Page 3
residential apartments have taken the opportunity to acquire their ownership titles. Privatization of state
enterprises also included the transfer of the associated land and property into private ownership.
Following the land restitution, about half of the rural households operate farms averaging 1-3 ha,
each of which is subdivided into 3-5 parcels preventing optimal use of land. Limited progress has been
made toward land consolidation, except through legal or informal associations, hindering transition in the
agriculture sector. Land transactions in the rural extravilan areas were restricted -- pending earlier plans
to have a Government agency established to regulate land sales -- leading to the development of an
informal land market in these areas.. This is expected to change with the revision in the Land Law. The
mechanism for selling or leasing derelict land in urban areas which belongs to state enterprises or
municipalities needs to be strengthened-to encourage more intensive use of land and property.
Two systems of land registration operate in Romania -- a Civil Code system of inscription and
transcription which is a deeds registration system, and the land book or Grund Buch system, which is a
title registration system. Both the systems fell into disuse during the communist regime as most of the
land was collectivized and no records of parcels and of ownership were maintained. Although both the
systems are being revived, lack of uniformity between the systems, and inadequate and outdated
cadastral maps have constrained property registration. The new Law No. 7 of 1996 for General Cadastre
and Real Estate Publicity recognizes the advantages of the land book system, which registers properties
rather than individual transactions, and provides the legal framework to establish a uniform system to be
introduced progressively throughout the country.
Aside from lack of legal sanction for land transactions, the main obstruction to the development
of a systematic cadastre and land registration system in the country has been the lack of coordination
among government agencies. The administration of urban and rural land was divided among several
ministries and the linkages between land and property ownership, and land use and the construction of
buildings and other -permanent structures on the land, are only now being re-established. A new agency,
the National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography (ONCGC), was established in November
1996 through a Governmental Decree with responsibility for the general cadastre in both urban and rural
areas. The Ministry of Justice is taking a pro-active role in reestablishing the Land Book registration
system.
Real estate markets seem to be insecure. It is not easy for potential buyers to find the owner of a
parcel of property that they are interested in buying, for several reasons: the existing records are
incomplete; the procedures are time consuming; and the land registration offices do not divulge
ownership information to the public without the owner's consent. Moreover, the courts are inundated
with real estate cases, which can take up to five years to resolve. A fast, secure and transparent system
of registration would protect all legal interests in lands and property, reduce the risk of fraud, create
confidence among owners to improve their property, and provide access to credit at more reasonable
interest rates.
The legal framework is now in place and there is clear division of responsibility between the
National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography and the Ministry of Justice. Under the
circumstances, a key next step is the establishment of a general cadastre (focusing on the property
ownership) in both urban and rural areas and a nationwide uniform land book registration system which
would issue land titles to land owners. Government is keen to introduce the uniform parcel-based land
registration system in as many parts of the country as possible.



Page 4
3. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The project would address issues related to:  (a) providing security for private property
ownership rights; (b) establishing a simple institutional set up for safe and cost effective land
transactions; and (c) allowing open access to real estate ownership information that would encourage a
transparent land market. It would support Government's agenda for private sector development by
providing true private ownership of the most fundamental and widespread asset -- land -- and by
permitting property to be used as collateral for further investment. By facilitating land consolidation it
will also lead to more productive land use.
The project would provide the basis to record and protect property rights by setting up a legally
backed land book ;egistration system. Three approaches would be adopted to reduce the time required to
introduce the land registration system nationwide. The method of registration based on systematic
general cadastre, as proposed in Law 7 of 1996, would take many years to implement nationwide and
thus not satisfy the immediate needs of property owners and financial institutions to buy, sell, lease and
mortgage real estate. Therefore, systematic cadastre would be introduced in selected judets and extended
year by year. It has the advantages of lower unit costs per property registered and provides a complete
and current record of land and property ownership and land charges such as mortgages. The second
approach caters to the immediate needs of reinstated landowners in former collectivized areas to register
their property and any subsequent transactions by entering their titluri de proprietate into databases
which would be scrutinized prior to registration. This method can be extended more rapidly and at low
cost. Sporadic registration on demand would be introduced wherever Land Book Offices have been
established. This method would be used to extend the registration service much more rapidly across the
country but has the disadvantage that, where new surveys of property boundaries are required, the unit
cost per property may be as much as five times more expensive than systematic cadastre. The cost-
effectiveness and public acceptance of each method would be monitored and the proportions of each
adjusted accordingly.
Under Law 18 of 1991, agricultural land, which had been collectivized in uneconomically large
units, has been redistributed to the previous owners and their heirs into uneconomically small and
fragmented parcels. About one third of the new landowners are reported to be living in towns and to
have no interest in farming themselves. The project relies upon the operation of the market to
consolidate land into economic units, to move underutilized assets into more intensive use, and to
provide an exit route for owners who want to sell or lease, or who prove to be uncompetitive as farmers
or businessmen. The Government has abandoned as unworkable the alternative of setting up a Rural
Development Agency to regulate the market for agricultural land and offer preemption rights to the state.
Aside from the above strategic choices of relying on the market mechanism to determine holding
sizes, and among methods of land registration to be employed, the principal operational choice for this
project was between public and private sector execution of mapping, cadastral survey and other related
work. Because of the difficulties in recruiting staff on government salaries and the consequent lack of
incentives, the project would depend heavily on the private sector for mapping and data entry work,
licensed surveyors to execute cadastral surveys and private notaries for conveyancing. The private sector
is expected to be more responsive to changing requirements and volumes of demand. This would release
the full resources of ONCGC and MoJ to concentrate on strategic issues, quality control, standards,
supervision, and record maintenance.



Page 5
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Cost incl.   % of       Bank      % of Bank
Component                 Category    Contingencies   Total    Financing    Financing
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____  _(US$M)      (US$M)      _
A. Development of Cadastre          PhysicaV          22.5        60.3       16.9         75.1
Support aerial photography, base map    Institutional
development, cadastral surveys and  Building
Land Information System; strengthen
National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy
and Cartography (ONCGC) and the
local cadastre offices (OJCGCs);
support the Cadastre Implementation
Group that would manage the cadastre
component of the project                         _
B. Establishment of Land Book       Physical/         12.1        32.5        6.3         52.1
System                          Institutional
Operationalize 76 land book offices in   building
18 judets in suitably equipped offices
with an automated land book system;
train staff in the new land book system;
provide institutional support for the
local land book offices and the Land
Book ITnplementation Group in MoJ to
execute the land book component.    _
C. Institutional Strengthening      Institutional      2.7         7.2        2.3         85.2
Support for the Project Coordination  Building/
Unit (PCU); TA to guide the         Project
implementation trials and to enhance the  Management
planning and management capacity of
the project agencies; Inforrnation
System Design and Development for the
cadastre and land book; and assistance
to carry out cost recovery studies.
Total                                  37.3        100.0      25.5         68.4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would support some of the policy reform measures that are now being implemented
by the Government to unleash the potential of the private sector in the country. One of the areas of focus
of the FESAL is to promote private entrepreneurship and efficiency by simplifying main stream methods
of privatization. Similarly, the Bank's ASAL is geared to reforming the land market through laws
clarifying and better regulating the land market transactions. It also is aimed at ending directed credit,
privatizing state owned agricultural enterprises and focusing Government's role towards support of
private farming. Given the importance of real estate's share of a country's tangible capital, averaging



Page 6
about 60-70%, establishing a secure, efficient and cost effective land registration system should have a
major impact on these reforms taking place in the various sectors.
The project per se promoted institutional changes in the government administration of real estate
ownership information which was spread over several agencies/ministries. To simplify the institutional
set up, a single agency independent of existing ministries to manage the cadastre for both urban and rural
areas, was strongly favored. This was supported by Law 7 of 1996, followed by Government action to
establish the ONCGC to be primarily responsible for the general cadastre and Ministry of Justice for land
registration. The project would promote and encourage the participation of the private sector in
executing a large part of the routine operations with project agencies performing mainly a supervisory
and quality control role.
3. Benefits and Target Population:
The project is estimated to cover about 3 million hectares of rural land and 75,000 ha of urban
land. The project would offer major benefits in -two ways. First, it would promote the protection of
recently restored land rights and establishment of an accessible and transparent land registration system,
both of which are necessary conditions for land market development. Secure land rights are fundamental
to the economic transition and would provide economic benefits over the medium to long term. Second,
the project would encourage private sector investment and provide easier access to credit using land and
property as collateral. A large proportion of the population have received assets in the form of small
land parcels or apartments. The ability to dispose of assets or derive income from them will be
particularly beneficial to pensioners and city dwellers with agricultural parcels. Furthermore, the project
will help in the protection of the environment through improved data on current land use. Secure
property rights, which the project would support, are expected to foster prudent use of land and natural
resources. The project would also support effective urban and rural planning, utilities, communications
and transportation providers, which require information on land use and ownership.
The target population comprises current and future real estate owners, private investors in
agriculture, housing and industry, commercial banks and other users of land ownership information.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Implementation period: Five years (FY 1998 - 2003)
Executing agencies: National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography (ONCGC) and Ministry of
Justice (MoJ)
Project coordination: Project coordination between the executing agencies would be assured
through a small "Project Coordination Unit" (PCU) within the Ministry of Justice. The day-to-day
operation of the cadastre and land registration components would be undertaken by a "General Cadastre
Implementation Group" (GCIG) in ONCGC and a "Land Book Implementation Group" (LBIG) within
the Ministry of Justice. A Project Steering Committee (PSC), comprised of representatives from
Ministry of Finance, ONCGC and MoJ will provide overall policy and operational guidance for the
project.
The PCU would consist of a Project Director, Operations officer, accountant and a Bilingual
secretary on a full time basis. A member from the Cadastre Implementation Group and the Land Book
Implementation Group will represent their respective groups in the PCU to ensure coordination and
cooperation between these two implementing agencies. The PCU would be responsible for overall
project coordination and implementation of the institutional strengthening component. Procurement of



Page 7
TA and services common to both cadastre and land book components would be done by the PCU.
Procurement related only to cadastre or the land book component would be done by their respective
Implementation Groups. The Project Coordination Unit would coordinate the annual work plans
prepared by the Implementation Groups, define the actions needed to ensure timely project
implementation and what cooperation or participation may be needed among participating departments to
ensure effective implementation. It would also help coordinate the annual budgets prepared by the GCIG
and the LBIG. The PCU would also handle all correspondence and liaison with the Bank, prepare status
reports for the Project Steering Committee (PSC), organize meetings, prepare semi-annual progress
reports, ensure that procurement is initiated and withdrawal applications are completed expeditiously,
and coordinate and liaise with all local offices. The PCU would report directly to the Steering
Committee and serve as its secretariat.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: The PCU, GCIG and the LBIG
would maintain separate accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards covering all
transactions related to project activities and would prepare annual statements of receipts and
expenditures based on these accounts. The PCU will be responsible for overall project accounts and will
prepare the financial statements for the project as a whole. The GCIG, LBIG and the PCU will be staffed
by suitably qualified accountants to carry out the financial and accounting practices properly. As a
condition of negotiations, the implementing agencies provided to the Bank their existing financial
management, internal controls and accounting system to ensure they are fully capable of managing the
project. A final assessment of the system would be made by the Bank during project launch workshop.
The results and recommendations of this assessment would be implemented within four months of
project start. Project financial statements would be prepared in accordance with Bank guidelines and
models by the PCU. Supporting documentation would be made available to Bank missions and
independent auditors as required. Project accounts and the Special Account would be audited in
accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and World Bank's guidelines. Audit
reports would be provided to the Bank within six months after close of the Government's fiscal year, i.e.
by June 30 of each year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Project monitoring and evaluation would be the
responsibility of the PCU based on data gathered by the GCIG and the LBIG from their respective local
level offices. A foreign M&E expert would assist the PCU during PY 1 to design a simple management
information system for M&E, reporting formats for each component, including targeted annual
performance objectives and monitoring indicators using Annex 1 details as the basis. Project progress
would also be monitored through Bank supervision missions and semi-annual reports submitted for Bank
review. A mid-term review would be conducted by the Bank and the Government where overall
progress will be assessed. The project design would be adjusted if needed. An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared within six months after the loan closing.
D: PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative project designs were considered, including a project focusing exclusively on rural
land and a project using the prevailing institutional framework. Since the most critical land tenure issues
are expected to arise along the border between urban and rural land, a cadastre covering both the areas
was considered to be essential. A uniform cadastre for the urban and rural areas would also help put in
place a consistent and common procedure and make maximum use of the institution and capacity



Page 8
building investments that will be part of the project. Further, with urban areas having greater scope and
potential for property taxes, adequate coverage of priority urban areas is considered essential.
Consideration was given to working within the existing institutional set up, involving the
existing multi-agency arrangement, to implement cadastre and land registry in Romania. It was clear
that this would pernanently complicate and fragment this critical activity in the country. Therefore, it
was agreed to adopt a simpler institutional set up for the project with two executing agencies (ONCGC
and MoJ) representing the interests of all ministries.
On technical grounds, a project focusing exclusively on property registration under the Ministry
of Justice was rejected as this approach would take more than a century to implement throughout the
country. A project focusing on just systematic registration of all property rights was rejected as this
would be extremely expensive and would not cater to the current need for a system that would enable
transactions to occur quickly and cheaply. A no-project scenario would perpetuate the existing two
different registry system involving several agencies, with no clear responsibility and accountability.
There is an urgent need to harmonize the existing property registries so that the potential economic
benefits of a well functioning land administration system can be achieved.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
Sector issue                    Project         Latest Supervision (Fonn 590) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
____________________    Progress (IP)     Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Revise aspects of the land laws that impede
land market development               ASAL (July 1997)            NA                NA
Other development agencies
Land Reform (supporting privatization of   EU-PHARE Land
former collective farms under Law 18)  Reform project (1992-
present)
Land titling pilot in two judets to test the    EU-PHARE Pilots
technology and organizational procedures   (1995-96)
for land registration
Improving the land valuation expertise in   EU-PHARE (1997-98)
Romania
Densification of the Geodetic Network  USAID - (1994-96)
using GPS receivers to strengthen geodetic
control and facilitate use of GPS
technology
Drafting Regulations for Land Registration  Canadian International
Development Agency
(1996-97)
Defining a strategy for the ONCGC     Canadian International
Development Agency
(1996-97)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory).



Page 9
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
Previous Bank involvement in land reform and management in Romania has been limited to
consultancy studies aimed at identifying the major priorities in initiating cadastral work. Experience in
other countries suggests that effective implementation of cadastre and land registration projects depends
on a clear legal framework, a simple institutional structure, long-term Government commitment, and
open access to the resulting land information. These concerns have been taken into account in the
proposed project design. Romania now has a reliable legal framework. The cadastre law, private
notary's law, and the copyright laws, which directly impact the project, are in place. The responsibilities
of the executing agencies have been clarified by allocating the overall responsibility for the general
cadastre to ONCGC and land registration to the Ministry of Justice. The proposed project would use
modem technologies which are cost effective, efficient and easy to use. However, they would be phased
in gradually as staff skills and institutional capacity are enhanced through technical assistance and
training during the first phase of the project. Special attention will be needed to plan and sequence tasks
due to the specialized nature of the expertise and equipment required and the problems associated with
the coordination of aerial photography, map production, cadastral surveying, registration and issuance of
titles.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
The project was considered a priority by the Romanians as early as 1991. Masterplans for the
agricultural, urban and fiscal cadastres were developed with Dutch Trust Funds in the early 1990s.
Following the Agriculture Sector Strategy review in 1993, the Government and the Bank identified an
urgent need for a cadastre and land registration project covering urban and rural areas. The project was
included in the core lending progran of the Bank. Government established a high-level Inter-Ministerial
Committee to guide the Bank missions to develop the project. Although the project was ready for
appraisal in 1995, project processing was on hold pending passage of a progressive but controversial
cadastre law in Parliament. This law was passed in July 1996. A Government Decree in November 1996
clarified the responsibilities of the implementing agencies. Thereafter, a National Office for Cadastre,
Geodesy and Cartography (ONCGC) became effective in November 1996 and a President of ONCGC
appointed. A core group of staff (drawn from seven ministries) started work in January 1997. With
CIDA assistance, ONCGC has developed a national strategy for cadastre and the Ministry of Justice has
prepared the regulations for implementing the land book registration. The Government has allocated
ONCGC a budget for the first year to begin work. The guidelines for licensing of surveyors are already
in place and local cadastre offices are established in several judets.
5. Value-added of Bank Support in this Project:
As it has throughout project preparation, the Bank would play a key role in assisting the
Government's efforts to put an efficient and cost-effective general cadastre and land registration system
in place. Financial and technical assistance provided by other donors in this area in recent years, while
invaluable in starting cadastral activities, has not always been well-coordinated. Bank involvement
would provide essential foreign exchange and the necessary discipline to define a clear program, set and
monitor performance targets for quality of service and cost-effectiveness and avoid adoption of
unrealistic technical standards and dependence on over-sophisticated computer systems.



Page 10
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS
1. Economic:
The primary objective of the project is to provide secure land ownership rights and to facilitate the
operation of the land market. As such quantification of economic benefits of the project is difficult given
its overall "public good" character. The focus of the project is to put in place a public infrastructure
necessary to activate a land market and to build institutions. Economic benefits for projects of this
nature are difficult enough to assess in economies with a tradition of private land use and where
information on land values based on an open land market is available. Here such an effort would be
purely speculative. Therefore, only a financial analyses and cost recovery estimates have been prepared.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= US$$20.1 million; FRR = 17.4%
The cost of the systematic cadastre and first registration of restituted land titles is required by
Law No. 18 to be borne by the government as the final stage in restoring private ownership rights.
However, the cost of maintaining the cadastre and the titles would be partially recovered from users of
the land information. It is recognized that the sustainability of the cadastre and land book registration
depends upon achieving steadily increasing revenue from fees for the registration of subsequent
transactions and associated cadastral surveys. The project would encourage a partial recovery of costs
by: (a) charging a registration fee for the services of the land book involving creation or modification of
records; (b) fees for searches and providing copies of registers; and (c) sale of geodetic data, maps and
other land information. The Land Book Offices should eventually become self-financing from fee
revenue, and ONCGC and its local offices would set targets to recover a growing proportion of its
expenditure from sales revenue.
The FRR computed assuming conservative estimates for benefits in the modeling of costs and
returns is 17.4%. The NPV in financial terms would amount to $20.1 million.
Fiscal impact:. Incremental recurrent costs of the project that would be financed by the Government
during the project period would average about US$ one million (excluding taxes) per year. Annual
budgetary contributions to the project -- including both investment and recurrent costs -- from total
Government revenues amount to 0.01% in 1998, 0.01% in 1999, 0.02% in 2000, 0.02% in 2001 and
0.02% in 2002. These can be easily absorbed within the budget. Government financing of project
recurrent costs beyond the investment phase of the project is also not expected to be a problem as the
project is expected to generate revenues that would cover part or whole of those costs. Implementation
of action plans resulting from a major cost recovery study to be undertaken within the first two years of
the project would be covenanted in the Loan Agreement.
Although during the project period, the project is not expected to generate much revenues, in 20
years the projected annual incremental net revenues from registration fees, sale of maps, and other land
ownership related information searches is estimated at $22 million (see annex 4).  Substantial
Government savings will be achieved by significantly reducing the number of land disputes and the time
it takes for the courts to resolve them and by reducing and eliminating duplication among government
agencies in the production of base maps and cadastre maps. ONCGC will be the primary agency
responsible for archiving of existing base maps and cadastre maps and developing of the future general
cadastre maps. Copies of maps will be available for other government agencies and the public for a fee.



Page 11
3. Technical:
The project design has had two main foci: (a) set up a simple and cost effective cadastre and
land registration system, using data already available wherever possible, to meet the immediate needs;
(b) develop a general cadastre and land registration system that will cater to the long-term land
information needs of a modern market based economy. Models from developed systems were used from
Western Europe, particularly Austria and Germany. The project has provided flexibility to make use of
new technology as it develops in the area of mapping, surveying and computerization (e.g. remote
sensing by satellite imagery may replace some of the mapping from aerial photography if the technology
becomes available, as planned, next year). Also, considering the implementing capacity, a realistic plan
for transfer from paper to information technology in land registration and cadastre management and
mapping was developed. The proposed land registration system embodies both the sporadic and
systematic method of first registration, including conversion using existing information. By this method,
it is expected that a complete registration of all parcels nationwide can be achieved in a timeframe of 15-
20 years.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The ONCGC is a new agency entrusted with the task of establishing the
general cadastre. The agency is trying to recruit qualified staff. Staff turnover seems to be a major risk
given low public sector salaries relative to the private sector. The project has included TA and training
to mitigate this risk. The local private sector industry capacity in mapping, surveying and computer data
compilation work would also be fully tapped. Since the local cadastre offices are new, their tasks would
be concentrated on maintaining standards, supervising and validating work contracted out to the private
sector and maintaining the archives and distributing data to users. The Ministry of Justice, on the other
hand, is reasonably well prepared and staffed to implement the project. The project would adopt a
phased approach to project implementation considering the institutional capacity and skills of the staff.
b. Project management: Project Management would be spearheaded by experienced staff of the
General Cadastre Implementation Group and the Land Book Implementation Group, supported by a
small Project Coordination Unit.
5. Social:
Romania's constitution recognizes and guarantees the rights of women to own, transfer and
purchase land and property. There is gender neutral legislation concerning division of assets (including
land and buildings, in the event of inheritance or divorce) between men and women. According to
Article 12 (3) of Law 18, property titles are issued to all the heirs (male and female) of the original
owners, after which, the heirs divide the land among them in accordance with the regular legal
provisions concerning joint property. This legal protection granted to women provides equal access and
control to land and property in Romania.
Land registration would also have a significant positive social impact by preventing or at least
reducing the number of property disputes in the project areas. Agriculture land ownership pattern which
is now concentrated among the old and includes about 30% of owners who now live in urban areas and
have little interest in farming is bound to change once a safe and cost-effective land transaction system
emerges.



Page 12
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [l B   [xl C
The project has no major environmental issues and the overall environmental impact is expected
to be positive. Improved land registry information would help in surveying and monitoring land use by
environmental agencies. Private land ownership supported by the proposed project can be expected to
foster more prudent use of land and natural resources.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable].
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The primary beneficiaries would be the present and
future real estate owners, private investors, commercial banks, real estate agencies, municipalities,
Government ministries and agencies dealing with specialized cadastres.
b. Other key stakeholders: Academic institutions, the Ministry of Defense, local government, other
users of land information.
The project preparation team consulted extensively with representatives from local Government,
academic institutions and donor agencies in the design of the project. An Inter-Ministerial Committee
representing seven sector ministries provided significant input to the project as they are dependent on the
general cadastre to develop their specialized cadastres. Local Governments have a particular interest
because land tax is expected to be a major source of their revenue in future. The Ministry of Defense
was closely consulted to allow access to data on the geodetic points and to permit foreign companies to
fly aerial photography and produce orthophotomaps. Extensive discussions with real estate agents,
commercial bank officials and farmers have been useful in the design of the project. All the key
stakeholders would be consulted and invited to provide copies of existing land records during the project
implementation to avoid duplication of effort and ensure that the general cadastre and land registers meet
the real needs of the users.
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability:
Heavy emphasis on institutional strengthening, training and TA would help put into place a
qualified cadre of administrators and technicians to undertake and sustain the general cadastre and land
registration. To this end, TA and training to project staff would be concentrated in the early years of
project implementation.
Local operating costs are expected to be met in part by a policy of progressive cost recovery by
charging realistic fees for registering transactions and selling maps and land information to all users,
both government and private. The Ministry of Finance has agreed in principle that fees for services
rendered by OJCGCs and LBOs would be retained to recover part of the operation and maintenance
costs of these local offices. A comprehensive cost recovery study will be undertaken in the first year of
the project to: (a) review the sources of revenue generation for the cadastre and land book offices and
recommend realistic charges for services and products; and (b) develop institutional mechanisms and
legal approvals needed to permit these revenues to be retained by the OJCGCs and LBOs. This study
would be undertaken in close consultation with MoF, the project agencies and local administration. The
conclusions of the study and action plans proposed would be submitted for Bank review by end of the
year 1999, and would be noted as a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement.
The project design would ensure that the land registers and cadastral index maps are maintained
continuously by recording land transactions as they occur and the topographical maps are updated on a



Page 13
periodic basis. Disincentives to land registration such as high fees and taxes on registration would be
discouraged and local publicity campaigns fmanced by project to explain the benefits of registration to
the users would be organized.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                 Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
Project Output to Development Objectives
Public support to register land          Light/    Public campaign is planned to create greater
moderate   awareness on the benefits of land registration among
property owners, financial institutions and other
users of general cadastre and real estate registration.
Registration fees will be kept at an affordable level.
Project Components to Outputs
Institutional capacity of project agencies  Moderate   TA both from foreign and local experts is planned in
the early part of the project. Practical hands-on
training will be imparted to project staff in the local
offices in the first phase of the project to become
familiar with the procedures and systems being put
in place by the project. Suitable space for the land
book offices and Judet cadastre offices is being
located prior to project effectiveness. Most of the
cadastral surveying and mapping would be
contracted out to the private sector.
Staff recruitment in ONCGC and the        High     Low salaries are bound to be a disincentive to attract
JCGCs; MoJ and land book offices                  and retain skilled staff in ONCGC, MoJ and the local
cadastre and land book offices. Incentives by way of
higher per diems and opportunity to participate in
international training programs are expected to keep
staff turnover low.
nstitutional cooperation               Moderate   Protocols have been prepared between ONCGC and
various ministries/agencies to ensure cooperation
and data sharing. PCU, which would have
representation from ONCGC and MoJ, will help to
bring about improved coordination between these
two agencies.
Targets not achieved                   Moderate   Targets will be kept at a realistic level in the project.
TA and training on procurement is expected to keep
the program on track. Most of the survey work will
be contracted out to the private sector and will be
financed from the loan amount so that tasks are
completed in a timely manner.
apacity of private sector             Moderate   Extensive discussions were held with the private
sector in the surveying and information technology
industry to build awareness in terms of the type,
extent and quality of work expected of them. Short
training sessions are planned, during the project,
for the private sector surveyors. Several small
contracts would be let during the first year of the



Page 14
Risk                 Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
project to test and gradually build the private sector's
capacity to undertake project work. The size and
number of contracts would be progressively
increased as their capacity and expertise to execute
the work increases.
Maintain and update cadastre and land   Moderate   Completion of the cost recovery study within the
registry                                           PY2 as a covenant in the Loan Agreement and
implementation of its recommendations to cover the
cost of maintenance of the cadastre and land registry
system being put in place.
Open access to information on landowner-    Moderate   Romania has made substantial progress toward the
ship, geodetic data, aerial photography, maps      release of government information. Agreement has
and land information to the public, private        been obtained in principle from Ministry of Defense,
surveyors and notaries, and other users            Romanian Intelligence and the project agencies to
allow access to information to potential users.
Overall Project Risk Rating
Overall Risk Rating                     Moderate   Overall project risks will be mitigated through
lessons gained from the implementation trials in the
first 18 months of the project; emphasis given to TA
and training is expected to balance the concerns on
the capacity of the project agencies; risks associated
with technical and administrative operations that
might progress slowly, or less cost-effectively, or fail
to achieve the quality of service required will be
reduced by involving the private sector, and
providing specific training and technical assistance
to project staff. Emphasis will be given to close
supervision by the implementing agencies and the
Bank, an early project launch workshop, and
progress reviews twice yearly against quantifiable
milestones.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
Conditions of Disbursement:
As a condition of disbursement for payments relating to the land registration component of the
project, provisional regulations implementing the land registration system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall
have been issued.



Page 15
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[x I The procurement documents for some of the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Signatures:
Team Lead :ad
n                      ~~~~~~Hayward
Coun*tr Director: Kenneth G a



Page 16
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary      Key Performance Indicators      Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Supervision                and Risks
CAS Objective                                                                 (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
Develop land market in   Increase in number of recorded  Regular reports prepared   Stable market situation
Romania                 real estate transactions by 30%   by local Monitoring &
by year 2003 in the project  Evaluation consultant in   Cooperation from notaries
area.                        the PCU in collaboration
with the foreign adviser.   Successful publicity campaign
and trust in government
resulting in people making use
of the registration system.
Project Development                                                           (Development Objectives to
Objectives:                                                                   CAS Objective)
(i) establish an efficient    Land Book offices and cadastre  A Set of disks and  Access to existing legal
system for securing land   offices operational; procedures  manuals;          records at OCOTs and urban
titles which can be     for a computerized (or manual)  staff trained; computer    authorities
expanded nationwide, (ii)  system for land book office  systems in operation;
create a general cadastre   and cadastre office and  forms in place are being    Sufficient licensed surveyors
system which provides    associated manual of        used
clear and current       procedures for operation                              The efficiency in transaction
definition of real estate    prepared by the year 2000.                       will take some time to filter
parcels; (iii) set up                                                         through the system. Change
simple, safe and cost   About a million titles       Land registration records  can not be expected until the
effective procedure for    registered by end of project.                     latter part of the project
land transactions.
About 650,000 parcels        Cadastre office records
surveyed during the project
period.
About 3.1 million units will be   Cadastre Office records
entered in the OJCGCs
database.
Processing time for standard    Inspection of Land Book
transactions (not involving  Office application files
surveys) between application
and actual registration at land
book offices within 3 days.
Alterations of land parcels and  Inspection of Land Book
their registration completed  Office application files
within 15 days               and Judet Cadastre Office
records



Page 17
Potential real estate disputes    Land dispute court
reduced by 30% in the project  records
areas by end of the project
period;
Inquiries on real estate    Land Book Office
information increased by 25%   records
by end of the project.
Project Outputs                                                             (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
A computerized general   Implementation trials      System documents;       A potential private sector in
cadastre system        completed by 18 months.      Periodic reporting and  surveying, and data entry
Systematic cadastre         supervision missions    continues to grow.
I computerized OJCGC with
database in operation by end of                     Sufficient staff can be
PY2, 2 offices by PY3, 2                            recruited, especially
offices by PY4 and 2 by PY5;                        considering the competition
Sporadic cadastre and                               for expertise in the private
registration: Eleven additional                     sector.
OJCGCs to support the
sporadic registration at the                        Sufficient staff can be
LBOs created between PY3                            transferred or recruited to
and PY5.                                            operate the system;
A fully operational land   Land book system         Periodic reporting and  Public aware and informed of
book system established   commissioned in 2 land book   supervision missions  benefits of land registration
offices by end of PYI, 5 by
end PY2, 23 in each
succeeding year.
Public awareness       Mass media spots seen by     Review by Monitoring &
campaign on benefits of   viewers/readers           Evaluation Consultant
land registration
implemented
Project Components                                                         (Components to Outputs)
PCU                    PCU established and equipped   Periodic reporting and  Sufficient personnel of the
supervision missions   required caliber
LBIG/GCIG               LBIG/GCIG established and    Periodic reporting and  Sufficient tenders from
equipped                    supervision missions.   experienced companies at a
realistic price
Contract for Information   Contract awarded and system    Set of installation disks
System Development     developed                    and associated manuals    Suitable weather. No
government security
restrictions preventing the
Contract for aerial    Contract awarded and teams in  Monitoring & Evaluation  completion of the contracts in
photography, base      place.                       reports                 the most cost effective manner;
mapping, and                                       I                       I_I



Page 18
orthophotography,      Following tasks completed:                           Information systems in place at
cadastre and data entry                                                    the right time for data entry;
Aerial photography
GPS densification           Monitoring & Evaluation  Staff training and TA in the
Mapping and                 reports. Contracts      project is sequenced to
Orthophotography produced    completed.             coincide with the equipment!
Data entry completed                                systems introduced in the
project so that they are utilized
Areas surveyed: 12,000 sq.                          effectively;
kms
Training of staff,     540 staff, managers and judges  Monitoring & Evaluation
surveyors, notaries    trained in the new land book    reports. Training
system;                     contracts completed.
Public notaries trained;
2 study tours completed;
128 Cadastre Office staff
trained
Develop a program of   General and specific public  Monitoring & Evaluation
public                 awareness campaign contracted  reports. Contracts
information            and completed                completed.
Leaflets distributed to real  Monitoring & Evaluation
Run publicity campaign    estate agents, public     reports. Contracts
information centers, TV/Radio  completed. Survey of
spots run                   farmers, urban property
owners and businesses.



Page 19
Annex 2
Detailed Project Description
1.    Project Scope. The project is designed to establish a general cadastre and land registration
system in the urban and rural areas. Out of the 42 judets in the country, project coverage will be limited
to about 7 judets for a systematic land registration system and 18 judets for a sporadic land registration
system. These judets have been selected based on predetermined criteria. They include: (a) areas active
economically and with a potentially high volume of land transactions, (b) areas with high land values, (c)
areas with potentially numerous land disputes, and (d) areas with adequate maps. Further consideration
was given to judets which are interested in establishing the cadastre and have adequate counterpart funds.
2.     The project has taken into consideration the existing institutional and human resource capacity to
develop a cadastre in the country and will have two phases. The first phase would concentrate on
implementation trials, training and technical assistance to lay the groundwork for the major task of
surveying, mapping, and land registration to take place during the second phase. Although a general
cadastre and land book system to cover the entire country will take many years, this project would
provide the finance to initiate that process in certain parts of the country by providing funding for high
priority investment, technical assistance and training.
3.     Approach and Trials. The Project would support the introduction of sporadic registration of
real estate in 18 judets and systematic cadastre and registration in 7 of those judets. Sporadic registration
would be demand driven. Systematic registration would be focused on priority areas. The project would
be implemented progressively over the five years starting with strategic planning and trials to confirrn
the operational procedures for cadastre and registration which are best suited to the differing conditions
in the towns, plains, hills, and former collectivized farms.
4.     Three trials are planned in the first year to test the following: (a) sporadic registration in an
existing land book area -- Brasov, is proposed -- followed by a similar trial in a former
transcription/inscription area, Racari district in Dimbovita judet; is proposed; (b) systematic registration
in Vulcana Bai, a comuna in Dimbovita (which was not collectivized) and in Targoviste where an urban
cadastre is nearly complete, and (c) collection and entry of Law 18/1991 titluri de proprietate into the
cadastre database and the land book registers (provisional) in Malu cu Flori, a formerly collectivized
comuna in Dimbovita judet. Further trials will be undertaken in later years to test the cost effectiveness
of aerial photography, low cost digital mosaics, and high resolution satellite imagery (see Project
Implementation Plan for more details).
5.    Bank financing would support an integrated computer hardware/software system for cadastre
database and land book system, service contracts for aerial photography, GPS control densification,
mapping, and orthophotography, cadastral surveying and data collection, rehabilitation of local cadastre
and land book offices, and equipment and vehicles for the project implementing agencies. Salaries and
operating costs of the National Cadastre Agency (ONCGC), MoJ, local cadastre and land book offices
would be met from the government budget.
Project Component I - Development of Cadastre, US$22.5 million (total cost of component)
The cadastre component would help establish a general cadastre and systematic registration in seven judets
and sporadic registration in 18 judets of the country. This component would support:
(i) service contracts for aerial photography, control densification, mapping and orthophotography
and systematic cadastre undertaken by the private sector;



Page 20
(ii) system design, procurement and installation of a cadastre information system to manage the
general cadastre database;
(iii) renovation and expansion of the local cadastre offices (OJCGCs);
(iv) vehicles, furniture and office equipment for ONCGC and the local cadastre offices;
(v) training and TA to strengthen ONCGC and OJCGCs.
Project Component 2 - Establishment of Land Book System, US$12. I million (total cost of component)
The land registration component would help establish a uniform land book system for the secure
registration of real estate parcels and associated rights. It would undertake registration of about one
million titles in 76 land book offices serving 18 judets. The component would involve:
(i) renovation and expansion of 76 land book offices in 18 judets to make the new land book
system fully operational;
(ii) vehicles, furniture and office equipment for the land book offices;
(iii) system design, procurement and installation of a computerized land book system;
(iv) service contracts for data entry of real estate titles into the land book system;
(v) TA and training for the land book judges, office staff, and notaries.
Project Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening, US2. 7 million (total cost of component)
In addition to the above two components the project will support:
(i) consultancy services to ONCGC and MoJ in the first few years of the project to strengthen
their capacity to manage and implement the project;
(ii) a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to ensure coordination in the operation of the two project
agencies;
(iii) a national publicity campaign to create public awareness of the benefits of land registration
and the procedures to make use of it;
(iv) a cost recovery study to quantify the market for land registration and cadastre and set
realistic fees and charges for services and data to recover a steadily increasing proportion of the
cost of operations and maintenance of the cadastre and registers from revenues received from
users.



Page 21
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Component             Local          Foreign           Total
Development of Cadastre                10.9             8.7            19.6
Establishment of Land Book System       6.2             4.2            10.4
Institutional Strengthening             0.4             2.0             2.4
Total Baseline Cost                    17.6            14.9            32.5
Physical contingencies                  0.9             0.7             1.6
Price Contingencies                     1.9             1.3             3.2
Total Project Cost                     20.4            16.9            37.3



Page 22
Annex 4
Cost Bencfit Analysis Summary
(US$ million)
Present Value of Flowsi            Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
__ _ ___  Analysis    Analysis                     Subsidies
Benefits                           NA               62.9            NA           NA
Costs                              NA               42.8            NA           NA
Net Benefits:                      NA               20.1            NA            NA
IRR: (%)                           NA               17.4
Probability that IRR
is below 12% is negligible
Using a discount rate of 12%.
2 Financial analysis here reflects the point of view of Government in relation to the costs it incurred and the
benefits that it is expected to derive directly from the cadastre and the land book registration system.
Main results:
6.     The base estimate for the rate of return (FRR) associated with the project is 17.4% indicating that
the project is viable and will not be a fiscal burden on the Government. The sensitivity analysis carried
out shows that the return on the project is robust to changes in costs and benefits. For instance, a
simultaneous increase of project costs by 50% and decrease of benefits by 20% respectively will result in
an FRR of 13%. (Details in the Project Implementation Plan.)
Main Assumptions:
7.     The fees for title registration and for other services rendered by the Land Book Offices are
assumed at $5 and $2, respectively, per parcel or case based on fee levels in other developing countries.
Again, a conservative estimate has been used for incremental transaction fee from land related
transactions (sales, transfers, mortgages, inheritance, etc.), ranging between $5- $15 over the project
period for each transaction. The overall demand for services of the land book office is estimated to peak
to about 2.8 million cases in 20 years. The capacity of the new land book offices to cater to the public
demand for their services is expected to increase gradually over the project years and reach full capacity
by year 12 in the project areas.
Externalities like land valuation increases and improved land tax collection that could result from the
new land book registration system are excluded from the analysis.



Page 23
Projected Incremental Revenues
(US$ million)
Description                              Year 5   Year 10   Year 15   Year 20
Incremental Annual Gross Revenues         2.18     12.00      23.01      25.39
Incremental Cumulative Gross Revenues     3.41     42.62     143.82     265.92
Incremental Annual Net Revenues           (7.69)    8.95      19.94      22.33
Incremental Cumulative Net Revenues      (38.97)   (15.03)    70.84     177.64
Overall, the project generates a gross revenue of $266 million over the 20 year period for which the
financial analysis was done. The cumulative cost during this period is about $88 million. The
incremental cumulative net benefit from the project, therefore, is estimated at about $178 million. The
project's payback period begins in project year 12.



Page 24
Annex 5
Financial Summary
(US$ million)
Implementation Period                     Operational Period
Project Costs          98/99   99/00   00/01   01/02   02/03   03/04   04/05   05/06   06/07   07/08
Investment Costs       3.2     5.9      7.9     8.2    7.3      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
Recurrent Costs        0.3     0.5    0.9       1.4     1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7
Total             3.5     6.4    8.8       9.6    9.0      1.7     1.7     1.7     1.7    1.7
Financing Sources
(% of total project
costs)
IBRD/IDA           78       74      72      69      65       0       0       0       0       0
Government         22      26       28      31      35     100     100     100     100     100
Total-          100     100    100      100     100     100     100     100     100     100
Fiscal Impact
(US$ million)
1994     1995      1996      1997*    1998*    1999*    2000*    2001*    2002*
GDP*               30,071    35,691    35,511    37,201    40,994    43,653   46,935    50,464    54,261
Annual govt.       9,640     11,401    10,577    10,112    11,518    12,595   14,014    15,366    16,808
revenue*
Revenues, in % of    32.0    31.9     29.7      27.1     28.1      28.8     29.8      30.4      30.9
GDP                                                                            _          _
Govt. counterpart                                        0.7       1.6      2.4       2.9       3.1
contribution for
project
Govt. counterpart                                        0.01      0.01     0.02      0.02      0.02
contribution, in % of
govt. revenues
* As per IMF estimates; in millions of US dollars.



Page 25
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Goods and Works to be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996. Consulting
services, TA and training would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and the Regional bidding documents established
for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), as amended from time to time, will be used for procurement.
Civil Works
The civil works included under the project consist of renovations and expansion of existing
offices in 18 judets (and 83 locations) of estimated value US$1.8 million, scattered in terms of location
and time. Individual civil works contracts costing less than $100,000 will be procured through
comparison of three quotations from local contractors, a procedure appropriate for procurement of minor
civil works. The overall schedule of civil works procurement steps is given in the Project Implementation
Plan.
Goods
The goods to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds include mapping and survey equipment,
office equipment, computers, vehicles, and furniture. To the extent practical, these items would be
grouped into efficient procurement packages for equipment, vehicles, and furniture. Equipment
packages valued under US$0.25 million will be procured through IS. Some small equipment of total
value US$0.3 and not exceeding $100,000 per package which is locally available and not of interest to
foreign manufacturers will be procured through NS. Another package valued at US$0.6 million would
consist of high precision mapping and survey equipment, manufactured by a handful of firms, and will
be procured through limited international bidding (LIB). Vehicles valued at US$0.6 million will be
procured through ICB. Furniture valued at $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$1 million
will be procured through National Competitive Bidding.
Technical Services
Total value of technical services to be procured under the project will be about US$25.0 million.
Technical services constitute approximately 66% of the project value. These include aerial photography,
control densification, mapping, orthophotography, land registration and cadastre systems development,
digital mapping systems, urban and rural surveys, and data entry contracts. Contracts for aerial
photography, mapping and orthophotography, land registration and cadastre systems, cadastre date base,
and digital mapping valued at US$6.7 million will be procured through ICB following the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. Urban and rural cadastral surveys and data entry services which are widely
dispersed over the entire country and require local language skills will be procured through NCB for
contracts more than $150,000 up to an aggregate of US$15.1 million and through National Shopping for



Page 26
contracts less than $75,000 for a total value of up to US$3.2 million. For survey and data entry work the
size of the contracts in the early project years are likely to be small and they will gradually increase as
the capacity of the private sector builds up to handle bigger contracts.
Consultancy
Consultants for technical assistance under the project (US$2.1 million) and for training and study
tours (US$0.6 million) will be selected through Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (January 1997). Individual training consultants (total value US$0.1 million) will be recruited
using the selection process for individual consultants. Total technical assistance and training under the
project is estimated at US$2.8 million. This includes about 72 staff months of long-term foreign
technical assistance spread over three years.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All bidding packages procured through ICB and other packages for equipment and materials
estimated to cost US$250,000 or more and the first two packages to be procured through NCB for each
implementing agency would be subject to prior Bank review. Technical services estimated to cost US$
150,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review. Consulting contracts in excess of $100,000 for
firms and $50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review procedures. The Bank will also
review, regardless of value, terms of reference for all consultants. Selective post review of awarded
contracts below the threshold level would be carried out during field supervision.
Other Bank Assistance
To facilitate efficient project implementation, standard bidding documents for goods, small
works, and the request for proposals (RFP) for consulting services will be provided to the project
executing agency. For procurement through national competitive bidding (NCB) the Borrower will use
the standardized Regional Bidding Documents.
Institutional Capacity Building in Procurement
Both the implementing institutions, ONCGC and the MoJ, have no institutional capacity at
present to carry out the procurement for the project. As early as possible (preferably through the ILO-
Turin course commencing in early 1998) four candidates, two from each of the executing agencies, will
be sent for an intensive procurement management training course held by ILO-Turin, Italy. Also, during
the first year of project implementation a reputed international procurement consultant will be retained.
A comprehensive procurement workshop for all staff concerned with project execution is planned as part
of the project launch in March/April 1998.
Notifications
A "General Procurement Notice" containing information about bidding opportunities for
procurement on the basis of ICB was published in "Development Business" on October 31, 1997 in
accordance with paras 2.7 and 2.8 of IBRD Guidelines. Specific Procurement Notices will also be
published, as appropriate, in Romanian newspapers with national circulation.



Page 27
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates the financing for the
various categories of expenditures.
Special Account: The Borrower will open and maintain Special Accounts with an acceptable
commercial bank in Romania on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. There will be two Special
Accounts for the project -- one for the cadastre component and the other for the land book and
institutional strengthening component. The GCIG (in ONCGC) will manage the SA for the cadastre
component and the authorized allocation of it would be $700,000. At the start of the project, the initial
deposit will be limited to $350,000 and the remaining portion of the authorized allocated could be
requested only after cumulative disbursements reach a level of $4 million. The LBIG (in MOJ) will
manage the SA for the land registration and institutional strengthening components. The authorized
allocation for this SA would be $300,000 with an initial deposit of $150,000. The authorized allocation
could be requested once the cumulative disbursements reach a level of US$2 million.
Withdrawal applications for the replenishment of the Special Accounts should be sent to the
Bank on a monthly basis, or when the balance of the Special Accounts is equal to about half of the initial
deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. These applications would have to be
supported by appropriate supporting documentation including a copy of the monthly bank statement of
the SAs which has been reconciled by the project agencies.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Disbursement for contracts for goods of or above $250,000 equivalent would be made against
fiull documentation, and for those less than this amount will be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Also, for consulting firms for contracts costing less than $100,000 and for individual
consultants for contracts less than $50,000, disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs. For
technical services under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent each and for all works,
disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs. Full documentation in support of SOEs would be
retained by the project agencies for at least two years after disbursement. This information would be
available for review during supervision by Bank staff and for annual audits which will be required to
specifically comment on the propriety of SOE disbursements and the quality of the associated record-
keeping.



Page 28
Annex 6
Table A: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Elements                           Procurement Methods                     Total
ICB         NCB          Other            Cost
1. Works
1.1 Buildings                                                  1.8a             1.8
(0.9)            (0.9)
2. Goods
2.1 Equipment                                                  0.7b&e/          0.7
(0.5)            (0.5)
2.2 Mapping & Survey Equipment                                 0.6c/            0.6
(0.4)            (0.4)
2.3 Furniture                                      1.0                           1.0
(0.1)                         (0.1)
2.4 Vehicles                          0.5                                       0.5
(0.4)                                     (0.4)
3. Technical services
3.1 Cadastre Implementation Contracts   6.7                                     6.7
(5.4)                                     (5.4)
3.2 Rural & Urban Surveys                          14.1        2.5e/             16.6
(11.6)      (2.0)            (13.6)
3.3 Data Entry Contracts                           1.0         0.7_/             1.7
(0.8)       (0.6)            (1.4)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Design & Supervision                                       2.4d/            2.1
(2.1)            (2.1)
4.2 Training                                                   0.7              0.7
(0.6)            (0.6)
5. Miscellaneous
5.1 Incremental Operating Costs                                4.9              4.9
(0.04)           (0.04)
Total                                   7.2          16.1        14.0             37.3
(5.8)       (12.5)      (7.1)             (25.5)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the Bank.
a!  Minor Civil Works through three-quotes shopping.
b/  International shopping.
c/  Limited International Bidding.
d/  Consultant Guidelines-January 1997 (QCBS).
e/  National Shopping.



Page 29
Annex 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
(in US$)
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .  .     . . .....
Element           ICB               NCB               IS                NS                Other Methods
(Goods/WorkslTe
chnical Services
1. Procurement    Works: n.a.       Works: n.a.       Works: n.a.       Works: n.a.       Works: Minor
method thresholds  Goods: >250,000   Goods: Furniture   Goods: 4250,000   Goods: 4100,000   works (quotations)
Tech.             <150,000          Tech. Svss.: n.a.    Tech. Svss.    Goods: specialized
Svss.>150,000     Tech.                               <75,000           eq. (LIB)
Svss< 150,000                                         Tech. Svss.: n.a.
No objection on
budget for
recurrent costs
2. Prior Review   All               First two from    n.a.              n.a.              Yes
each agency
Element           QCBS              QBS               Sole sourcing     Minor contracts    Other methods
(Consultant
Services)
3. Procurement    200,000           n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              Individual
method thresholds  _
4. Prior Review   Yes               n.a.              n.a.              n.a.              Yes (>50,000)
5. Ex-post        Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism:
Review            The Bank will monitor procurement activities, contract management and project record keeping during
I periodic supervision missions. 20% of contracts will be ex-post reviewed.
6. Brief statement:
Both the implementing institutions, ONCGC and MoJ, have no institutional capacity at present to carry out the procurement for
the project As early as possible (preferably through the ILO-Turin course comnmencing in early 1998), four candidates, two
from each of the executing agencies, will be sent for an intensive procurement management training course held by ILO-Turin,
Italy. Also, during the first year of project implementation, a reputed international procurement consultant will be retained. A
comprehensive procurement workshop for all staff concened with project execution is planned s part of the project launch in
March/April 1998.
7. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper  8. Are the bidding documents for the
Status: Country procurement Strategy paper finalized in 1995.   procurement actions of the first year
ready by negotiations?  Yes
9. Estimated date of Project        10. Estimated    11. Indicate if    12. Domestic      13. Domestic
Launch workshop: March/April 1998   date of General    contracts are    Preference for    preference for
Procurement       subject to        Goods/Works:      Consultant
Notice publication  mandatory SPN in  Yes/no          Services
11/97            Development                          No
I Business: No.    I    _      _
14. Retroactive Financing: No                                           15. Advanced procurement: No
The borrower will develop monitoring and reporting system for timely implementation.
17. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team:  Division:       Ext
S. Mitrovic, Procurement Analyst                         ECSRE           32182
18. Explain briefly the expected role of the field Office in Procurement:
Field office will provide backup on procurement issues to Project Tean.



Page 30
Annex 6
Table C: Allocation Of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the          % of Expenditures
Category               Loan Allocated            to be Financed
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (U S$)
(1) Works                                          50%
(a) Under Part A of the Project      35,000
(b) Under Part B of the Project     760,000
(2) Goods                                          100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
(a) Under Part A of the Project     550,000    of local expenditures (ex-factory cost),
(b) Under Part B of the Project     850,000    and 70% of local expenditures for
(c) Under Part C (i) of the Project  40,000    other items procured locally
(3) Technical Services                             80%
(a) Under Part A of the Project   13,900,000
(b) Under Part B of the project    3,600,000
(c) Under Part C (ii) of the Project  90,000
(d) Under Part C (iii) of the Project  90,000
(4) Consultants' Services & Training               100%
(i) Consultants' Services
(a) Under Part C (ii) of the Project  1,050,000
(b) Under Part C (iii) of the Project    1,050,000
(ii) Training
(a) Under Part A of the Project      95,000
(b) Under Part B of the Project     375,000
(5) Incremental Operating Costs                    100%
Under Part C (i) of the Project      40,000
(6) Unallocated
(a) Under Part A of the Project    2,300,000
(b) Under Part B of the Project     675,000
Total                         25,500,000



Page 31
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$'000)                Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)    (as of Sept. 1997)
$325,000
B. Project Schedule                        Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                               22*
First Bank mission (identification)          1/10/1994              1/10/1994
Appraisal mission departure                  7/07/1997              7/07/1997
Negotiations                                10/27/1997             10/27/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                5/25/1998                  / /19
Prepared by: Inter-Ministerial Committee, ONCGC and MoJ
Preparation assistance: PHRD $348,000; Dutch Trust Funds $48,000; FAO $30,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Kundhavi Kadiresan                         Economist
Hyko Laeyendecker                          Institutional specialist
C.P. Ranganathan                           Procurement Specialist
Doina Rachita                              Project Officer
Irina Luca                                 Project Officer
* Project preparation was on hold during 1995 and 1996 because of delay in passing the cadastre
and land registration law in Parliament.



*Page 32
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File *
A.    Project Implementation Plan
A. 1   Implementation Details on Cadastre, Land Book System
and Institutional Strengthening Components
A.2   Project Costs and Financing
A.3   Procurement Arrangements
A.4   Procurement Plan
A.5   Disbursement Plan
A.6   Project Implementation Schedule
A.7   Organizational Chart
B.    Detailed Cost Tables
C.    Bank Staff Assessments
C. 1   Computerization and Data Standards - Report (Andrew Coote,
Virgil Geanta, Silviu Siteu: May 1994)
C.2   Legal Framework - Report (Jo Henssen and Lucian Mihai: April, 1994)
C.3    Marketing Mapping and Land Information-Report (J. D. Leatherdale:
May 1994)
C.4   Land Registration and the General Cadastre-Report (Lynn Holstein and
Octavian Balota: May 1994)
C.5   National Cadastre-Report (Nicolae Taralunga: April 1994)
C.6   Land Reform - Technical and Operational Aspects - Report
(J D Leatherdale: May, 1993)
C.7   Working Paper No. 1: Land Market and Valuation (P W. Munroe-Faure:
April 1994)
*     Including electronic files.



Generated: November 3, 1997
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Romania
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                        disbursements a/
Project ID    Credit       Year               Borrower                       Purpose
No.                                                                              IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 36
Active Loans
RO-PE-44614   IBRD42130   1998   ROMANIA                             SCHOOLS REHABILITATI             70.00        0.00            0.00         70.00        0.00       0.00
RO-PE-39250   IBRD41780   1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA               SECOND ROADS                    150.00        0.00            0.00        150.00        0.00       0.00
RO-PE-8778    IBRD40790   1997   ROMANIA                             BUCHAREST WATER SUPP             25.00        0.00            0.00         23.89       23.89       0.00
RO-PE-8793    IBRD40960   1997   ROMANIA                             HIGHER EDUCATION                 50.00        0.00            0.00         50.00       50.00       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41760   1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA               ASAL                            280.00        0.00            0.00         80.00      150.00       0.00
RO-PE-8795    IBRD41761   1997   GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA               ASAL                             70.00        0.00            0.00         66.97      350.00       0.00
RO-PE-36013   IBRD39760   1996   SNCFR                               RAILWAY                         120.00        0.00            0.00        119.19      119.19       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39750   1996   ROMANIA                             FESAL                           170.00        0.00            0.00         20.00      130.00       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39751    1996   ROMANIA                            FESAL                            90.00        0.00            0.00         47.36      250.00       0.00
RO-PE-8773    IBRD39752   1996   ROMANIA                             FESAL                            20.00        0.00            0.00         16.95      280.00       0.00          X
RO-PE-8794    IBRD39360   1996   RENEL                               POWER SECTOR REHAB.             110.00        0.00            0.00        106.65      106.65       0.00         co
RO-PE-8776    IBRD38490   1995                                       EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTE             55.40        0.00            0.00         54.73       54.73       0.00
RO-PE-8774    IBRD37350   1994   GOVT. OF ROMANIA                    INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT          175.00        0.00            0.00        137.27      137.27    137.29           X
RO-PE-8777    IBRD37230   1994   Government of Romania               PETROLEUM SECTOR REH            175.60        0.00            0.00        147.96      147.96       0.00
RO-PE-8784    IBRD37240   1994   REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA                 EDUCATION                        50.00        0.00            0.00         41.79       41.79       0.00
RO-PE-8771    IBRD35930    1993   MOT                                TRANSPORT                       120.00        0.00            0.00          2.06        2.06       0.00
RO-PE-8759    IBRD34090   1992   MOF                                 HEALTH SERVICES REHA            150.00        0.00            0.00         53.92       53.92     53.88
RO-PE-8772    IBRD34860   1992   ROMANIA                             PRIVATE FARMER & ENT            100.00        0.00            0.00          1.27        1.27       0.00
Total                                                                                              1,981.00        0.00            0 .00     1,190.01   1,898.73    191.17
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 772.26           2:811.39            3,583.65
of which has been repaid:                  6.25            2,200.22            2,206.47
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              1,974.75              612.00            2,586.75
Amount sold                     :                 0.00               19.78              19.78
Of which repaid              :                 0.00              19.78               19.78
Total Undisbursed               :            1,190.01                  .83           1,190.84
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Page 34
Annex 10
Romania at a glance                                                                8/15197
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle.
Romnanla      Asia  income       Development diamond'
Popubltion mid-1996 (miblions)                        22.7       479    1.125                Lif
GNP peW-capita 1996 (USS$)                           1,440     2,180    1,750                  e expectancy
GNP 1996 (biions US$1                                 32.6      1.043    1,967
Averag,annual growtk 19996
Populatbionip                                         -0.4       0.3       1.4     GNP                              Gr
Llaboift f N                                           0.1       0.5       1.8     per                              Gross
1tit recent estimat (ltestyear avaiable since 1989)                                capita                       enrollment
Poverty. headcount index (% rofpopulatfon)             22          -        -
Mrban opulation (%oftfotal opltiobn)                    55        65       56                       I
Lif expectanc at binh  0es)                             70        68       67
Inantfmortalily per I1,000 Are bils)om                  23        26       41               Access to safe water
Clild malnrition (   ot chiNk     under .)
Acesi to ask wotar M of ppafon)                                   ..       78
Ilitarecyr ( ofopltn age I"                                                                 Romania
Gros ptmary enol Imant (% of schoo-ge population)       94        97      104
illlahL 0    0    ;   ;    i j    i                  A94        97      105                Lower-nidde-mncome group
Female2   iS ;;  ; 0 | :; f     :; ;0: i             :93        97      101
KEY ECONOImRAT1Os and LONG4ERM  TRENDS
1976     1ow S      998     1996
Economnic ratioa
GP~~~~b~~~n.(/SS)                 .. ~~~~~~~~~ 47.8  35.5   35.5
Gross domestic_bPt::0000:0                             9 invatmntlGO  0 40.40 ; 33.0   :25.6    ; 25.A  0   Openness of economy
E    4tso1 goads and servlcesiliOP             ..    22.9       27.4     26.9
GroasdoraaaticaavtngalOP:                      ..0  0 i; i: r37.2  21.1  18.9
Gr"s4t"nl seVGDP                                ..    35.9      214      18.8 
Curretaccoun tltt :ba:0XQ:}; lance/GOP  ;      ;      :         00..................   00    ;:;|00002.9   4.9  -6.6
interest  pmtsGP                               .       i.i       0.8      1.4      Savings                     Investment
towa debW/OP                                    .        ..     18.7      26.4
ota igdebtsep :c lexports ;: 0  : f0; 4; 0   0. 0 Xo o:  0 018.7 :.  1  1 1.5  13.4
OrsewS Vliki df deBbtGDP0                                        Wo:00 I 7  ;Eag ;- 
Present value of debt/GOPt                                      67 .  8.
rreaent value of debt/expOrts                  ..       .. 0 0 :l; ; t;  ; 67.7                Indebtedness
19746 1986-960    199S         1996  1997461 -
(faverge annualgrowth  y 0 y   ;:  ;:  ;Q ;ti: 0   : A 0 X                             -Romania
~~DP              4.8      4:4.     6.9        4.1      5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.01
FNP pei-cepwit nd                    4.;   0  4.i -3S; 00  6.1.  4.5:   051\          -     Lower-middlincome group
Expoilsofboodsandservices             ..      02      11.        0.8O      5.9    _______________
STRUCTURE of tho ECONOMY
( of GDP)                                   1976     *98S       1996     1996      Growvthmrts of output and investment I%)
Agriculture                                              ,      20.4      19.8   
Industry                                       ..       ..      39.3     38.2      3
Manufacturing                                                             , ..  -.
Services                                       ..       ..      40.3     42.0       o
9=    3      94   95   94
Private consumption                                   58.9      66.6     70.2     qo
General govemment consumption                          3.9      12.2     10.9
Importsofgoodsandservices                             18.7      31.9     33.4               -      Di      GDP
197S-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(averae annual giowth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                            2.4       4.8      1.4      20
Industry                                       ..     -&5        9.4      1.6
Manufacturing                                                                     o  \ .  ..
Services                                       ..    -5.0        5.7     10.0              91   92   93   94  9r   so
Private consumption                                    0.7      12.3      9.2    -20
General government consumption                         4.0      -2.4      -8.7
Gross domestic investment                             -3.2       1.5      3.3      J.4
Imports of goods and services                          2 7      14.1      7.0        EN                        Imports
Gross national product                        4.7     -3.5       5.9      4.0
Note: 199 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The dimmonds show four key indicatom in the country (in bold) compared with its income-roup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be Incomplete.



Poe 36
Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1376    1138"      1998      19906
Domcs kpdcz                                                                         Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         32  -
Consumer prices                                                   32.0     38.8 .8
Implicit GDP deflator                                   0.4       35.7     45.6    208
Govamm ant finac e
(% of GDP)                                                                              i
Current revenue                                  .     48.9       32.0     29.8 S            91   92   93   94   95   go
Currentbudgetbalance                                   29.7        2.7      1.4               -     GDPdaf. -OCPI
Overall surplusldeficit                                12.1       -2.6     -3.9
TRADE
1076     1986      1996      1996
(rnilons US$)                                                                        Export and Import levela (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                  10,174      7,882    8,238     15,00
Textiles                                                        2,065    1,985
Metals                                                          1,513    1,310
Chemicals                                                ,      1,001    1,145     1r
Total imports (cd)                              ..    8,402      9,487   10.3688
Food.                                                 180       818       892      5,uc
Fuel end energy                               ..    4,753      1.160    1,265
Capital goods                                  ..   3,489      7,509    8,211          0
Exportpnieindex(1993=100)                                 ,       106       108            so  91  92  93  94  95  96
Importprfceindex(19933=100)                                       105       104                   cExots   IMImpor
Terms of trade (1993=100)                                         102       104                                m
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1998    1996
(milons USS)                                                                        Current account balance to GDP ratIo (%)
Exports of goods and services                5,812   10,920      9,333    9,554
Imports of goods andsen/ices                 5,858    8,926    11,172   11,868          90 s 1     92   93   94   95  196
Resource balance                               -46    1,994    -1,839   -2,314         |
_2 
Net income                                     -89     -613      -262      -401
Net current transfers                           0         0       369      379
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers           -135    1,381     -1,732   -2,336    -a
Financing items (net)                         103   -1,698       1,541    3,216
Changes in net rterves                         32      317        191      -880     8
Memo:                                                                                                   _
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)            904    1,447      1,579    2,103
Conversion rmte (JocaWlUS$)                                    2,033.4  3,085.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986      1996      1996
(millions US$)                                                                      Composton of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          211    7,008      6,653    9,374
IBRD                                         19    1,833        844    1,009                             A
IDA                                           0        0          0        0               G            1009
2092                  c
Total debt service                              1    2,064        967    1,349                                   673
IBRD                                          0      274         53       63
IDA    -                                      0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                    D
OfFcial grants                                0        0         30        0                                     1507
Official creditors                           30       -61       698      737
Private creditors                             0      -845       267             |        F
Foreign direct investment                     0        0        419      410           2448                  E
Portfolio equity                              0        0          1        .                                1645
Word Bank program
Commitments                                 160        0        340      475      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                19       49        129      227      B -IDA    D-Othermultlateral   F-Private
Principal repayments                          0      146          0        0      C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Netflows                                     19       -97       129      227    -_1
Interest payments                             0      127         53       63
Net transfers                                19      -225        76      164
Development Economics. 1996 extemal debt and resource flows data are staff estimates (preliminary).                   8115/97



ROMANIA
UKRAINE                                                            GE
NERAL CADASTRE AND
LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT
-t'  S.,                                                                                0    ANI
Mare,-                                                                                                                            SPORADIC AND SYSTEMATIC
. .    MARAMURES                                                             Botosani         0
HUNGARY                               SATU                   Baia Mare                                                                                                          REGISTRATION
MARE         N.,                                                                                                                           SPORADIC REGISTRATION ONLY
BISTRITA-                                                                                      0    SELECTED CITIES
I A  S  I                            COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
NASAUD
Oradea                                Dej 0           013istrita..--                                                    Iasi                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
BIHOR                                                                                                                                              -  - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CLUJ                                                                                                r
Cluj-Napoca                                                                                                 Husi
0
M   U  R E S                                                            Vaslui 
Bacau
Tu,d. 0                                                                   0
If  Tirgu Mures        I'HARGHITA                   8  A    C   A    U          VASLUI
KILOMETERS
iercurea Ciuc(i)                                                               25      50      75    100
oG                                         lO  O  310  O  O
4p IV                                                        AL                                                                                                                                 MILES
e                                                    Alba iuli
-A6%                                                                                                                                                                                                                        46--
Deva                                                                    N
T I M  I S                                                                                                  he
Timisoura    0 Lugoi         Hmedodora                                                                                                                                        UKRAIN
(HUNEDOARA:
4%                                              Petrosari 0
Resitci
1%/                                                         Rimnicu                                                                                                 Tulcea
CARAS-                                              Vilcea 
Tirgu Jiu                              ARGES                                                                                T tJ L C EA
4:      SEVERtN                                           VILCEA
GORJ
.'mI-.-HED1NT1
drsova
Pro3beeta-Tumu'
erin
v
177                >1
FED. REP. OF                                                     "N        Slatino
YUGOSLAVIA                                            Craiova
(SERBIA/MONTENEG-RO)                                                             0 L T
DOLJ
0 Carao.1                                                                                                                     44-
z                                                              f/'6Izalafat                            4_0                                                                                                         8 L A C K
nga
Th. b-doie,    d-i-tim ord .,y o&, ml-tw                                                                                                                                                                       S E A
sh.- on fM ..p d. -t i.ply, o t6 p.H of Th, world 8.4
G-P, oy jdgrr-f - Me kgo/'Ioft' ,r-y fo"ifY' .' oy
-6-em., o-pf.- f woh bourdmi-
24-        BU                                 W                                              28-



