                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                  Report No:ICR0000000096


           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                (IBRD NO. 42580)

                                    ON A

                                    LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 25.5

                                      TO

                          GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA

                                    FOR A

          GENERAL CADASTRE AND LAND REGISTRATION PROJECT




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           ( Exchange Rate Effective 10/18/2006 )
                                Currency Unit = Romanian Lei
                           Romanian Lei 1.00 = US$ 0.35
                                    US$ 1.00 = Romanian Lei 2.82


                                       Fiscal Year
                                 January 1 - December 31




                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANCPI National Agency for Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity
CAP   Common Agricultural Policy
CAS   County Assistance Strategy
DO    Development Objective
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
EU    European Union
FRR   Financial Rate of Return
GCRP  General Cadastre and Registration Project
GOR    Government of Romania
IACS  Integrated Administration and Control System
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
JIS   Joint Information System
JUDET county
LBOs   Land Book Offices
LPIS  Land Parcel Identification System
M&E   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOAI  Ministry of Administration and Interior
MOJ   Ministry of Justice
NPV   Net Present Value
OJCGCs local cadastre offices
ONCGC National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PDO   Project Development Objectives
PMU   Project Management Units
RON   Romanian Lei (new)
TA    Technical Assistant

     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

   Country Director: Anand K. Seth

    Sector Manager: Marjory-Anne Bromhead

Project Team Leader: Victoria Stanley

                                                    Romania
                  General Cadastre and Land Registration Project




                                                CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 17
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 20
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 21
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 27
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 30
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 36
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 43
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 46
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 47
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 48
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 49
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 51
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 52

1. Basic Information
                                                                      General Cadastre and
Country:                Romania               Project Name:           Land Registration
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P034213               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-42580
ICR Date:               12/19/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR

Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:               GOVERNMENT OF
                                                                      ROMANIA
Original Total
Commitment:             USD 25.5M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 24.6M

Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies

ANCPI - National Agency for Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 02/09/1993           Effectiveness:     05/20/1998        05/20/1998
Appraisal:         07/06/1997        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          12/09/1997        Mid-term Review:                     12/15/2002
                                     Closing:           12/31/2003        06/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
time (Yes/No):                  No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory

Problem Project at any time
(Yes/No):                       Yes           Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:        Satisfactory




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                   30
Central government administration                                  54              30
Sub-national government administration                             46
Information technology                                                             20
Housing finance and real estate markets                                            20
                                                    Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Personal and property rights                                          Secondary
Land administration and management                   Primary          Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                       At ICR        At Approval
Vice President:                                     Shigeo Katsu     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:                                   Anand K. Seth    Kenneth G. Lay

Sector Manager:                                     Marjory-Anne     Joseph R.
                                                    Bromhead         Goldberg

Project Team Leader:                                Victoria Stanley Kundhavi
                                                                     Kadiresan
ICR Team Leader:                                    Victoria Stanley

ICR Primary Author:                                 Richard Baldwin,
                                                    Victoria Stanley




                                                2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Romania began a major land restitution and privatization program in the early 1990s. By
July 1997, almost 70% of the 4.3 million applicants who applied under Law 18/1991 for
restitution of land and property in the former collective farms had been issued property
titles (titluri de proprietate) confirming the transfer of land into private ownership.
Nearly all residential apartments had also been privatized. However, as there was no
functional national land administration system in place, the records of real estate
ownership were disorganized and fragmented, and partly as a result, there was little
land market development in either urban or rural areas. In the Bank's program to
assist Romania in improving the macroeconomic framework, supporting private sector
development, and creating a better policy environment, one of the key elements was to
support the development of land markets and establishment of secure land registration
and titling mechanisms.

The project supported the County Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective by helping to
establish an efficient system for securing land titles and a cost-effective mechanism for
land transactions. By facilitating land transactions, the project sought to help consolidate
economically non-viable agriculture farm units and facilitate the sustainable, efficient use
of land, other natural resources and infrastructure. A fast, secure and transparent system
of registration would protect all legal interests in lands and property, reduce the risk of
fraud, create confidence among owners to improve their property, and provide access to
credit at more reasonable interest rates. The project planned to address issues related to:
(a) providing security for private property ownership rights; (b) establishing a simple
institutional set up for safe and cost effective land transactions; and (c) allowing open
access to real estate ownership information that would encourage a transparent land
market.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) as defined in the PAD were:
a)        Establish an efficient system for securing land titles of real estate owners which
can be expanded nationwide.
b)        Create a general cadastre system that provides clear and current definition of real
estate parcels which form the basis for real estate registration.
c)        Set up simple safe and cost effective procedures for land transactions.

The aims were to rapidly put in place a relatively simple system to register property
rights and support land market transactions and a target was set for an increase of 30% in
the number of registered transactions by the end of the project. This was to be achieved
through supporting both a legal and technical modernization program in the Ministry of



                                                3

Justice (MOJ) - responsible for registering ownership and other interests and the newly
established National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography (ONCGC) -
responsible for the physical property definition.

6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification

The PDO has not been revised and has remained the same throughout the project.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The target population included current and future real estate owners, private investors in
agriculture, housing and industry, commercial banks and other users of land ownership
information. The project was estimated to cover about 3 million hectares of rural land
and 75,000 hectares of urban land.

Private owners benefit from more secure property rights and improved access to credit
using their property as collateral. Private owners also benefit from improved and more
efficient services provided by the land administration system. Professional users of the
system - notaries, banks, surveyors - benefit from improved access to information on the
property market, as well as more efficient and effective service delivery.

6.5 Original Components (as approved)

A. Development of Cadastre
Support aerial photography, base map development, cadastral surveys and a land
information system; strengthen National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography
(ONCGC) and the local cadastre offices (OJCGCs).
B. Establishment of Land Book System
Operationalize 76 land book offices in 18 judets in suitably equipped offices with an
automated land book system; train staff in the new land book system; provide
institutional support for the local land book offices.
C. Institutional Strengthening
Technical assistance to guide the implementation trials and to enhance the planning and
management capacity of the project agencies; information system design and
development for the cadastre and land book; and assistance to carry out cost recovery
studies.

The first two components would support the development of the key institutions involved
in land administration in Romania - the cadastre and the land book offices. Component
C would bring together the two parts of the system with technical assistance and the IT
system development.




                                              4

6.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

The most significant change during project implementation was in the institutional
structure.    At the start of the project there were two implementing agencies - the
Ministry of Justice through the land book courts and the separate National Office for
Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography. This dual agency land administration system,
common in Central and Eastern Europe especially in the former territories of the Austro-
Hungarian Empire, effectively split the project in two.

In 2004, the government of Romania recognized the inherent difficulties in this dual land
administration system and agreed with the Bank experts that a single land administration
agency - in line with international good practice - was the best way forward. The Bank
team had made several presentations to government officials to explain the rational for
this change. The new National Agency for Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity (ANCPI)
was officially established by government decree in May 2004 and began operating in
January 2005. While this change did not effect the scope of the project or number of
components, it did require significant change in the project management arrangements -
including going from two Project Management Units (PMU) to one. Amendments to the
Loan Agreement were necessary to make these changes in project management
arrangements and to modify the very inflexible Schedule 1 to allow for the one agency to
make disbursements for all components.
It should be noted that this change represents a statesmanlike move by the MOJ to forego
significant financial interest (from the registration fees), which has been an obstacle in
other countries in the region to such a reform. The MOJ also realized that staff, space and
other valuable court resources were being used for essentially uncontested, routine real
estate transactions and hindering the real business of the courts and judiciary. The
importance of this achievement for the project and for Romania cannot be overstated.

The original closing date was December 31, 2003. The loan was extended in the third
quarter of 2003, for another 18 months until June 30, 2005. The extension was agreed in
recognition of the difficult start-up period of the project and frequent changes in
management of the implementing agencies resulting in a two-year delay in
implementation. At the time of the request for closing date extension the project was
satisfactory and moving forward with several important activities including systematic
cadastre services in two judets and the joint information system development. A further
12 month extension of the closing date was agreed in late 2004 as part of the loan
agreement amendments. This final extension was granted due to the merger and
establishment of the new unified agency and the opportunity this afforded to complete
the institutional reforms under the project.




                                               5

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

At the time of project preparation, the land market in Romania was not considered to be
operating according to market norms. On a national basis, the number of transactions was
significantly below what would be expected in a modern market based economy. The
procedures were not consistent across the country, were time consuming, generated a
significant number of disputes and involved several agencies with many bureaucratic
steps. Previous politically driven land reform programs had resulted in large numbers of
unregistered titles (from the Law 18 restitution for instance) supported by weak field
sketches (parceling plans).

Further, there was a general lack of transparency in real estate dealings. The public were
not aware of the importance of the title registration process, and when they wanted to
engage in transactions, they were unsure of which agency to approach, who held
responsibility for what, and the public found it difficult to get advice and assistance
resulting in incomplete applications, rejections, multiple visits and general dissatisfaction
with the reliability of services.

Though this was one of the first of its type in the region, experience from other Bank
projects suggested that for any real progress to be made there must be certain factors in
place before a large investment could be expected to yield results. These factors included
a clear legal framework, a simple institutional structure and government commitment.
The project at design stage was built on the legal and institutional changes created in
1996 which were considered acceptable by the Bank at the time. The following favorable
steps were taken at the time of project preparation and demonstrated government
commitment to the project going forward:
    · The Law 7/1996 provided the legal basis for a single land registration system
        across the whole country able to support both sporadic (demand based) and
        systematic registration.
    · The creation of the new National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography,
        in November 1996 paved the way for the establishment of a national system of
        cadastre, bringing together the urban and rural data into a single agency.

Though the legal and institutional structures were considered sufficient to move forward
with the project, it was also recognized that a simpler, pilot-oriented project was
necessary to further solidify the reforms. Therefore, the project was designed to focus on
a limited number of judets selected based on pre-determined criteria including the
economic potential of the area and the number of transactions and land disputes.
Systematic cadastre would be piloted in 7 judets; and sporadic registration would be
supported in 18 judets (76 land book offices). The project was planned to be
implemented progressively over the 5 years starting with trails to test methodologies and
operational procedures for both systematic and sporadic processes.




                                                6

Quality at Entry

Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory. The project preparation team was aware that
the land administration legal basis was newly established and that, especially on the
cadastral side, there was a new institution to be created, skilled up and professionalized.
On the registration side, there was a major overhaul of the legal procedures necessitated
by the adoption of the land book system across the country.

For these reasons, the project designers took a step by step approach identifying three
components for support:      a) development of the cadastre; b) establishment of a land
book system; and c) institutional strengthening. The first two components would allow
the two implementing entities (ONCGC and MOJ) to focus on their own needs and
issues, while the third component would focus on technical assistance and development
of the joint information system designed to bring the two parts of the system together.

The risk of the dual agency approach was known at project entry, however the World
Bank team recognized that both institutions were facing considerable internal changes
(new laws, procedures, extensive data capture/data conversion programs) and it was
expected that the technical integration would proceed downstream once these initial
issues were resolved.

To minimize risk of poor integration and connectivity, it was decided to implement a
Joint Information System (JIS) and to have an on-site TA contractor to respond more
quickly to the clients' needs. The project also recognized the lack of skilled staff in the
public sector and the difficulty to recruit on low public sector salaries and chose to rely
on the private sector for mapping, cadastre surveying and data entry work.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The dual agency structure proved very difficult for project implementation. In addition,
the project management arrangements with two Project Management Units (PMU) and a
formal Project Coordination Unit (PCU) also proved unwieldy and the PCU was dropped
in December 2003, in favor of a more informal Project Coordination Group made up of
the Director, and one additional representative, from each of the two PMUs coming
together on a regular and structured basis.

When the project was appraised it had a limited scope in terms of coverage - focusing on
seven judets for systematic cadastre and 18 judets for sporadic registration. In 2001, the
project scope was widened to include support for all judets and this helped bring the
project to the forefront in both agencies. However this also presented difficulties as
achieving real progress in all judets required a great deal of focus and attention from both
MOJ and ONCGC. Systematic registration which had been piloted in two regions
(Dimbovita and Prahova) proved difficult to implement given the coordination problems
between the two agencies. This has been supplemented by the concept of cadastral index



                                               7

mapping - building the cadastre in a sporadic way based on already available data,
orthophoto maps, sporadic surveys, and limited re-survey.

While there was no formal restructuring of the project, in 2004 the GOR took the
decision to merge the cadastre agency (ONCGC) and the land book offices in the
Ministry of Justice into one agency. This change was welcomed by, and at the urging of,
the Bank team. The change required some changes to the loan agreement as there was
now only one implementing agency and therefore only one PMU. The change had no
impact on either the DO or the project components. In did, however, improve
implementation and allow for the rollout of sporadic registration methodology to all 42
judets.

The most difficult activity under the project was the development of the Joint
Information System (JIS). This required close cooperation and indeed collaboration
between the two sides - ONCGC and MOJ. It also required strong project management
and at least limited IT capacity within the two agencies. All of these success factors
proved elusive and the JIS development took four years rather than the originally planned
18 months. It should also be mentioned that the quality of sub-contractors and project
management on the contractor's side was also weak and added to the difficulties and
delays. The bid was done as a combined hardware and software procurement, making it
more likely that the winning bidder would be primarily focused on the hardware, not the
software. Considering the difficult institutional arrangements and the fact that cadastre-
registration systems must be customized to the national legal framework, this was not the
ideal procurement packaging. Again, this project was the first of its kind and all sides
were learning while doing. A separate bid for system design and development (without
hardware) would have allowed the bidder and the client to focus fully on the important
software issues. Finally strong and long term TA for IT project management might have
helped better support the JIS development. These lessons learned have already been
incorporated into the implementation of other land administration projects in the region.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project design called for the appointment of a monitoring and evaluation specialist
who would monitor project implementation, including the technical assessment of the
work undertaken, and progress against milestones. The M&E was hampered by the dual
institutional structure of the project, the two PMUs and the lack of cooperation between
the agencies. There was also a lack of understanding on the part of the borrower of the
importance of monitoring data for project management and decision making. Reliance
was therefore placed on the routine control statistics generated by the land book and
cadastre offices, and on output based reporting. No baseline data was collected during
project preparation as there was little data available.

The new Agency which is already operating on a self-financing basis, has recognized the
need for regular performance monitoring and a great deal of monitoring data has been
collected in the last year of the project (as can be seen from Annex 1). Regular quarterly
M&E reporting, which had ceased in 2002, were restarted in 2004 and ANCPI continues



                                               8

this function today.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

The project was rated a "C" category project at the time of appraisal as there were no
major environmental issues and the overall environmental impact was expected to be
positive. No other safeguards were triggered.

Throughout the project life a satisfactory financial management system has been
maintained. The Borrower has respected the relevant loan financial covenants, by
submitting to the WB quarterly financial monitoring reports and annual audit reports, in
general submitted in a timely manner. While some of the audit opinions included a single
qualification regarding some misclassification of expenditures among disbursement
categories in the early project years, this issue has been sorted out before the project
closing date and the needed adjustments performed. Overall, the financial management
capacity built throughout the project life within ANCPI is currently being transferred and
scaled up as part of the ongoing preparation of a new WB financed project, Farm
Restructuring Project, with the systems, procedures and staff being used as part of the
new project's institutional arrangement.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


The creation of a unified self-financing Agency and the merging of the offices across the
country is a very significant step for sustainability of the reforms. The Agency's position
as autonomous outside the ministry structure also allows it a certain freedom to make
decisions and act more like a business operation than a state bureaucracy. The Agency
has developed a monitoring system to collect transactional data and monitors the
different offices to ensure good service standards are being met. The Agency is
committed to rolling out the new IT system with its own funds throughout the remainder
of 2006 and 2007.

ANCPI is strongly positioned to continue the reforms begun under the project. ANCPI is
self-financing and is on a sound financial footing. The cash flow analysis for 2005
indicates a net operating income of RON 88.0 million (US$31.4 million). Total gross
revenues from services and related outflows, including staff salaries, services and
investments, are assessed at RON 203.9 million and at RON 111.5 million respectively.
However, the total net cash flow balance for 2005 is further increased to about RON
146.1 million (US$52.2 million) if the carry-over from 2004 is added.

The GOR has requested a new investment project that will build on the improved land
administration system now in place. The new project - the Farm Restructuring Project -



                                                 9

will have two components, the first of which will focus on systematic cadastre and titling
in priority agricultural areas. This systematic work will build on the results from the two
pilot systematic cadastre works (in Dimbovita and Prahova judets) completed under the
General Cadastre and Registration Project. This new project is also made possible due to
the strength of the new Agency's performance and improvements in service delivery. In
addition, ANCPI has applied for an received EU PHARE program funds for additional
systematic cadastre work activities. This project is already underway.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The project has addressed the CAS objectives as originally explained in the PAD.
Romania will enter the European Union in January 2007.A stable and secure land
administration system supporting the private property market is now more important than
ever. Recorded real estate transactions have more than doubled since 2003, and the
number of mortgage loans has increased from 1,948 mortgage loans recorded by the
National Bank of Romania in 2001 to 82,675 recorded in 2005.

Romania will receive some EUR 2 billion annually in agriculture subsides once it joins
the EU. The project has established the technical base for the Land Parcel Identification
System (LPIS) needed for IACS and the EU CAP subsides. This has been done by
strengthening the geodetic control network and developing national standards and
procedures for orthophoto and other geographic information. The project produced
orthophotos covering 40% of the territory of Romania and the balance was produced
using GOR funds according to the norms developed within the project.

The project has provided a solid basis (legal, technical, institutional) for a secure and
transparent land market, for systematic cadastre and registration activities in urban and
rural areas, and for forests restitution.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)

The Project Development Objectives as specified in the PAD have been achieved. A
secure land book system has been established throughout the whole country. A simple
cadastre system is also in place and has now been integrated with the land book to
provide a one-stop-show for property transactions (simple, efficient and cost effective).
The overall processing times have been significantly reduced and the quality of the processing has
significantly increased. The public are more aware of the need for registration, and the
process is being professionalized. For example, six years ago, clients would submit their
own documents to the separate offices, visiting the notary, the land book office and the
cadastral office themselves; now in some offices, 80% of the applications are submitted
directly by notaries or surveyors on behalf of clients. This significantly reduces the
incidence of incorrect or incomplete applications, provides a faster service to the client



                                                   10

and transforms the client's experience of the process. The average time it takes to process
a standard transaction (sale) is now down to an average of 10 days from 30 to 60 days
just two years ago.

ANCPI now has complete digital orthophoto coverage of the whole country and has
introduced the concept of cadastral index mapping to allow it to provide a geographical
reference for all parcels, though without precise field boundaries. Cadastre services are
carried out by the 42 regional offices involving 3085 cadastral units. The number of
sporadic registrations (on demand) entered into the cadastre has increased from 165,258
in 1999 to 594,783 in 2005. It is estimated that the numbers this year (2006) are going to
be another 20-30% higher. This growth can be seen in the table below.

Number of cadastral registrations (1999-2005)

              1999      2000      2001      2002    2003       2004        2005
Urban         76,851 175,032 170,442 162,927 198.919 230,348               271,226
Rural         34,411 65,701 75,695 76,305 108.045 154,387                  235,947
Apartments 48.900 150,056 139,256 123,645 114,845 94,389                   84,665
Land units 5,196        4,150     1,971     1,352   2.223      2,706       2,945
Totals        165,258 394,939 387,364 364,229 424,032 481,830              594,783

These figures reflect the growth in the number of cadastral parcels registered showing
that the increase is more than three-fold over the period 1999-2005. The increase in the
number of rural parcels is particularly notable in recent years as entry into the EU
provides an impetus for land market activity in rural areas.

The land book system is now operational in all 42 judets and 3 million new land books
have been opened in the former transcription-inscription areas (south and east of the
country). This points to both an increase in land market activity, as well as more
recognition of the need to register ones property. Standard applications are registered in
some ten days, and alterations to land parcels are processed in 15-20 days. ANCPI is
managing some 3,000 cases per day - both cadastre and registry transactions. Interviews
with stakeholders (notaries, banks, etc.) and anecdotal evidence tell us that most
transactions are being registered with ANCPI and this is supported by the growth in
numbers recorded by the Agency.

The costs of carrying out a property transaction in Romania are in line with regional
trends and the transaction processes are now simpler and more transparent. The private
sector is investing heavily in real estate, both Romanian and foreign investors. The
market is also moving from speculation to development. Much of the commercial
development market involves identifying and releasing assets currently identified as
either residential or industrial. The market is buoyant; in the residential market, it is
estimated that prices are in the order of US$75,000 to 88,000 for a 70-80 sq m apartment
(Bucharest) and that the number of transactions is some 5-6000 per year. Three years ago
the average price was US$22,000 and the number of transactions only 2000-2500.



                                              11

Access to information has also increased as more property owners are aware of the
services of ANCPI and the importance of registration, as well as growth in the land
market. Requests for extracts (property related information) have increased from
approximately 1 million in 2002 to 1.5 million in 2005. Other ministries have also been
able to use the data generated by the project for their own purposes. This includes use of
the orthophotos by the Agriculture Ministry in the preparation of the IACS/LPIS system
necessary for EU subsidy payments.

One unexpected outcome has been the growth and growing sophistication of the private
sector in Romania. The private sector has grown with the project providing numerous
and increasingly sophisticated services - cadastre surveying, data entry, digitization of
cadastre plans, document scanning and indexing. This is a positive development for the
future programs and projects of ANCPI in this sector but also for Romania as it enters the
EU and foreign investment increases along with the need for sophisticated and well
managed surveying (for road construction, housing development), scanning and data
entry services and others.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The implementation of the project has resulted in important benefits to both individuals
and the Romanian society as a whole alleviating two of the major constraints towards the
development of land market, namely, the title insecurity and insufficient quality of
service delivered. This has facilitated real estate transactions consisting of property sales
and leases, accelerated building development and land acquisitions for builders and
developers, and contributed to a revamped mortgage market. Some of the most
significant project benefits include an increased volume of transactions, higher property
values, and a reduction in service delivery costs. In summary, and on the basis of the
above considerations, project economic benefits could be estimated in four dimensions: i)
impact on the property market; ii) environmental impact; iii) streamlining of registration
process; and, iv) impact on the banking system. Estimating the magnitude of project
benefits under the first two dimensions is a complex problem for a national program and,
following the appraisal approach, no attempt as been made at project completion to
estimate related project benefits. Property values are in fact influenced by a wide range
of factors including access to public services, size, and use of the property, each of which
interacts with land tenure. The ex-post economic analysis was therefore carried out
taking into consideration only the third and fourth dimensions i.e., the impact of the
project on the banking system and the streamlining of registration processes. Details on
the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) calculation are given in detail in Annex 5 and
briefly discussed below.

Impact on the Banking System       An estimate of the financial opportunity cost for
unrealized investments for both the situations ­ with and without project ­ has been
made. When a financial institution approves a loan, the corresponding amount is reserved
until the mortgage is finally recorded. During that period the financial institution incurs



                                              12

an opportunity cost in unrealized investments. According to the project the average time
to record a document, estimated at about 50 working days for the situation before project,
is currently around 30 days ­ a savings of about 20 days. In 2005, the total number of
mortgage loans reached the level of over 82,000 and it is assumed that this figure would
remain constant in the future. Considering that the average size of mortgage loans is
about US$40,000 the total value of mortgages issued nationwide can be reasonably
assessed at around US$3.3 billion per year. At the same time, if we consider that the
annual average passive interest rate in 2005 was about 2.5%, the total saving of
opportunity costs that would have derived from unrealized investments can be estimated
at about US$4.5 million per year [US$ 3,300,000,000 x 2.5% x (20/365)]

Time Saving in Registration Process The project is currently having an important
positive impact on response time and the number of visits to ANCPI offices that clients
must make to follow up on an application for registration. As indicated in detail in Annex
5, the total economic value of time saved as result of the project is estimated at about
US$1.7 million per year.

Project Cost    The total project investment costs have been included in the analysis.
However, investment costs have been expressed in constant 2006 prices (Annex 5, Table
3). Annual incremental operating costs of ANCPI are estimated at 5% of total annual
cumulative investment costs and are assessed to reach US$1.7 million per year from
2006 onwards.

Economic Rate of Return On the basis of the very conservative assumptions regarding
the quantification of project benefits as described above and taking into account the
overall project investment costs, the ERR has been re-assessed at 13.7% which is
considered satisfactory. At 10% discount rate and over 30 years, the NPV is estimated at
US$4.7 million. The analysis is given in detail in Annex 5.

Financial Viability     As foreseen at appraisal, the project intended to encourage a
partial recovery of costs while generating many revenues from registration fees, sale of
geodetic data, maps and other land ownership related information searches. LBOs and
ONCGC were expected to become self-financing from fees revenues and its local
officers were also expected to recover a growing proportion of their expenditures from
sales revenues. In this regard, a comprehensive cost recovery study was to be undertaken
during the first year of the project to review the sources of revenues generation for the
cadastre and land books offices and recommend realistic charges for services and
products and to develop institutional mechanisms and legal approvals needed to permit
these revenues to be retained by the LBOs and the New Cadastral Offices. The cost
recovery study, completed by October 2000, recommended, "establishing for the
principal organizations the fee levels for services, including data and information
supplied that will recover the total cost of provision of the service". These
recommendations have been implemented. LBOs and ONCGC merged in 2005 to form
the National Agency for Cadastre and Land Registration (ANCPI). The principal aims of
the Agency include: i) the development and maintenance of a unified and reliable system
of Cadastre and Land Registration offering users an efficient and secure service; ii) the



                                              13

achievement of improving performance targets; and most importantly iii) be set up as a
self-sustained state owned organization able to recover its cost through fees for services.
ANCPI is in strong financial footing and the Agency continuation seems assured. The
cash flow analysis for 2005 presented in Annex 5, Table 5, indicates a net operating
income of about RON 88.0 million (US$ 31.4 million). Total gross revenues from
services and related outflows, including staff salaries, services and investment, are in fact
assessed at RON 203.9 million and RON 115.9 million respectively. However, the total
net cash flow balance for 2005 is further increased to about RON 146.1 million (US$
52.2 million) if carry over from 2004, including loans and grants amounting to about Ron
58.1 million, are added. This important financial surplus is expected to be utilized to
meet the needs of future investment programs of the Agency, mainly including
expanding space and building facilities for staff. A new organizational structure is now in
place to allow the Agency to operate along business lines. The self-financing agency is
itself a financial benefit of the project, providing for significant budget savings for the
GOR.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory


The PDO has been achieved and is more relevant now to Romania than ever. A unified
national registration system has been established in all 42 judets with professional
registrars (119 licensed registrars) in place throughout the country. There are 163 offices
throughout the country providing efficient, integrated registration and cadastre services.
Average time to process a simple registration (with no cadastre work) is on average 10
days. This falls short of the project target of an average of 3 days, which was perhaps a
bit overly ambitious. It should be said that 10 days is well above the average in the
region.

As Romania enters the European Union a secure, transparent and efficient land
administration system supporting the property market is essential for the country to take
advantage of the potential for further economic growth and development.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

No social assessment was carried out at appraisal and the legal framework was found to
recognize the rights of women and guarantee equal access.          The project was to have a
positive social impact by reducing the number of property disputes and increasing
security and transparency.

A customer survey was carried out at mid-term in 2002 to gain insight into: the level of
awareness of the public of the project and the cadastre and registration system changes;
performance of the cadastre and land book offices; degree of client satisfaction with



                                               14

these services; and stakeholders' view of the system's shortcomings. The overall results
showed that 44% of respondents required more than one visit to resolve their problems
and that the time waiting in line was reported to be longer than the time spent to resolve
the problem. However, in spite of that 82% of clients responded that they were satisfied
with the overall cadastre and registration system and less than 8% reported having to pay
any informal fees to have their problem resolved. Unfortunately no beneficiary surveys
were carried out after the initial 2002 customer survey. A public awareness campaign
was planned under the project but due to reluctance of the many agencies involved, it
was not completed. ANCPI felt that they needed to complete the transition and solidify
the new agency before reaching out to the public. One of the key objectives of the public
awareness campaign was to encourage first registration, however many ANCPI offices
were overloaded with backlogs inherited from the courts, new staff, training and other
concerns and the fear of an onslaught of public interest was very real. This is the one
aspect of project implementation that was not satisfactorily completed.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The single agency model for land administration bringing together the cadastre and
property register under one management structure is considered international best
practice. In Europe and elsewhere in the world the trend is in this direction (for example,
Sweden, Norway, Slovenia, Czech Republic, Hungary). During preparation the Bank
took a back seat in terms of institutional options, however the experience in Romania and
several neighboring countries showed clearly that the dual agency model was more time
consuming and expensive for implementation and less efficient for citizens.

The new agency - ANCPI - has achieved in less than two years what the project was
unable to achieve under the dual agency system in five years, namely the rollout of an
integrated cadastre-registration system (paper based) and establishment of the land book
in all parts of Romania. All citizens throughout the country can now expect the same
integrated service from any ANCPI office. ANCPI is working to further standardize
services. A national institute of registrars is being established to further professionalize
registrars and improve service and quality (security of registration). A national strategy
for the general cadastre has been prepared to guide further establishment of the general
cadastre across Romania.

ANCPI has supported revisions to the law on private surveyors and the establishment of
a chamber which would be responsible for licensing and professional standards and
sanctions. This is international good practice. Overall the further professionalization
within the agencies and professions supporting the property market is good for Romania
and its citizens. ANCPI can and should act as a leader in this sector.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

At the time of project preparation it was recognized that the private sector, particularly
private surveyors would play an important role in implementation, but less attention was


                                               15

paid to the need for strengthening and professionalization of the private sector. As the
project has progressed, the need for appropriate professional standards and codes of
conduct for cadastral surveying, conveyancing and notarial services, valuation become
clear and the project has provided the opportunity for these private sector interests to
develop. This has had a direct impact on the quality and reliability of the registration,
led to a reduction in processing times (more complete and better information submitted)
and consequently has contributed to a reduction in disputes, and thereby a more cost
effective and secure system.

The project has also resulted in a unified system of land registration. This was not
anticipated, and the benefits are still filtering through. Externally, the public sees less
bureaucracy and a faster turnaround; internally, the staff has a greater understanding and
respect for the work of the different sectors resulting in closer cooperation and
understanding. Registrars and surveyors now have a better understanding of each others
profession and that they are providing an integrated service to the public.

Finally, the project did not anticipate that a fully self -financing agency would be
established as a direct result of the project. This is a tremendous step that provides for
the future sustainability of the sector, and could suggest a model for other agencies in the
region.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

The raising of the public's awareness has already begun with the international conference
hosted by ANCPI in June 2006 which also served as the closing conference for the
project.    The conference was attended by some 300 individuals representing land
administration agencies from throughout Europe, staff of local ANCPI offices, notaries,
surveyors and other representatives of the land administration professions, GOR officials,
and members of the public. Participants of the conference were asked to evaluate
several aspects of the conference, and the overall evaluation was 3.7 (on a 4 point scale,
with 1 representing the lowest score).

Stakeholder interviews carried out at the time of project closing focused on the
professional customers of the system - notaries, banks, real estate agents, surveyors.
The main response was the satisfaction with the direction ANCPI was heading and the
overall improvement in the functioning of the system since unification. The Stakeholder
interviews also showed that in some offices (especially busy urban offices) the public
now use professional services to interact with the ANCPI, submitting their applications
through notaries or real estate agents. It is clear that the level of service has improved
greatly since the unification of the cadastre and land book functions. ANCPI has
integrated the procedures so that clients no longer have to run from office to office. The
interviews all point towards a maturing of the real estate market.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate



                                                16

ANCPI is firmly established as the single registration and cadastre agency. Any change
to this institutional outcome would be costly and institutionally quite difficult. The land
books have been physically transferred as have many of the staff. The new integrated
business processes are in operation in all offices and clients are generally satisfied.

The new information system that includes integrated workflows for registration and
cadastre will further seal the marriage of these two functions. ANCPI is rolling out the
new system to six offices this year bringing the total to 13 of 42, including Bucharest,
Brasov and some of the largest, busiest offices. The rollout will continue through 2007
to all 42 judets. This will further improve the quality and efficiency of the registration
and cadastre services provided.

The private surveyors, notaries, banks and other interested key stakeholder groups are
generally pleased with ANCPI and interested in increased cooperation. Their support is
crucial as they are the main customers of the Agency in the future.

ANCPI is self-financing, allowing it a greater amount of autonomy. The main weakness
and vulnerability of the system is that the Director of ANCPI is a political appointment
and therefore subject to changes at the ministerial level. The new Agency has already
had three directors in two years and this instability at the top continues to be a
concern. The management must be stabilized and allowed to consolidate the agency's
successes.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

This project was one of the first property rights projects in the region after the collapse of
communism.        The project was extensively prepared making use of experience from
other regions. The design of the project was well researched and consistent with the
priorities of the GOR and the country assistance strategy. The decollectivization and
restitution of land began in the early 1990s and numerous laws were enacted to reinforce
private property rights and a market-based structure, and the project provided direct
support to improving the functioning of the property market.

Though the project preparation period was long, it paid off through presence and
engagement with the client in the agreement to simplify the institutional set-up as much
as possible by forming the new National Agency for Cadastre, Cartography and Geodesy
responsible for all cadastre issues. The project also supported the Ministry of Justice to
introduce the land book system to support sporadic, on-demand registration throughout
the country. This was a pragmatic approach tailored to the needs of the client at the time.
The project also sought to test systematic methodologies in some judets and expand year



                                              17

by year to build on institutional capacity as it developed.

Several key risks were identified, including institutional capacity and skills to complete
the project and institutional cooperation between the two implementing entitles. These
risks were well identified and the project design focused on institutional capacity building
and strengthening through component C.

The risk of lack of institutional cooperation was rated as moderate and this was probably
an underestimation, given the very difficult project implementation and lack of
institutional cooperation experienced throughout the project period. However at the time
of project design and appraisal there was less experience in the region with land
administration projects and their institutional arrangements.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank undertook regular supervision missions. Mission staff included the appropriate
technical experts and the client was pleased with the advice and guidance provided. The
project was declared a problem project (Implementation status rated unsatisfactory) once
in late 1999 due to slow implementation progress and weak management within
ONCGC. Implementation progress was rated satisfactory during the following mission
in mid-2000. The project remained satisfactory from then on. It may be that
the supervision team was a bit too kind in its supervision ratings as the delays and weak
management continued to plague the project.

There could have been stronger information technology expertise early on in
the development of the Joint Information System which might have mitigated some of the
difficulties with the long contract implementation. Development of complex IT systems
requires depth and experience which the client was lacking. The team, though
experienced, also would have benefited from more specialized IT expertise in supervision
of the IT system. The procurement method used - combined hardware and software bid -
was, in hindsight, not the best method. Again, the project, as one of the first of its kind
in the region, provided good lessons learned for other projects in the region.

After several years of difficult project implementation and lack of inter-agency
cooperation, the Bank team strongly advocated for changes in the institutional set-up to
move toward a single agency. This advice was listened to and the GOR's decision to
establish a single agency for registration and cadastre is considered a significant outcome
of the project. The Bank team promptly adjusted to the changes in institutional structure
and project management arrangements and mobilized significant expertise to advise the
new agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory




                                                18

The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. Good technical expertise was provided and
the client was appreciative of the advice and guidance.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government of Romania (GOR) was committed to achieving the development
objectives throughout implementation, however the Agency directors and deputy
ministers assigned to the project constantly changed and this made implementation
progress difficult. Though this changes were sometimes in response to lack of
implementation progress and unsatisfactory ratings by the Bank team, it is clear that
implementation would have been faster and smoother had there been more consistent
management and high level leadership.

These constant changes in leadership were somewhat mitigated by the skilled staff in the
two project PMUs who were instrumental in ensuring the project stayed on track.

The GOR came to recognize the difficulties of the dual agency model and made the
necessary decision to merge the cadastre and land book in 2004. This was a important
decision and politically quite brave of the Ministry of Justice and Ministry of
Administration and Interior given the vested interests involved.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing
Agency                 Performance

ANCPI - National       The National Agency for Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity (ANCPI) has worked

Agency for Cadastre    hard over two years to ensure the integration of the cadastre and land registry

and Real Estate        offices in all 42 judets, to integrate the business processes to improve service to
                       customers, to complete the joint information system, and to complete the project to
Publicity              meet its intended development objective.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Though there were difficulties in the early years of the project with consistency of management
and inter-agency cooperation, the final outcome of a single, off-budget agency is a successful one
and to the credit of the Romanian government for making the decision to integrate the registry
and cadastre.

The new Agency - ANCPI - has worked hard over the final two years of the project to complete
all of the work and commit and spend almost half of the loan funds. This has been done
successfully without sacrificing quality.

Overall the borrower's performance is satisfactory.




                                                       19

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

There are several specific lessons from this project, some of which reinforce experience
gained elsewhere.

1. A key success factor is the establishment of a workable institutional structure, and the
single agency model works best.
The project experienced severe problems due to the historic institutional structure
and lack of institutional cooperation. These were not fully known at the time of project
design and were only overcome by the establishment of a single agency responsible for
both the title registration and cadastre. The Romanian situation was further complicated
in that there was a prior history of separate responsibility for urban and rural cadastres.
This experience suggests that where systems are immature and responsibilities diffused
across several organizations then the adoption of a single agency structure within the
early phases of the project is critical for successful implementation. However, this is not
just good for implementation, in the absence of a single agency it is citizens who are
forced to do the integrating, running from one agency to another. In the case of
Romania, it was a combination of political will on the part of the government, strong
support from the Country Director, and sound technical advice of the Bank team that
came together to establish the single agency.

2. The building of public confidence in the system and ensuring the public has access to
the professional support services (notaries, real estate agents) is necessary not only for
successful implementation, but for truly achieving the objective of secure property
markets.
In Romania there is a significant increase in the use of professional services by the public
in land market transactions. In many regions the notaries are responsible for managing
the transaction on behalf of the clients and this leads to better preparation of documents,
fewer rejections and faster solution of cases. The establishment of the unified system,
merging the land registration and cadastre functions, has also improved public
confidence as the public sees better and faster services delivered.

3. Projects may place too high expectations on automation and underestimate the
complexity of large scale IT system development.
The project (like many land administration projects) involved the development of an
information system to manage real estate records and support transactions across the
country. The information system development component experienced difficulties and
was severely delayed. The original scope called for a system to be established in two
institutional structures but exhibit a large degree of integration. Simpler is better and a
phased approach to development, with a first generation system being upgraded later to a
more sophisticated one, may be preferred in countries with IT management is weak and
system requirements are unclear or undecided. Finally, more attention must be paid in
both design and implementation to building sufficient IT and management capacity in the
beneficiary agencies to manage such large IT systems development, rollout and
maintenance.



                                              20

4. Sustainability needs to be built into project design; and this is about human capacity.
The Romanian project focused on sustainability when moving to single agency status and
established a sound financial basis for the further development of the sector. This is one
of the strongest results of the project. However, sustainability was and still is hampered
by a lack of human and institutional capacity, particularly management capacity. While
the technical capacity was also often quite limited (particularly in the IT field),
management skills are critically important to successful implementation as well as
sustainability of the institution.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments were received from ANCPI and the complete set of comments can be found
in Annex 10. The Borrowers' Completion Report has been received and is filed. The
comments reinforce the main findings of the ICR that the single agency is a significant
outcome itself and that the good cooperation between the client and Bank team,
especially in the later years of the project, led to a successful outcome.


(b) Cofinanciers




(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               21

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) as defined in the PAD were:
a)      Establish an efficient system for securing land titles of real estate owners which
can be expanded nationwide.
b)      Create a general cadastre system that provides clear and current definition of real
estate parcels which form the basis for real estate registration.
c)      Set up simple safe and cost effective procedures for land transactions.

The aims were to rapidly put in place a relatively simple system to register property
rights and support land market transactions and a target was set for an increase of 30% in
the number of registered transactions by the end of the project. This was to be achieved
through supporting both a legal and technical modernization program in the Ministry of
Justice (MOJ) - responsible for registering ownership and other interests and the newly
established National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy and Cartography (ONCGC) -
responsible for the physical property definition.



Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The PDO has not been revised and has remained the same throughout the project.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

  Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from          Revised       Achieved at
                                             approval            Target      Completion or
                                            documents)           Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase the number of recorded real estate transactions by 30%
Value
(quantitative  184,704 recorded                                            436,086 recorded

or             transactions annually    increase by 30%                    transactions

Qualitative)                                                               annually

Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/30/1997                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       more than doubled
achievement)
Indicator 2 : land book and cadastre offices operational in all 42 judets

Value          land book offices                                           Functioning land
(quantitative  functioning in only half operational in all                 book and cadastre
or             the country. National    42 judets                          offices in all 42
Qualitative)   cadastre agency just
               beginning.                                                  judets

Date achieved 05/20/1998                12/31/1997                         06/30/2006



                                             22

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : About 1 million titles registered by the end of the project.
Value
(quantitative                             1 million titles                   3 million land

or            n/a                         registered                         books opened (titles

Qualitative)                                                                 registered)

Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 650,000 parcels surveyed during the project period.
Value
(quantitative                                                                671,575 parcels
or            n/a                         650,000                            surveyed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : About 3.1 million units will be entered in the cadastre database
Value
(quantitative                                                                4,741,391 property

or            n/a                         3.1 million                        units entered into

Qualitative)                                                                 digital database

Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 : processing time for standard registration within 3 days (does not include new
              survey)
Value
(quantitative several months on average 3 days                               An average of 10
or                                                                           days
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 : processing time for alteration of land parcel and registration within 15 days
Value
(quantitative
or            several months              15 days                            average of 20 days

Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments



                                               23

(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Potential real estate disputes reduced by 30% in the project areas
Value
(quantitative
or            n/a                         decrease by 30%                    n/a

Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998                  12/31/1997                         06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      Information not available from the courts. Decrease of 32% in administrative

achievement)  appeals within ANCPI from 1417 to 860.

Indicator 9 : Inquiries on real estate information increased by 25%
Value
(quantitative                                                                1,427,616 land book

or            1,044,536 annually          increase by 25%                    extracts issued

Qualitative)                                                                 annually

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/1997                         12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %      increase of more than 30%
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                 Original Target Values     Formally    Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator   Baseline Value         (from approval          Revised        at Completion or
                                        documents)           Target
                                                             Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 : established digital cadastre system

Value                           systematic cadastre pilots              7 judets support digital

(quantitative no digital        in 7 offices; eleven                    sporadic cadastre and

or            cadastre system   offices prepared for                    registration; 2

Qualitative)                    sporadic cadastre and                   systematic pilots
                                registration                            completed
Date achieved 05/20/1998        12/31/1997                              06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      All 42 judets support sporadic registration and cadastre with manual system;

achievement)  digital system to be rolled out nationwide in 2007

Indicator 2 : A fully operational land book system established
Value         land book
(quantitative system            establish land book                     land book system
or            operational in    system nationwide                       operational nationwide
Qualitative)  half the country
Date achieved 05/20/1998        12/31/1997                              06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : public awareness campaign implemented



                                                24

Value
(quantitative no PAC and        mass media spot seen by
or            little awareness  citizens                               PAC not implemented

Qualitative)  of the public

Date achieved 05/20/1998        12/31/1997                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : develop joint information system to support cadastre and registration services
Value
(quantitative no digital system system  contracted and                 system developed and
or                              developed                              piloted in 7 judets
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998        09/30/2003                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      will be rolled out nationwide in 2006-07
achievement)
Indicator 5 : develop joint information system to support cadastre and registration services
Value
(quantitative no digital system system  contracted and                 system developed and
or                              developed                              piloted in 7 judets
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998        09/30/2003                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      will be rolled out nationwide in 2006-07
achievement)
Indicator 6 : contract aerial photography, base mapping orthophotography and data entry
Value
(quantitative                                                          aerial photography and

or            n/a               survey 12,000 sq. kms                  orthophoto maps

Qualitative)                                                           covering 95,000 sq kms

Date achieved 05/20/1998        12/31/1997                             06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      covering 40% of the territory of Romania
achievement)
Indicator 7 : develop joint information system to support cadastre and registration services
Value
(quantitative no digital system system  contracted and                 system developed and
or                              developed                              piloted in 7 judets
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998                                               06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %      will be rolled out nationwide in 2006-07
achievement)
Indicator 8 : maintain project management unit(s)
Value                           PCU and 2 PMUs                         PMU(s) maintained
(quantitative n/a               established                            throughout project



                                               25

or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/20/1998     12/31/1997                          06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %     implementation arrangements changed during implementation, but required

achievement) management structure maintained




                                          26

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     27

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


         Components          Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of
                                   (USD M)               (USD M)           Appraisal
CADASTRE                                   19.70                 20.86           105.89
LAND BOOK SYSTEM                           10.40                  6.72            64.62
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING                               2.40                  4.84           201.67

          Total Baseline Cost              32.50                 32.42
Physical Contingencies                      1.60
Price Contingencies                         3.20
          Total Project Costs              37.30
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                  0.00             0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                  0.00             0.00
    Total Financing Required               37.30                 32.42



(b) Financing


                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds            Type of                                Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing   Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                (USD M)           M)         Appraisal

  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                    25.50          24.60        96.47
DEVELOPMENT
  LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV.,
DISTRICT, CITY) OF                                    11.80           7.80        66.10
BORROWING COUNTRY


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          28

29

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

The three major components of the project and their detailed outcomes are summarized in Tables 4.1, 4.2. and
4.3. The overall project was planned on the basis that there would be one institution (ONCGC) responsible
for the Cadastre component and one institution responsible for the Land Book component (MOJ). The project
benefited enormously from the decision by the Government of Romania to unify these institutions into a
single Agency (ANCPI) in June 2004.

Component A: Development of Cadastre

Under Law 7 (1996) the cadastre functions were consolidated into one agency ­ ONCGC and its network of
42 cadastre offices. This organization initially lacked trained surveyors and technical systems to support the
production and maintenance of cadastral data. Various offices carried out local activities, including digitizing
some existing cadastre maps (local initiatives), however the systematic development of ONCGC and its
network of offices really began under the project.

This component concentrated largely on technical matters (see Table 4.1). The component planned to develop
the technical infrastructure necessary to support a systematic cadastre including
    · developing the norms, regulations and procedures for the creation, validation and acceptance of
         cadastral data
    · basic geodetic control system and densification
    · basis for cadastral map data management
    · information system for management and servicing clients cadastral needs
    · data conversion of existing data and its consolidation into a single cadastral database
    · renovation of offices, provision of equipment, vehicles
    · training and technical assistance.

Laws, Norms and Regulations
The legal base is Law 7 (1996). The project has supported the development of norms and regulations for the
creation of the cadastral protocols, the submission, review and acceptance of cadastral data from private
surveyors, the use of GPS and conversion factors, the acquisition of aerial photography and the creation and
verification of digital orthophotomaps.

Geodetic Control and Densification
The Agency has developed techniques for control densification of the geodetic reference network using GPS.

Cadastre Index Map and data conversion
This project has pioneered the development and acceptance of the cadastral index map in Eastern Europe as a
way of integrating different cadastral records which have various levels of accuracy. There are almost 5
million Law 18 titles issued that relate to agricultural privatization and are described on simple sketch maps,
without careful boundary identification and delineation. The Cadastral Index Map (CIM) approach allows
these titles to be approximately located on a digital orthophotomap and within a single coordinate system, and
also allows isolated cadastral property surveys (sporadic registration) to be shown. The CIM provides a way
of bringing together the various records created under different laws at different times, including the parceling
plans from Law 18, the digitizing of existing cadastral maps, sporadic registration, data from the former
specialized cadastres, and data from Decision 834/1991 (preparation of cadastral and title registration data for
state owned enterprises).

The project has also converted all of the existing law 18 titles to digital form. There are approximately 4.9
million Law 18 (agricultural) and Law 247/2005 titles (forest) created which are 96% complete at project


                                                  30

closing (90% of these are Law 18 titles) covering 11.6 million hectares. This involves an estimated 40 million
individual parcels contained within the parceling plans. The project has provided for the conversion of these
parceling plans to digital form.

The project has also provided support for sporadic, or on demand, registration on the basis of a sale, mortgage
or other transaction. These can be shown precisely on the CIM. These properties identified on the CIM have
precise survey plans. Approximately 60-80% are urban properties. The number of sporadic registrations will
increase significantly as the land market grows and their fast and efficient processing is a necessary to sustain
the land market growth.

Joint Information System (JIS)
The JIS was designed as a dual architecture system supporting cadastral and land book applications across
two institutions. This complicated the workflows. Following the institutional merger, the JIS essentially
retains the cadastral and land book components though the level of integration is higher. This was installed in
pilot form in six judets (plus Bucharest) in April 2006 and will be installed at all other judets across the
country using GOR funds. The cadastre module includes functions to manage the cadastral information
(textual and graphical), provide updates and maintenance, and support the servicing of requests for
information as well as maintaining the geometry of boundaries. The land book module supports intake of
applications, checking of documents, registration and receipt to client, all with built-in electronic workflow.

Renovation/ Rehabilitation / Goods
Many of the cadastral offices needed renovation, rehabilitation, and the provision of office
equipment, furniture and technical surveying equipment. Two major renovations were completed
under the project ­ Timis and Suceava ­ and further renovations to 15 cadastre and land book offices
were also done. The project, under this component, also provided archive furniture and other equipment
including IT, GIS, GPS, survey equipment and vehicles to support the work of the Agency.

TA and Training
Training included technical and procedural training, monitoring and evaluation, and management.

Operational Impact
Processing times have been reduced for first registration from an average 90 days down to 30 days. Control
information can be supplied to Surveyors in digital form and the resulting surveys accepted in digital form,
speeding up applications and reducing the opportunity for errors. Digital Orthophoto information is available
across the whole territory and can be supplied on demand. These digital orthophotos also have been made
available to Ministry of Agriculture for preparation of the LPIS and potentially to other ministries,
municipalities, etc.

Table 4.1. Outputs of Cadastre Component

 Component          Description                      Detailed outputs
 A.                 Support aerial photography, base Geodetic Control
 Development of     map development, cadastral       ·    control densification, GPS reference network established
 Cadastre           surveys and a land information
                    system; strengthen National      Aerial photography and Ortho photomaps
                    Office for Cadastre, Geodesy     ·    Development of norms, regulations and technical
                    and Cartography (ONCGC) and      procedures for modern aerial photography and the production
                    the local cadastre offices.      of quality orthophotos
                                                     ·    Acquisition of aerial photography and creation of
                                                     orthophoto maps for 40% of the territory of Romania at scales



                                                 31

                                                    of 1:5000, and 1:2000, 1:1000 for urban areas.

                                                    Cadastre Index mapping and data conversion
                                                    ·     Development of cadastral Index mapping technique and
                                                    its adoption by the cadastral offices, including norms, data
                                                    content, structures, quality control
                                                    ·     Cadastral index maps produced for Dimbovita and
                                                    Prahova counties (more than 630,000 parcels, 100,000 titles).
                                                    ·     Cadastral index maps completed in 78 administrative
                                                    territories in 39 Judets as a way of spreading the technology
                                                    (more than 400,000 parcels and 120,000 titles)
                                                    ·     Data conversion and creation of digital archive of law 18
                                                    data for all 42 judets in Five lots (approx 4.9 million titles).
                                                    ·     Cadastral Index map and digital archive for Bucharest

                                                    Joint Information System
                                                         · Functioning cadastre module integrated with land
                                                              book system.
                                                         · The JIS was installed in 6 judets and Bucharest
                                                              within the framework of the current project and will
                                                              be rolled out to all other judets over the next 18
                                                              months.
                                                    Renovation / rehabilitation of Offices / Goods
                                                    ·     Timisoara, Suceava offices plus 15 other cadastral and
                                                    registration offices
                                                    ·     Archive and Storage equipment
                                                    ·     Office furniture and IT equipment
                                                    ·     Survey equipment, GPS, GIS
                                                    ·     Network cabling of offices
                                                    ·     Vehicles
                                                    ·

Component B: Establishment of Land Book System

The component planned to support the adoption of the land book system across all the territory of Romania
and in particular
   · renovation and expansion of 76 land book offices in 18 judets
   · vehicles, furniture and office equipment for the land book offices
   · system design, procurement and installation of a computerized land book system
   · service contracts for data entry of real estate titles into the land book system
   · TA and training for the land book judges, office staff, and notaries

This component aimed at putting in place a fully operational land book system in 76 Land Book offices in 18
judets including the system design, procurement and installation of a fully computerized land book. The
merging of the Land Book offices and the cadastre offices afforded the opportunity to create and install a
more integrated IT solution.

Laws, Norms and Regulations.
The legal base for the land book is provided by Law 7 (1996) and provided for all of Romania to adopt the
land book system replacing the inscription/transcription system where this existed in 27 judets. This has now
been implemented and is operational at all land book offices. ANCPI has elaborated further operational
norms and regulations and formed cooperation agreements, for instance, preparation and submission protocols



                                               32

with the notaries. This increases the quality of the applications and results in fewer rejections for incomplete
or mistaken information.

Data Conversion
The project has provided for the data conversion of the transcription/inscription registers where they existed
in 27 judets in preparation for their entry into the Joint Information System (JIS). The project has also
supported the conversion of the Bucharest land book to digital form, which again will be migrated to the JIS.

TA and Training
Training included technical and procedural training, monitoring and evaluation, and management.

Operational Impact
Processing times have been reduced for first registration from an average 90 days down to an average of 20
days, and subsequent registrations are usually carried out in less than 10 days. There is still quite significant
variation in processing times between offices.

Table 4.2. Outputs of Land Book Component

  component               description                         Output
 B. Establishment of      Operationalize 76 land book
 Land Book System         offices in 18 judets in suitably    Establishment of Land Book system
                          equipped offices with an               · Land book system now operational in all 42
                          automated land book system;                 judets replacing former dual system
                          train staff in the new land book    Joint Information System
                          system; provide institutional          · Functioning land book module; integrated
                          support for the local land book             with cadastre.
                          offices.                               · The JIS was installed in 6 judets and
                                                                      Bucharest within the framework of the
                                                                      current project and will be rolled out to all
                                                                      other judets over the next 18 months.
                                                              Data conversion
                                                                 · Scanning and indexing of the land books
                                                                      (350,000) and cadastre documentation in
                                                                      Bucharest
                                                                 · Conversion of 3,000
                                                                      inscription/transcription registers covering
                                                                      27 judets

                                                              Renovation/Rehabilitation
                                                                 · Renovation of offices and provision of
                                                                      office furniture, equipment.
                                                                 · Archive and storage equipment
                                                                 · Renovation of land book/cadastral offices

                                                              Training.
                                                                 · More than 300 staff trained in the new land
                                                                      book system.




Component C: Institutional Strengthening



                                                   33

This component provided for the provision of consultancy services to the beneficiaries and specifically the
provision of technical assistance in the management and implementation of the project. This component
provided for the development of the Joint Information System (JIS) bringing together the land book and
cadastre. This component also provided for policy related studies.



Institutional Strengthening
One of the most significant outputs of the project is the emergence of a new institutional structure, with all
land administration functions consolidate into one agency, ANCPI. This replaced the former dual system
(MOJ and ONCGC), which itself was a consolidation of an earlier more fragmented system. This new
institution has allowed the opportunity to create a new internal institutional structure, which is more suited to
the operational workflow and needs of clients.

Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance to the client was supplied throughout the project period. The TA team assisted the client
with project execution through feasibility studies, helping to develop regulations and standards, providing
technical advice, terms of reference, technical specifications, procurement advice and developing policy and
strategic/business plans. The TA team also supported the monitoring process and provided regular
performance reviews.

Policy and Strategic Studies
A number of policy level and strategic studies were supported to help the organization develop its long term
strategic plan. These include studies on cost recovery, the cadastre strategy, national spatial data
infrastructure, among others. This component provided assistance to ANCPI for the preparation of its
Strategic Plan and its annual Business Plan.

Institutional and Professional Development
The merger created the single institutional structure and highlighted the range of professional support needed
to provide a full land administration service. The result is that staff within ANCPI have a greater recognition
and appreciation of the skills of registrars and cadastre surveyors. The project has also recognized this need
and provided support for the establishment of a national Institute of Registrars, supported the licensing of
cadastre surveyors and established protocols for interactions between the Agency and the Notaries Chamber
and greater internal support for the management of IT projects.

Table 4.3. Outputs of Institutional Strengthening component

 component          description                   Outputs
 C.                 Technical assistance to guide Technical assistance and Project Management
 Institutional      the implementation trials and     · An international/ Romanian technical assistance team
 Strengthening      to enhance the planning and            was appointed to provide continuous support and
                    management capacity of the             technical assistance. This team provided support for
                    project agencies; information          technical specifications, developments of methodology,
                    system design and                      supported pilot project tests and assisted with
                    development for the cadastre           procurement.
                    and land book; and                · The PMU(s) provided management, financial and
                    assistance to carry out cost           procedural support to the project.
                    recovery studies.
                                                  Institutional strengthening
                                                      · Support to gradual merger of offices and the creation of a
                                                           single land administration agency
                                                      · New corporate structure and new combined land book /



                                                  34

         cadastral office structure with a planned cohort of 3350
         staff (2006).
    · Development planning for National Institute of Registrars
    · Protocol agreements with Notaries
    · Licensing of cadastral surveyors.
    · Plan for development of IT department at national HQ
         and IT support across the country
Publicity
         ·     new department for PR established
         ·     preparation of publicity brochures
         ·     preparation for publicity campaign for ANCPI


Policy level Studies / Strategic Plans
    · cadastre strategy and plan for development of the
         systematic general cadastre.
    · national spatial data infrastructure study
    · assistance with Strategic plans and Business plans
    · comparative reviews, policies, cost recovery,
         benchmarking




35

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Introduction
Projects of this nature have a number of important economic, environmental and social benefits. Enhanced
land security would contribute to increased agricultural investment and productivity, greater environmental
management and improved land value, thereby generating increases in household's incomes. Beneficiaries
would mainly include property owners, intermediaries involved in real estate transactions, i.e. banks and
real estate agents, and both local and national governments. The World Bank is supporting land
administration projects in several parts of the world because it has clearly shown that secure tenure and
effective and efficient registration systems allowing rapid and secure transactions are essential for
economic prosperity. In spite of this, the economic analysis of most cadastre and registration projects,
where data quality and coverage may often be problematic, would naturally be a function of the impact on
the various assumptions adopted in the analysis, hence the internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
estimates would be speculative.

The Economic and Financial Analysis Carried out at Appraisal
The primary objective of the project was to provide secure land ownership rights and to facilitate the
operation of the land market. As such, the quantification of the economic benefit of the project was difficult
given its overall "public good" character. The aim of the project was in fact to put in place a public
infrastructure necessary to activate a land market and to build institutions. Economic benefits for projects of
this nature were considered enough to assess and efforts in this regards would have been purely speculative.
As a result, only the financial analysis and cost recovery estimates were carried out at appraisal. According
to Law No. 18, the cost of the systematic cadastre and first registration of restituted land titles was to be
borne by the government as the final stage in restoring private ownership rights. However, the cost of
maintaining the cadastre and the titles was expected to be partially recovered from users of land
information. It was also recognized that the sustainability of the cadastre and the land book registration
would have depended upon achieving steadily increasing revenues from fees from the registration of
subsequent transactions and associated cadastral surveys. The project was designed to encourage a partial
recovery of costs by: i) charging a registration fee for the service of the land book involving creation or
modification of records; ii) fees for searches and providing copies of registers; and iii) sale of geodetic data,
maps and other land information. On the basis of the above and assuming conservative estimates for
benefits in the modelling of costs and returns, the Financial Rate of Return (FRR) was estimated at 17.4%.
The Net Present Value (NPV) in financial terms was estimated to amount to some US$20.1 million.

The Economic and Financial Analysis Carried out at Completion
Project economic benefits could be estimated in four dimensions: i) impact on property; ii) environmental
impact; iii) streamlining of registration process and, iv) impact on the banking system. Estimating the
magnitude of project benefits under the first two dimensions is a complex problem for a national
programme and, following the appraisal approach, no attempt as been made at project completion to
estimate related project benefits. Property values are influenced by a wide range of factors including access
to public services, size, value of constrictions, use of the property, each of which interacting with land
tenure. As designed, the project relied upon the operation of the market to consolidate land into economic
units, to move underutilized assets into more intensive use, and to provide an exit route for owners who
want to sell or lease, or who prove to be uncompetitive as farmers or businessmen. Increased property
values, under this kind of projects, is in fact mainly determined by aggregating of the capitalized values of
two main types of benefits associated with land regularization and include the improved investment and



                                              36

environmental conservations incentives, and the ability to use the land as collateral for mortgage loans. The
positive environmental impact due to the project is expected to derive mostly from the introduction of soil
conservation measures and better agricultural practices. Improved agricultural practices in lands with legal
security are in fact instrumental for obtaining higher yields, reduced production costs as well as the
reduction and/or the elimination of soil erosion. However, in view of good data on project implementation
indicators collected by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (M&E) within the PMU, an attempt has been
made by the ICR mission to carry out an ex post cost benefit analysis to estimate the ERR of the project
taking into consideration its positive impact on the banking system to reduce the cost of mortgage loans
administration and on the streamlining of registration process

A) Project Benefits

Impact on the Banking System.
An estimate of the financial opportunity cost for unrealized investments for both the "before" and "after"
project situations has been made. When a financial institution approves a loan, the corresponding amount is
reserved until the mortgage is finally recorded. During that period, the financial institution incurs an
opportunity expense in unrealised investments. According to the M&E Unit the average time to record a
document, estimated at about 50 working days for the situation before project, is currently around 30 days,
saving of about 20 days. Official Data provided by the National Bank indicate that the number of mortgage
loans was as low as 1,948 and reached 82,675 in 2005. In estimating future project benefit, it has been
assumed in the analysis that this figure would remain constant for the years to come. Considering that the
average size of mortgage loans is currently about US$40,000, the total value of mortgages issued
nationwide can be reasonably assessed at around US$3.3 billion per year. At the same time, if we consider
that the annual average passive interest rate is presently of the order of about 2.5%, the total saving of
opportunity expense that would have derived from unrealised investments can be estimated at US$4.5
million per year [US$3,300,000.000 x 2.5% x (20/365)].

Time Saving in Registration Process.
The project is currently having an important positive impact on response time on the number of visits to
Cadastre and Registration offices that clients must take to follow up on registry process. The table below
indicates the time necessary to complete a registration process before and after the project with the estimate
of value of time saved in economic term:

 Economic Value of Time Saved in Registration Process
                                                                    Before    After     Difference
                                                                    Project   Project
 Av. response time/document (Work days)                             50        30        20
 No. of working weeks (5days/week)                                  10        6         4
 No. of visits/week                                                 2         2         -
 No. of working hr/visit                                            2         2         -
 Total No. of working hrs.                                          20        12        8
 Economic value of time (US$2.5 /hr)                                50        30        20
Total Average annual number of mortgage loans from 2005 onwards: 82,675
Total Economic Value of Time Saved: US$1.65 million/year (US$20 x 82,675)

B) Project Cost



                                             37

The total project investment costs have been included in the analysis. The difference in actual versus
planned costs of Component B ­ Establishment of the Land Book System ­ is noticeable (see Table 2).
Actual costs are some 40% less than planned. The original plan included significant sums for minor works
(renovation of land book premises) and goods (archive and other furniture). The merger of the land book
offices and the former ONCGC meant that many land book offices moved into the premises of the cadastre
or into temporary rented space and the need for office renovations and new furniture were much less than
expected. Also because of the merger, the training was combined under Component C ­ Institutional
Strengthening.

Investment costs have been expressed in constant 2006 prices and, as indicated in Table 3, amount to
US$33.8 million. Annual incremental operating costs of ANCPI are estimated at 5% of total annual
cumulative investment costs and are assessed to reach US$1.7 million per year from 2006 onwards.

C. Economic Rate of Return
On the basis of the very conservative assumptions regarding the quantification of project benefits as
described above and taking into account the overall project investment cost, the ERR has been re-assessed
at 13.7% as shown in Table 1. At a 10% discount rate and over a period of 30 years, the NPV is re-
estimated at US$4.7 million. The sensitivity analysis based on a 20% increase of gross revenues deriving
from both the impact on i) the banking system and ii) the time saving in registration process resulted in an
ERR of 18.3% and the related NPV would reach US$10.9 million.

D. Financial Viability
At the time of project design, the Government of Romania did not have a general policy on cost recovery in
public sector service provision. The organisations responsible for the General Cadastre and Land Book
functions respectively the National Office for Cadastre, Geodesy, and Cartography (ONCGC) and the
Ministry of Justice, Land Book Offices (LBOs) were budget organizations. As foreseen at appraisal, the
project intended to encourage a partial recovery of costs while generating many revenues from registration
fees, sale of geodetic data, maps and other land ownership related information searches. LBOs and ONCGC
were expected to become self-financing from fees revenues and its local officers were also expected to
recover a growing proportion of their expenditures from sales revenues. In this regard, a comprehensive
cost recovery study was to be undertaken during the first year of the project to review the sources of
revenues generated for the cadastre and land books offices and recommend realistic charges for services
and products and to develop institutional mechanisms and legal approvals needed to permit these revenues
to be retained by the LBOs and the New Cadastral Offices. The cost recovery study, completed by October
2000, recommended "establishing for the principal organizations the fee levels for services, including data
and information supplied that will recover the total cost of provision of the service." These
recommendations have been implemented. LBOs and ONCGC merged in 2005 to form the National
Agency for Cadastre and Land Registration (ANCPI). The principal aims of the Agency include: i) the
development and maintenance of a unified and reliable system of Cadastre and Land Registration offering
users an efficient and secure service; ii) the achievement of improving performance targets; and most
importantly iii) be set up as a self-sustained state owned organization able to recover its cost through fees
for services. ANCPI is in strong financial footing and the Agency continuation seems assured. The cash
flow analysis for 2005 presented in Table 5 below, indicates a net operating income of about RON 88.0
million (US$31.4 million). Total gross revenues from services and related outflows, including staff salaries,
services and investment, are in fact assessed at RON 203.9 million and RON 115.9 million respectively.
However, the total net cash flow balance for 2005 is further increased to about RON 146.1 million



                                              38

(US$52.2 million) if carry over from 2004, including loans and grants amounting to about Ron 58.1
million, are added. This important financial surplus is expected to be utilised to meet the needs of future
investment programmes of the Agency, mainly including expanding space and building facilities for staff.
A new organizational structure is now in place to allow the Agency to operate along business lines.




  Annex 5. Table 1: Economic Rate of Return. (Figures in US$ million)



                         Investment  Increm.    Benefits:       Benefits:
  Year                   Costs       Operat.    Impact on the   Registrations    Balance
                                     Costs      Banking
                                                System          Process


  1 (1998)               0.43        -          -               -                -0.43
  2                      0.82        0.10       -               -                -0.92
  3                      0.91        0.10       -               -                -1.01
  4                      1.06        0.16       0.10            -                -1.12
  5                      3.00        0.31       0.30            0.10             -2.91
  6                      6.39        0.62       1.10            0.40             -5.51
  7                      3.74        0.82       2.20            0.80             -1.56
  8                      2.90        0.96       4.50            1.65             2.29
  9                      14.53       1.70       4.50            1.65             -10.08
  10 to 30               -           1.70       4.50            1.65             4.45




                         Economic Rate of Return: 13.7%




Annex 5. Table 2: Actual Project Costs by Component (US$ 000)
                                            Appraisal
Component                                   Estimate         Actual

                                            ($ million)      ($ million)


A. Development and Implementation of
General Cadastre System                     19.7             20.9


B. Development and Implementation of Land10.4
Registration System                                          6.7


C. Institutional Strengthening              2.4              4.8



                                              39

Physical contingencies                      1.6
Price contingencies                         3.2


Total Project Costs                         37.3               32.4




Annex 5. Table 3: Actual Project Costs by Year in Constant 2006 Terms (US$ million)



Item                        1998    1999      2000      2001     2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  TOTAL



 A    Project Costs in
      Current Terms          0.35    0.69      0.79       0.95    2.73  5.92  3.56  2.84 14.53  32.37


 B    Consumer Price
      Index (1) (2)          94.7    96.7     100.0     102.8    104.5 106.8 109.7 113.4 115.3


 C    Deflators              1.22    1.19      1.15       1.12    1.10  1.08  1.05  1.02  1.00


 D    Project Costs in
      Constant 2006          0.43    0.82      0.91       1.06    3.00  6.39  3.74  2.90 14.53  33.78
      Terms




 (1)  Source: IMF-International Financial Statistics: April 2006.
 (2)  For year 2006, the average Jan.-Feb. has been used.




                                               40

Annex 5. Table 4: Total Project Cost and Disbursement (US$ million)¹


                                      Disbursement                Project Costs
                                      WB            GOR           Total


A. Appraisal                          25.5          11.8          37.3


B. Actual                             24.6          7.8           32.4


Actual as % of Appraisal              96.5%         66.1%         86.9%



US$ 879.537 from the loan, were not used
¹See details in table 2


   Annex 5. Table 5: ANCPI-Cashflow 2005


   Inflow                                                                 (Ron '000)
                        A. Income from Services
                           Change From Agricultural to Construction Land  3,970
                           Cadastre                                       37,351
                           Land Book                                      161,669
                           Other                                          894
                           Sub total                                      203,884



                        B. Carry Over from 2004
                           Agricultural Taxes                             29,019
                           From Public Institutions                       19,624
                           Sub total                                      48,643



                        C.Loans (
                        repayable)                                        9,122




                                                41

             D. EU PHARE (Grant)                 348


                                Total Inflow     261,997


Outflow
             A. Staff Salaries                   69,994


             B. Services                         37,158


             C. Investments                      8,744


                                Total Outflow    115,896



Cash Balance                                     146,101




                                42

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title                 Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Bogdan Constantin      Sr Financial
Constantinescu         Management Specia     ECSPS

Vivien Gyuris          Consultant            ECSIE
Lynn C. Holstein       Consultant            ECSSD
Gabriel Ionita         Sr Agricultural Spec. ECSSD
Vladislav Krasikov     Sr Procurement Spec.  ECSPS

Mirela Mart            Financial Management
                       Specialis             ECSPS

Maria Bina Palmisano Consultant              ECSSD
Ireneusz M. SmolewskiSr Procurement Spec.    ECSPS
Victoria Stanley       Operations Officer    ECSSD
Rumyana Tonchovska Consultant                ECSSD


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No.    Date ISR                                              Actual Disbursements
       Archived               DO                   IP             (USD M)
1   01/08/1998         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       0.00
2   06/18/1998         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       0.00
3   11/09/1998         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       0.13
4   03/24/1999         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       0.53
5   11/29/1999         Satisfactory         Unsatisfactory                     0.90
6   06/19/2000         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       1.13
7   06/30/2000         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       1.29
8   12/17/2000         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       1.64
9   12/18/2000         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       1.73
10 06/29/2001          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       2.27
11 12/19/2001          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       2.42
12 06/27/2002          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       3.69
13 09/16/2002          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       3.69
14 01/28/2003          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       4.62
15 06/10/2003          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       6.91
16 12/08/2003          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       8.38
17 01/21/2004          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                       9.01
18 06/23/2004          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                      10.80
19 09/02/2004          Satisfactory         Satisfactory                      11.00



                                            43

20 05/12/2005          Satisfactory      Moderately
                                       Satisfactory                             12.28

21 06/29/2005          Moderately        Moderately
                     Satisfactory      Satisfactory                             12.28

22 12/08/2005          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           13.80
23 05/30/2006          Satisfactory      Satisfactory                           17.16


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands
                                             No. of staff weeks  (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                    FY94                                                       142.46
                    FY95                                                        89.67
                    FY96                                                        11.85
                    FY97                                                        33.32
                    FY98                                                       102.77
                    FY99                                                         0.00
                    FY00                                                         0.00
                    FY01                                                         0.00
                    FY02                                                         0.00
                    FY03                                                         0.00
                    FY04                                                         0.00
                    FY05                                                         0.00
                    FY06                                                         0.00
                    FY07                                                         0.00
                                     Total:                                    380.07
Supervision/ICR
                    FY94                                                         0.00
                    FY95                                                         0.00
                    FY96                                                         0.00
                    FY97                                                         0.00
                    FY98                                                        39.11
                    FY99                                                        77.64
                    FY00                                     33                 91.35
                    FY01                                     17                 44.02
                    FY02                                     17                 96.28
                    FY03                                     20                 67.94
                    FY04                                     22                101.56
                    FY05                                     24                128.40
                    FY06                                     17                 97.57




                                         44

Total:    154    764.80




    45

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
Entry:                  Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Implementing
                                          Agency/Agencies:  Satisfactory

Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory      Performance:      Satisfactory




                                         46

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                       47

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  48

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Comments from the National Agency for Cadastre and Real Estate Publicity
(ANCPI)

The Report is in fact a result of excellent communication among WB team, TA and
ANCPI/ PMU during the project. It is also about transparency and good will while
working in the benefit of Romanian society, different nowadays, about 12 years apart
from the first WB appraisal mission.

The Agency management finds the report to be realistic in both implementation and
sustainability terms and also recognizes the valuable information presented, especially in
the assessment chapters.

The Agency management appreciates the direct and concise approach of the project
report in relation to the length of the implementation phase started in November 1998.

Also the report contains a sheer presentation of the facts accompanied with relevant
figures there are a few issues considered to be outlined.

There is no doubt that the Agency itself is the greatest achievement of the project. A
country-wide organization, self-financed, client oriented and transparent to the public.
Inside this technical oriented organization with strong surveying roots there is a new
professional group with different background-legal, part of them former land book or
inscription/ transcription officers. We called them registrars following the international
practice and they are responsible for registration of the property rights. The registrar
profession has been officially recognized by the government of Romania and there is also
a career path starting at operational level (assistant registrar), technical decision level
(registrar) and management level (chief registrar). We consider this to be a great outcome
of the project since these people working in inappropriate conditions for decades have a
respected social status on market labor.

Agency monitoring and evaluation activities were practically developed with the project.
A rather poor set of data were collected from the offices and presented in a non-
structured manner to the management, most of the time impossible to use for decisions.
Currently the "educated-guess" based system it is replaced by a strong monitoring and
evaluation system developed on the project one with clearly defined indicators. Also
there is a special department in charge with collection and processing of the data,
previously gathered by different units at the central level of the Agency. The credit for
this goes to the WB specialists and we strongly believe that their work was not done for
nothing.

During the project there was always a group of decision makers missing. It is about
people able to provide advice and sometimes decisions on land administration/ land
policy issues. Sustained efforts have been done by presenting workshops, training and
now already well-known WB video conferences. The Agency management took part to



                                              49

all of these events and we consider that sufficient awareness has been raised at high
decision level in ministries and also to political level in order to envisage creation of such
a working group.

Project sustainability is guaranteed by several investments to follow in land
administration realm. The next World Bank project to start next year it is only one step
forward. The Government of Romania approved another to significant projects:
    · A general cadastre and land registration 30 million Euro investment in four (4)
        judet (land book conversion, ortophotomaping and general cadastre) for 2007.
    · A plan for general cadastre and land registration 1 billion Euro investment 2007-
        2020 financed for five (5) years, including the next World Bank project (2007-
        2012).

It is definitely a great step forward since it is the first time in the last eighty (80) years,
the Romanian Government finance systematic cadastre and land registration/ land
adjudication.

A great deal of work lays ahead of us for the next decade and we would like to thank you
for the long term support and trust in our skills and capacity to create a new and modern
organization.




                                               50

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    51

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document, November 10, 1997 (Report No. 17058-RO)
Loan Agreement, January 23, 1998 (Loan No. 4258-RO)
Supervision Aide Memoires and ISRs
Project Monitoring Reports (qualitative and quarterly data)
Project Completion Report




                                              52

53

