Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY              FILE  COI'Y
Report No. 2735a-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
March 26, 1980
Energy D)epartment
Petroleum Projects Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          Moroccan Dirham (Dh)
Pre-1980         1980
US$1.00                                Dh 4.00          Dh 3.70
Dh 1.00                                US$0.25          US$0.27
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I ton                                     2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)      2                   0.6 miles
1 square kilometsr (km )                  0.4 square miles
1 cubic meter (m )                        6.29 barrels (Bbl)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRPM                             Bureau de Recherches et
Participations Minieres
GCA                              Gaffney, Cline and Associates
(Exploration Consultants, U.K.
MEM                              Ministry of Energy and Mines



MOROCCO                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Brief and Glossary on Petroleum Exploration                               i and ii
I.   THE ENERGY SECTOR ............ ..............................           1
Energy Balance .1.........                     ..         .        1
Sources of Energy .................................                2
Energy Consumption . .......................... . .4
Energy Policy .5....... .                     .....5
Sector Investment.                                                 5
Sector  Organization   . ...................... . ........ o.      6
II.  THE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION SECTOR...                                     7
Overview   ...... o ......  o..... oo................. o...........  7
Petroleum Legislation. . .                                         7
History of Exploration.                                            7
Petroleum Prospects 9. . .....               .       .......9
Doukkala Basin ............o  ......                              12
Hauts Plateaux Basin. . .                                         12
Boudnib Basin                     .... 12
Deep Riff Basin.        ... . ...... .... . ... ....              12
Essaouira Basin  .... . ... ........            .  . .            12
Role of the Bank.                     ..     ........             13
III. THE BORROWER ..  o...  .o.....  ...o  ..o.  .,14
History                       ..... .. 14
Statutory Organization and Functions           .    .    .14
Management and Functional Structure . .                           15
Accounts  and  Audit   .... ................... . ...........     17
IV.  THE PROJECT .... . .... o............ o .... ..                        17
Objectives . .                                                    17
Project Description ....o....o.....o................. o.          18
The Exploration Program             . . .18
Master Work Program              . . .18
Initial Work Program ...                            .. .19
Subsequent Work Programs              . . .20
Exploration Equipment ......           .... ... .... .....       22
Technical Assistance ...    .       ..o.....o........... ..       22
Status of Project      Preparation ......... ..............       23
This report was prepared by P. Moulin and I. Zurayk and is based on information
obtained during two missions to Morocco in March/April and August 1979, and
from reports submitted by the consultants GCA and A. Dumestre..
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Elank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                               Page No.
Cost Estimates .......       ...................................     24
Financial Plan .............. ...........................            26
Lending Arrangements . ............................ ......           26
Project Implementation and Management ........ ..........            27
Procurement .......................        .....................     27
Disbursement .............. ............................ .           28
Environmental Impact ...................................             29
Reporting Requirements .................................             29
Project Risk ..................         .........................    29
V.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ......         .....................................     29
Past Finances .......    .       ...................................  29
Assets ..................................................            30
Capitalization ....... ..................        ................    31
Past Earnings ..........................................             31
Past Financing .................................    ........ .       31
Future Finances ........................................             32
VI.  PROJECT EVALUATION ....... ...............        ....................     34
Project Benefits ..            .................................. . .  34
Least Cost Program .................    ..     ..................    35
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ...........................................             35
ANNEXES
1.1  Production of Hydrocarbons in Morocco
3.1  Activity of the Principal Branches of BRPM
4.1  Methodology Used in Prospect Evaluation
4.2  An Evaluation of Petroleum Exploration Prospects and Strategy
for the Essaouira Area (Report from Gaffney, Cline and Associates)
4.3  The Essaouira Basin:  Assessment of Prospect Values
4.4  A. Dumestre's Comments on Gaffney & Cline's Report
4.5  Bank's Geologic Panel:  Assessment of the Exploration
Program Proposed for the Morocco Project
4.6  Work Program for the Initial Period
4.7  Assumptions on Project Cost Estimates
4.8  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements



Brief and Glossary on Petroleum Exploration
1.        Hydrocarbons are generated by living "debris" that have fallen on
the seafloor and have been covered by layers of sediment. As thick sediments
with organic content ("source" rocks) progressively sink and eventually
fold and fracture, the hydrocarbons migrate upwards until they are trapped in
"reservoir" rocks properly structured and sealed by impermeab:Le "cover" rocks.
However, hydrocarbon generation depends on many environmental factors and only
a fraction of hydrocarbons generated over time accumulate in sizeable quanti-
ties, whiLle a larger portion either remain in source rocks or migrate to the
surface and disappear.
2.        Therefore, marine sedimentation basins of a certain extent and
thickness promise petroleum prospects a priori, while accumulations of oil and
gas are ithe evidence a posteriori of a successful completion of the generation/
migration/trapping process over geological ages.
3.        However, traps filled by oil and gas are normally scarce "anomalies"
of extemely small dimensions in comparison with the extent and volume of the
containing basin. Their direct finding by well drilling, the only presently
available method to detect the presence of hydrocarbons, would thus have a
very low probability of success and would be excessively hazardous and
expensive.
4.        Exploring for oil and gas is therefore a lengthy search for inform-
ation which leads to the understanding of the generation/migration process and
to the identification of the in-depth geometry of sediments. A step by step
approach is followed using methods in succession of increasing reliability and
also cost:
-    geological survey (pre-reconnaissance) to identify and select
potentially promising basins or areas within basins,
-    large-grid geophysical surveys (reconnaissance) consisting
mainly of field or airborne magnetometry and gravimetry, and
seismic lines, associated with a few stratigraphic wells (wildcat)
to obtain a better correlation of data, with the view to developing
"leads" and identifying "prospects" on selected areas,
-    detailed seismic surveys of the most promising prospects to
delineate structural traps, and eventually
-    well drilling to prove the presence of hydrocarbons in these
traps.
After a discovery is made, reservoir conditions and field reserves are
appraised by further drilling and production tests to assess whether develop-
ment wotuld be feasible under given economic conditions.
5.        In reality, these activities overlap, and the approach applies either
to unexplored basins or to deeper horizons in a basin where only shallower
sediments have been explored.  Over past decades, exploration efforts were



- ii -
concentrated on shallow depth objectives whose exploration was relatively
inexpensive and could be carried out with existing techniques. As time
passed and techniques improved, exploration has moved to more difficult
prospects in new basins as well as to deeper horizons of previously explored
basins, where more costly exploration is now justified by world shortage of
petroleum resources and prevailing prices.
6.        Although discoveries have been made and will continue to be made
early in the exploration cycle, exploration in its initial phases remains
essentially an obstinate quest for information, for which a price has to be
paid. In this respect, exploratory drilling and seismic surveys are comple-
mentary in bringing about information, and each well has informative merits,
irrespective of its success or failure to strike oil.
7.        When exploration results fall below initial expectations, the
decision to abandon an area does not mean that there is no potential for oil,
but rather that this potential is currently considered by the operator less
attractive than alternative prospects. Many important discoveries have been
made on areas which had been relinquished by reputable companies, mainly
because a new operator had a different interpretation of the results produced
by previous exploration.
8.        Exploration programs have consequently to be assessed and designed
in view of their main objective - developing information or finding oil -
which to a large extent depends on the stage of past exploration and is a
function of the resources available to the operator.
a.   The rationale for exploring new basins or deeper horizons is to
clarify their potential and develop "leads" for further detailed
exploration for oil. Areas to be explored are selected on the
basis of geological/geophysical surveys and initial wells, if any,
and on the likely evidence that all the elements which are necessary
for the generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons are present
(source, reservoir and cover rocks). Programs are therefore
designed to maximize the collection of valuable information within
a given budget. When the information gathered is sufficiently
attractive, then the operator will start looking for oil, either
by himself or with partners.
b.   Exploration for oil and gas in already known basins and horizons
pursues objectives and follows leads previously identified. Objec-
tives are structural traps or extensions of trends which are produc-
ing locally or nearby. In this process, operators move generally
from prospects which have the highest "expected economic value"
towards more and more marginal prospects, whose development may be
justified by the existence of infrastructure.
It should be pointed out, however, that even in a producing basin other
objectives or deeper sediments than the productive horizons may justify a new
round of exploration of the "information collection" type until these
prospects have been proved productive or have to be abandoned.



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Balance
1.01      At present Morocco's main indigenous energy resources are coal and
hydropower. Known oil deposits are nearly depleted and proven gas reserves
are small. Large deposits of oil shales exist, but it is not clear that their
development is justified economically with present technologies. Uranium,
directly mined or extracted from phosphoic acid, could become a source for
power generation in the future.
1.02      As a result of the present limits on the availability of indigenous
resources, domestically produced energy can currently provide Morocco with at
most 20 percent of its primary energy needs, leaving the country dependent for
the significant balance on the import of oil and oil products. Unless further
exploration can result in newly discovered oil and gas resources in the near
term, the strain on the economy caused by oil import bills is expected to
become increasingly severe for the better part of the next deciade.
ENERGY BALANCE 1978
(Thousands tons oil equivalent) 1/
Production                                Consumption
Coal                           463        Coal                              459
Hydroelectricity               368        Hydroelectricity                  368
Crude Oil                       23        Refinery Losses                   170
Natural Gas                     62        Petroleum Products              3,331
Natural Gas                       62
Total Production               916        Total Domestic Consumption   4,390
Imports                                   Exports
Coal                            27        Coal                               31
Crude Oil                    3,222        Stock Change                      551
Petroleum Products             807
Total Imports                4,056
Total Availability           4,972        Total Use                       4,972
1/   1 tcn petroleum products = 1 Toe; 1 ton imported coal- 0.66 Toe;
1 ton Jerada anthracite = 0.56 3Toe; 1 ton crude oil = 0.93 Toe;
1,000 Kwh = 0.26 Toe; 1,000 Nm  natural gas = 0.76 Toe.



-2-
Sources of Energy
Coal
1.03      Anthra-ite coal at Jerada constitutes at present Morocco's main
indigenous fossil fuel resource. The Jerada mine has estimated probable
reserves of about 36 million tons (20 million Toe), and the coal is of
relatively high calorific value in most part of the deposits (6,600 to 7,000
kcal/kg); but no other economic deposits have as yet been discovered. Annual
production at Jerada has increased from about 570,000 tons in 1972 to about
830,000 tons in 1978 and will be raised, with the expansion of the mine now
underway to a level of 1 million tons per year by 1981. Current production
supplies about 10% of domestic demand for primary energy, 90% of the coal
being consumed in the generation of electric power.
Electric Power
1.04      Morocco's hydroelectric resources are developed in three main basins
of the Moulouya, Sebou, and Oum R'bia rivers, where existing hydropower
facilities currently yield an average annual generation of about 1,470 GWh.
Future development of potential hydrosites is constrained by the short rainy
seasons, and the rapid growth of Irrigation which is given precedence over
hydropower in water use. Through loans for irrigation and power, the Bank has
helped finance a Government Master Plan for the Oum R'bia river (Loans 936,
1201, 1299, and 1416-MOR), and the Sidi Cheho Al Massira dam project including
a 120 MW hydropower plant to be commissioned in early 1980 (Loan 1299-MOR).
In addition, Morocco is being assisted by consultants financed by the Bank
(Loan 936-MOR) in completing feasibility studies and preliminary design for a
1984-1990 hydro developments program expected to add another 1,400 GWh to
current hydropower generation capability.
1.05      Apart from small captive plants linked to industrial enterprises and
isolated diesel generators serving remote villages, thermal plants intercon-
nected with the hydro plants in the present power system yielded an annual
generation of 2,500 GWh in 1978. By the end of 1978, the total installed
capacity of the interconnected network was 1,063 MW, of which 396 MW (37%)
was in hydro capacity and 667 MW (63%) in thermal capacity; the 1978-83
program for the development of thermal generation should increase thermal
capacity by 900 MW by 1983. For transmissions a 225-KV grid is progressively
replacing the former 150-KV system, and a 60-KV sub-network transports energy
to the distribution system at 22 KV. A village electrification project (the
1979-83 phase of a 15-year national rural electrification program) partly
financed by the Bank (Loan 1695-MOR) is expected to extend electric service
from the national grid to approximately 220 new centers in the Moroccan
provinces.
Oil and Natural Gas
1.06      Whereas in the past domestically-produced oil made small but signi-
ficant contributions to Moroccan energy balances, oil fields are almost
depleted now and domestic production is continuing to decline (Annex 1.1).
Daily production reached a maximum of 3,000 barrels per day (BD) in 1963, a
level sufficient to meet 15 percent of a requirement for oil of about 20,000
BD. By 1978, an oil production of about 486 BD, deriving in most part from
the Sidi Rhalem field in the Essaouira Basin (para. 2.19(a)) accounted for



- 3 -
less than one percent of a requirement of about 67,000 BD. The past decades
of exploration had resulted in small additions to gas reserves (para. 2.19(a)).
However, at an annual level of production of about 81 million cubic meters
(62,000 Toe), gas accounts at present for only 1.3 percent of total energy
demand.
Oil Shales
1.07      Large undeveloped resources of oil shales exist in Timahdit (in the
Atlas mountain south of Meknes), Tarfaya (on the southern Atlantic coast),
Tangiers and other areas in Morocco. In Timahdit, proven oil shale reserves
with a yield of 100 liters per ton (l/t) amount to about 1.7 billion tons, and
proven andl probable reserves with a yield of 74 l/t to 10 billion tons.
Tarfaya reserves with a yield of 80 1/t are of the same order of magnitude.
Total oil shale reserves in Morocco could contain over a billion tons of crude
oil equivalent.
1.08      Since 1975 Morocco has carried out an expanding program of field
surveys, feasibility studies and experiments on oil-shale extraction, direct
burning for power plants, and oil distillation from shales either in surface
retorts or in-situ. Industrial methods have been evaluated under contracts
with such process holders as Tosco, Union Oil, Paraho, Klockner Lurgi, Babcock,
Occidental and Neftechimpromekport.
1.09      Four development alternatives are being now actively explored (i)
direct burning in a 250 megawatt power plant which will be erected in
Timahdit with technical assistance from the USSR, (ii) mining extraction and
surface distillation in an industrial pilot plant for which a call for bids on
final process and construction specifications is under preparation with the
assistance of the U.S. DOE, (iii) in-situ distillation in pre-mined underground
chambers, for which a research and development contract has been signed with
Occidental, and (iv) a labor-intensive scheme for surface extraction and
distillation in artisanal retorts, which could be implemented on several
locations even with small reserves throughout the country.
1.10      The first three alternatives would be highly capital intensive, and
would invrolve technologies not yet proven on an industrial scale.
Nuclear Fuel
1.11      Morocco' s large reserves of phosphate of about 50 billion tons are
estimated to have a uranium content of 150-200 grams per ton. Extraction
would, however, be uneconomic with present technology. The Government is
exploring the possibilities of using the excract for fueling a nuclear plant,
but progress has been slow and success in the immediate future is unlikely.
No commercially exploitable deposits of primary uranium have so far been
discoveried.
Solar Energy
1.12      Morocco is favourably situated for the development of solar
energy. Average insolation exceeds 3,000 hours per year, and on average the



- 4-
2
country receives around 170 kcal/cm . Assessment of potential uses for solar
energy will commence after the Institute for Solar Energy studies at Marrakech
is operational. The institute would be assisted financially and technically
by USAID. However, until the technology is fully developed, the use of solar
energy would probably be limited to supporting other conventional energy
resources.
1.13      The future development of wind energy in Morocco is unlikely except
on a small scale; moreover, known geothermal anomalies are mostly isolated
from main centers of population and are all low temperature sources of limited
use.
Energy Consumption
Past Trends
1.14      Despite an increase at an average annual rate of 8% over the period
between 1961-1978, Morocco's per capita consumption of energy remains at the
lower end of the international energy consumption scale (at 0.18 Toe/capita
in 1976 compared to an international average of 1.31 Toe/capita for that
year). The upward trend in demand has nevertheless reflected the country's
move towards a more energy intensive pattern of consumption. This pattern has
been characterized chiefly by the declining share of hydropower in total
primary energy supplies from about 18% in 1964 to less than 9% in 1978, and a
marked shift in favor of oil, the share of which in total demand for primary
energy rose from 64 percent in 1961 to 79 percent in 1978 and is projected at
nearly 90 percent by 1990.
1.15      The declining importance of domestic crude production, which is now
almost negligible, has left Morocco highly dependent on imported oil. Oil is
mainly imported as crude for refining in two refineries at Mohammedia and at
Sidi Kacem with a combined capacity of 5 million tons per year in 1978. Motor
fuels (gasoline, aviation fuel, gas and diesel oil) have remained since 1961
the biggest single component of the domestic petroleum products market. In
1977, these fuels accounted for 50% of a total petroleum products consumption
of about 3.2 million tons, with fuel oil and kerosene (43%) and LPG (7%)
representing the balance. Four industries, phosphates (18%), power generation
(25%), cement (20%), and sugar (12%), account at present for approximately
three quarters of the fuel oil consumed. Between 1962 and 1977, average
annual demand for fuel oil increased about 10% per year, for motor fuels about
7% per year, for kerosene about 2% per year and for LPG (which is increasingly
substituting kerosene) about 15% per year.
Pricing
1.16      Prices for all types of energy are fixed by the Government.  Except
for gasoline, the price of petroleum products remained unchanged from 1962
until the end of 1975. Throughout this period, the Government subsidized,
through a compensation account, the prices of fuel oil, gas oil and kerosene,
which are typically used for industrial and low income domestic purposes, and
levied special taxes on gasoline. Until the end of 1973, the cost of subsidies
was more than offset by revenue from special taxes. The sharp increase in oil
prices in 1973-74 resulted in large deficits for the compensation account in



- 5 -
1974 and 1975. A revised policy aimed at increased conservation led to a
sharp increase in the prices of petroleum products at the end of 1975. The
deficit declined from $115 million in 1975 to $23 million in 1976. Further
price increases, including the last one in July 1979, have resulted in the
elimination of price subsidies for all petroleum products except LPG. The
Government also plans to eliminate existing subsidies in the power-subsector
and has agreed to review with the Bank all future changes in the tariff
structure (loan 1695-MOR).
Future Trends
1.17      Morocco's demand for primary energy is expected to grow at an
average annual rate of 10% over the next decade, reflecting increased emphasis
on industrialization, on the mechanization of agriculture and on the Govern-
ment's efforts to improve the access of the rural population to energy.
Because of the constraints on future development of coal and hydro resources,
the only supply option in the near-term is oil either imported or domestically
produced. Aside from nuclear power and marginal possibilities in non-
conventional sources, the development of oil-shale resources represent the
country's only other supply option in the medium and longer-term.
1.18      Consequently, unless new indigenous resources of oil and gas are
discovered in the near-term, continued increase in demand as estimated together
with the probable rise in world oil prices, will present even greater diffi-
culties for a country whose short and medium term balance of payments problems
are acute. In 1977, oil imports amounted to DH 1.7 billion (US$425 million),
representing about 70 percent of phosphate exports, Morocco's main source of
foreign exchange, and 12 percent of total imports. Given the limits on supply
of other indigenous resources, in the absence of new oil or gas discoveries in
the near future, the major share of the increase in consumption will have to be
covered by additional imports of oil. The estimated cost of oil imports has
been projected, on this basis, to rise from DH 2.7 billion in 1980 to DH 3.8
billion by 1982, an increase of nearly 25 percent in two years.
Energy Policy
1.19      In order to decrease the country's dependence on imported oil and
ensure, in the absence of alternatives, a minimum supply of energy for future
needs, the Government continues to give priority to (i) the acceleration of
exploration for oil and gas, (ii) the acquisition of technology for the
development of oil-shale deposits, (iii) increased conservation in the con-
sumption of energy by maintaining prices of energy resources in line with
their opportunity cost to the economy.
Sector Inivestment
1.20      During the Third Plan period (1973-77), total investment in the
energy sector amounted to DH 3.2 billion, more than three times the figure for
the previous Five-Year Plan. Of this investment, 40 percent was spent for
development of the power subsector, 36 percent for increasing petroleum
refining and distribution capacity, and 8% for increasing domiestic coal
production. The balance (16%), or DH 521 million, was spent on the exploration



- 6 -
for oil and gas. Recent economic problems have led the Government to adopt
austerity plans which cut substantially the level of its envisioned investments
in all energy sector activities. In order to maintain a pace of exploration
consistent with the country's perceived potential, the Government has been
keenly aware of the necessity to promote increased foreign investment in any
country-wide 'uture exploration plan.
Sector Organization
1.21      The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for overall
planning and policy making in the sector. It also supervises several public
(or semi-public) enterprises which manage the sector's key activities, most
notably: (i) the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM) in
oil and gas exploration, the Societe Anonyme Marocaine de l'Industrie du
Raffinage (SAMIR) and the 50% BRPM owned Societe Cherifienne des Petroles
(SCP) in refining, the Societe Nationale des Produits Petrolier (SNPP) in the
distribution of petroleum products, and the 100% BRPM Owned Charbonnages
Nord-Africains (CNA) operator of the Jerada coal mine. It also has admin-
istrative control over the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE), the public
enterprise responsible for most of the electricity generated and transmitted
in Morocco.
1.22      The Ministry was created at the end of 1977 with a view to consol-
idating the decision-making process in the energy sector in one Ministry. the
Ministry has two main operating departments--Energy and Mines; the Energy
Department has three divisions--oil, electric power and new sources of
energy. Exploration and production of oil and gas is currently dominated by
the BRPM whose responsibilities include not only (i) the exploration for oil
and gas either on its own or through joint ventures with foreign companies;
and (ii) the production of small gas fields discovered on its permits; but
also (iii) the prospection of all mineral sources except phosphates; and (iv)
the management of the Government portfolio in about two dozen mining firms
(including CNA), and a refinery (SCP). Of the two refineries in Morocco, one
at the port of Mohammedia (SAMIR), is 100% owned by the Government with a
refining capacity of 2.2 million tons per annum which is now being increased
to 5.7 million tons, and the other (SCP), is located inland at Sidi Kacem with
a 0.8 million ton capacity. Distribution of oil products, either imported or
locally refined is carried out by several companies which are joint affiliates
of international oil companies and of the SNPP, the public enterprise respons-
ible for regulating the distribution and consumption of oil products throughout
the country.
1.23      In the power subsector, ONE generates approximately 90% of the
electic power in the country, transmits it Lo the load centers, and distributes
about 40% of its production outside the large cities. Distribution of
power in large urban areas is the responsibility of 13 Regies which are
autonomous public enterprises under the supervision of the Ministry of the
Interior (MI). MI also participates in formulating the plans for the develop-
ment of infrastructural facilities in the rural areas, including village
electrification whose implementation is entrusted to ONE. A Government
appointed interministerial committee is currently drawing up plans for the
streamlining of responsibilities and improvement of control over the power
subsector; and has undertaken through several loan agreements to periodically
exchange views on these matters with the Bank.



- 7 -
II. THE PETROLEUM EXPLORATION SECTOR
Overview
2.01      Oil and gas exploration has been going on in Morocco since 1928.
Before independence one French company Societe Cherifienne des Petroles (SCP),
was the on:Ly company active in petroleum exploration. After independence a
petroleum code was enacted in 1958. Exploration has since been carried out by
both the state agency, Bureau de Recherches et Participations Minieres (BRPM)
and by foreign oil companies. Since then the pace of foreign investments has
varied widely and the Government has reacted by adjusting its exploration
investments accordingly. The present economic difficulties present a new
challenge for Morocco's efforts to develop its indigenous petroleum resources.
The Government is now seeking ways to raise the overall petroleum exploration
effort to an appropriate level.
Petroleum Legislation
2.02      Under the petroleum code, private investors are granted exclusive
exploration rights awarded for successive four-year periods, and, in case of
commercial discovery, a fifty-year development concession.  However, clear
preference has been given to those foreign investors who offered to the state
agency a participation in an exploration/development venture of at least 34%.
As a result, foreign investment in oil exploration has been almost exclusively
associated with BRPM. Under 50%-50% joint venture agreements with BRPM,
foreign partners are liable for all exploration expenditure, half the develop-
ment costs, a royalty on oil of 12.5% and on gas of 5%, and income taxes of
55%. In case of discovery and development, these agreements imply a minimum
split of about 20%-80% of profit from production in favor of the State.
Several foreign oil companies have taken part in oil exploration
under such arrangements at one time or another. Only one group led by Petrofina
(Apex) under a joint venture with BRPM has applied for a development concession
in the Rharb basin in 1970. BRPM, either directly or through its subsidiary
SCP 1/, has also been awarded exploration permits and development concessions.
History of Exploration
2.03      Prior to independence, SCP explored mainly the shallow-depth horizons
of the Rh,arb basin, where it discovered a series of small oil and gas fields
and drilled more than a thousand development wells. All fields discovered at
that time are now depleted or are nearing depletion; however, Apex is still
exploring in the area.
2.04      After independence, exploration extended to other basins, first
onshore, then offshore, mostly through joint venture agreements entered into
between ]BRPM and several foreign investors:
1/   After independence BRPM took the majority share in SCP, which, since
the mid-60's, has become an instrument of BRPM's policy, mostly for
production and refining, but not for exploration.



- 8 -
(a) Onshore, the first permit was awarded in 1958 to the joint venture
AGIP-BRPM in the Tarfaya region. This was followed by agreements
between BRPM and Petrofina in 1961 and 1964, AGIP in 1963 and
Aquitaine in 1970 and 1973, among others; and
(b) Offshore exploration started in 1967 with the award to Esso of the
Tarfaya Maritime permits covering 20,000 sq. km. Further agreements
and awards of permits followed so that active permits covered almost
all explorable areas of the Atlantic offshore in the early 1970's.
Between 1958 and 1972, 123 wells of an average depth of 1,750 meters were
drilled onshore and 10 wells of an average depth of 3,300 meters offshore, at
a total cost of about $80 million. In addition $20 million was spent on
geological and geophysical surveys.  During the same period, national invest-
ment remained modest. BRPM limited its activity mainly to supporting Apex and
SCP in their exploration and development of the Rharb and Essaouira basins,
respectively.
2.05      The early 1970's was a turning point in the history of petroleum
exploration in Morocco. Although foreign companies extended their operations
northward along the Atlantic and Mediterranean offshores, this lasted for a
very short period, and they withdrew because of disappointing results. Esso
discovered heavy oil on the Tarfaya offshore permit and reserves in place were
rumored to amount to hundred millions of cubic meters. However, their pro-
duction was not considered economic at the time and Esso subsequently relin-
quished all its offshore rights in Morocco. This coincided with the comple-
tion of general withdrawal of oil companies from offshore exploration in West
Africa. 1/
2.06      The 1973-77 five-year plan provided for US$161 million in exploration
investments, of which BRPM would account for 40%. The overall target was not
achieved, mainly because foreign investments remained below expectations.
1/   Exploration by international oil companies has followed a similar path
in many countries. While withdrawal does indicate that the results were
below expectations, it does not mean that the prospects have been
exhausted. Worldwide exploration follows "cycles" which depend largely
on the ranking of worldwide prospects by oil companies and are influenced
by geological, economic and political considerations, as well as by a
mutual drive between companies.



- 9 -
BRPM's conitribution during the period increased from an initially projected
US$67 million to US$86 million, accounting for 65% of total exploration
expenditures. Over this period, BRPM built up an exploration capability by
acquiring seismic and drilling equipment and training staff. Its efforts
resulted in the discovery of the Toukimt and N'Dark fields, which opened up
new prospects in the Essaouira Basin.
2.07       Encouraged by this success, BRPM had proposed an ambitious program
for petroleum exploration at a total cost of about $340 million over the
1978-82 period, of which foreign partners were expected to provide about
$75 million, mainly for offshore work. Public resources to BRPM for explora-
tion onshore were to exceed $250 million, or an average of $50 million per
year. BRPM intended to explore on 11 permits onshore using all its own
equipment (four seismic drilling crews and four drilling rigs), in addition
to two to three rented drilling rigs.
2.08       Economic problems led the Government to curtail the 1978-82 plan.
Under the approved 1978-80 Three-Year Austerity Plan, BRPM resources for the
petroleum sector were reduced from $50 to $15 million per annum. BRPM had
to reformulate its activity accordingly. While seeking commercial credit to
develop tlhe Toukimt field (at an estimated cost of $3 million), it limited
exploration to four permits, using only two drilling rigs (one heavy, one
medium heavy) and one seismic party part-time. The balance of BRPM equipment
was either put on standby, offered under services contract to Apex and
Phillips, or used for water exploration and production.
2.09       The slow-down in foreign investment followed by the severe curtail-
ment of BRPM activity has taken place as Morocco felt the consequences of the
increase in world oil prices. Since indigenous oil or gas production offers
the only chance in the short and medium terms of reducing the country's
dependence on imports, Morocco is seeking to re-establish the overall explora-
tion effort at a level compatible with the petroleum potential of the country.
Efforts are being made to attract new foreign investors; their success has
been moderate to date. Two joint venture contracts have been signed with
Phillips Petroleum and Societe Nationale Elf Aquitaine (SNEA) for exploration
rights in northern Morocco in 1978 and early 1979, respectively, and Occidental
is to confirm an option for permits on the Atlantic offshore. The Government
still plans to make similar arrangements for other sedimentary basins as soon
as possible.
Petroleum Prospects
2.10       Published estimates place Morocco's ultimate recoverable reserves
in a range between 10 and 30 million tons of oil equivalent, when about
seven million tons of reserves have been discovered so far, of which three
million tons have already been produced in the Rharb and Essaouira basins.
Such estimates refer mainly to the few long explored areas and underquote
other lairge, less explored prospects of the country.



- 10 -
2.11      The few producing areas which are at a relatively advanced stage of
exploration and development still offer possibilities of discovery or produc-
tion of petroleum reserves. Their expected economics however appear to be too
marginal to be attractive to foreign oil companies. Such possibilities exist
in the followino basins:
(a)   The Rharb basin, where SCP drilled extensively with fair
success and where Apex is still exploring;
(b)   The Tarfaya Maritime permit, where in the late 1960's
Esso discovered and abandoned large deposits of heavy
oil (para. 2.05), whose development now may be worth
re-evaluating at current prices;
(c)   The Essaouira basin, where first SCP, then BRPM, dis-
covered five oil and gas fields and identified a dozen
small structures in the Jurassic horizons which remain
to be drilled. New discoveries, even small ones, could
be produced quickly and brought to the market through
existing transportation facilities, thus minimizing
development costs.
2.12      Overall, Morocco has a dozen structurally distinct sedimentary
basins, which extend over a total surface of 400,000 sq. km., of which 55,000
are offshore, i.e. in water depth of less than 200 meters. All have geologi-al
characteristics which normally provide opportunities for hydrocarbon generation
and accumulation. However, despite past exploration efforts, most of these
basins have not had their potential properly assessed. The technology avail-
able prior to the mid-70's (especially seismic methods) did not make it
possible to reliably identify deeper prospects, and the price of oil prevailing
before 1973/74 did not encourage exploration in offshore and remote onshore
areas. As a result, in many areas the average drilling density has been
about one well per 2,000 sq. km., three out of four structures delineated by
seismic survey have not yet been drilled, a number of wells were completed
above targets, and several of the earlier exploration programs were terminated
and permits released even though alternative "leads" for new rounds of explor-
ation existed. 1/ Given these facts, the improved technology, especially in
seismic surveying, and the Increase In the price of oil, experts now view
Morocco's potential more favorably than in the past and believe that the
country could attract renewed foreign exploration investments, if additional
information on the value of the prospects were to be made available.
2.13      It is clear therefore that, despite the preceeding 50 years of
intermittent exploration, a large part of the hydrocarbon potential of Morocco
remains to be assessed. In designing a strategy for future exploration, the
1/   This explains why the BEICIP study, which forms the basis of "A Program
to Accelerate Petroleum Production in Developing Countries" approved
by the Board of Executive Directors in January 1979, attributes to
Morocco "poor prospects and low potential resources", while recommending
"re-appraisal of past exploration data and assistance to BRPM" on the
basis that "possibilities onshore remained to be further explored."



- 11 -
Government of Morocco (GOM) recognized that public funds, even if they are
supplemented by Bank loans and/or contributions from other sources, would be
insufficient to maintain a level of exploration commensurate with the number
of prospects remaining to be assessed. The only realistic strategy was
therefore to attract foreign capital in those basins which still hold the
promise of large reserves and potentially high returns. This has been
confirmed by the recent agreements signed by BRPM with Philipps and SNEA for
blocks where previous geophysical work carried out by BRPM had indicated
interesting exploration leads.
2.14       GOM exploration strategy which makes use of BRPM capability
is therefore two-pronged:
(i) BRPM will complete exploration of the areas where discoveries
have already been made and where potential structures, ad-
mittedly small, remain to be drilled, to try to capture
early exploitation opportunities for short-term prcduction
and revenue benefits, and
(ii) BRPM will carry out enough geophysical work and
exploratory drilling in areas where the potential has
not yet been assessed, to develop geological "leads"
and generate interest of foreign investors.
This BRPM exploration effort will be closely supported by GOM. MEM will
assess the expediency of revamping the existing petroleum exploration legis-
lation and related tax regime. Risks and promises of further investment
in every basin so explored by BRPM will then be appraised, and foreign oil
companies will be offered joint venture agreements and fiscaL arrangements
which would reflect the expected economic value of the prospects and could be
attractive enough while preserving legitimate country interests. The main
geological features of the prospective areas onshore, where with Bank support
this exploration strategy will be developed, are summarized below.
Doukkala Basin
2.15       The Doukkala Basin is a 10,000 km  Paleozoic sedimentary basin in
which seven wells were drilled between 1960 and 1977 by Preussag, SNEA
and BRPM to test anticline structures defined by seismic surveys. No commer-
cial field has been discovered to date, although the presence of source,
reservoir and seal rocks and the existence of oil and gas In limited volume
was largely proven. Recent re-assessment of data offers alternative leads
in reef developments of the mid-Devonian age. Prolific discoveries in
similar sediments of the same age were made in Canada. But their exploration
has demonstrated that reefs may be small in extent and thickness, not syste-
maticalLy productive, and would necessitate dense and high q,uality seismic
surveys, followed by repetitive well-drilling.



- 12 -
Hauts Plateaux Basin
2
2.16       The Hauts Plateaux is a very large Mesozoic area (over 30,000 km
spanning the Missour and Guercif Basins) which has been sporadically explored
over the last 15 years by AGIP (from 1963 to 1967) and recently by BRPM.
Results from this exploration have shown the broad lines of the geology in
the area, and, although hydrocarbon indications have been meager, geological
and structural features warrant further investigations. Even limited positive
results would greatly enhance the potential of this area eastward up to where
Phillips and SNEA are now exploring.
Boudnib Basin
2.17      The Boudnib Basin extends on the southern flank of the High Atlas
Mountains. Its exploration would be typical of a "basin reconnaissance
exploration" in the broadest sense. Only limited stratigraphic and struc-
tural information is available, but geological features indicate possible
large anticline prospects. Objectives are the Paleozoic sediments, as
enhanced by gas shows and the Mesozoic sediments which are productive in the
basin of Essaouira.
Deep Riff Basin
2.18      The Deep Riff is the sedimentary substratum that pre-riff "nappes"
have overlapped under orogenic thrust over later geologic eras. This area is
practically unknown since no well has been drilled yet, but geophysical data
have shown structural features worth being further explored.
Essaouira Basin
2
2.19      The 10,000 km  Essaouira basin covers as a geological unit the
present BRPM permits of Essaouira, Agadir and Cap Ghir, and extends offshore.
It is filled with sediments of various geological ages. To date, however,
only onshore shallower horizons of Jurassic age have been explored system-
atically; deeper pre-Jurassic sediments became known only from the last
seismic survey carried out with improved techniques in 1976/77 and from well
bottom data of a few wells eventually completed below the Jurassic objectives.
(a) Jurassic horizons are productive on five fields: Jeer
and Kechoula (gas) and Sidi Rhalem (oil), discovered
by SCP and almost fully depleted; N'Dark (gas with
50% nitrogen content) and Toukimt (gas with condensate)
discovered later by BRP4, the latter being currently
developed for production. Data on in-depth sequence
and geometry of Jurassic horizons onshore are good to
fairly reliable and complete. The 1976/77 seismic
survey has identified more than a dozen structures
of small dimensions still undrilled; they are ready
objectives for further testing of oil or gas accumula-
tion in reservoirs known to be productive in the area.



- 13 -
(b) By contrast, pre-Jurassic sediments are more prospective
objectives; their upper part has been shown to contain gas,
perhaps condensates, but no well has yet been drilled through
their total sequence so that the existence of good reservoir
layers is not proven; in-depth mapping sketched fromi the last
seismic survey indicates the existence of at least e!ight large
anticline structures and other traps. They warrant drilling
and also additional seismic surveys to delineate their exten-
sion and top.
Exploration objectives in the Essaouira Basin are therefore twofold: first,
to complete the assessment of the Jurassic potential which may yield small
accumulations which could be brought to production over a short period of
time and second, to test the pre-Jurassic horizons which could contain larger
accumulations of hydrocarbons.
Role of the Bank
2.20      Morocco provides a typical example of the problems of oil explora-
tion in maiddle income countries. An efficient Government Agency has been
strengthened to supplement the efforts of foreign oil companies whose interest
in Morocco's potential diminished during the 1970s. While BRPM has been
reasonabLy successful, its efficient operation and the size cf its exploration
program depend largely on Government allocations which in periods of economic
austerity are channelled to investments of a less risky nature, thus eliminat-
ing or at least reducing the chances for the country to become less dependent
on imports, although a potential for indigenous supplies of petroleum exists.
For such a situation the participation of the Bank group in the financing
of exploration would ensure, with proper safeguards, that a minimum program
compatible with the quality of the prospects Is carried out. Once sufficient
"leads" have been developed, the presence of the Bank can also be instrumental
in the teview of legal, fiscal and contractual framework for petroleum explora-
tion and in the attraction of foreign capital.
2.21      In the absence of any other viable alternative to improve domestic
energy supply, and with little room for reducing the demand substantially,
without detrimental effect on overall economic development, petroleum explora-
tion is a priority. BRPM needs funds to continue its effort of identifying
prospecl:s which would be attractive to foreign capital and of discovering
reserves which could meet part of the country's domestic energy needs and
would provide an adequate cash flow for future exploration.
2.22      In addition, the Bank will, through technical assistance, improve
the tramsfer of technology in prospect evaluation and drilling management, and
support studies for the development of other energy sources (particularly oil
shale) which could provide a solution to Morocco's energy problems in the
longer run.



- 14 -
III. THE BORROWER
History
3.01       The borrower of the proposed loan, the Bureau de Recherches et
de Participations Minieres (BRPM), was created in 1928 as a State mining
enterprise; however, since 1958 it has developed dual roles as the executing
agency in the exploration for both minerals and petroleum (paras. 2.01-2.02).
BRPM has over the years built up an extensive portfolio of holdings in coun-
trywide mineral operations and in addition holds participatory agreements
with almost all foreign investors in Morocco's petroleum exploration. As a
result BRPM has developed into the most effective instrument available to the
Government for the implementation of public policies related to the develop-
ment of all national mineral and petroleum resources, with the exception of
phosphates.
3.02       BRPM was instituted as a wholly-owned public enterprise by a decree
(Dahir) of December 15, 1928, which has since been complemented and updated
by several others, most notably the decrees of April 14, 1960, and June 30,
1962, which regulate the State's financial control of all public or State-
funded establishments; and that of December 17, 1976, governing BRPM's func-
tions and organization.
Statutory Functions and Organization
3.03       Under its statutes BRPM is authorized to undertake all industrial,
commercial and financial activity compatible with the objective of promoting
the development of indigenous petroleum and non-phosphate mineral deposits.
BRPM can (i) explore for and develop these deposits, (ii) form companies or
take participation in companies which aim at the development of any one of
these resources, (iii) promote any action by others leading to such develop-
ments, and (iv) execute for the accounts of others, work related to this
activity.
3.04       For administrative purposes, BRPM is placed under the tutelage of
the Minister of Energy and Mines, who is Vice-President of its governing
Administrative Council and President of its Committee of Directors. The main
guidelines to operational and financial policy are set by the Council which
is headed by the Prime Minister and includes the Ministers of Energy and
Mines, Finance, Interior, Labor, and Public Works, the Heads of the planning
and economic affairs authorities, and the Director of Energy and Mines.
The Council is assisted by a Committee of Directors constituted from among
the same officials or their representatives, to which is delegated the task
of supervising the implementation of the Council's decisions and the regula-
tion of related matters.



- 15 -
Management and Functional Structure
3.05      The responsibility for the execution of these functions, within
the directives as issued by BRPM's Administrative Council and Committee of
Directors, rests with the General Manager who is assisted by a Secretary
General and seven divisional heads. BRPM's team of senior mana,gers, which
is a well-coordinated, competent and active group, has led the company through
an unprecedented expansion in all lines of its activity in the five-year
period covering Morocco's 1973-77 Plan. BRPM's divisions are organized along
functional lines as described in the following paragraphs.
(i)  Division for Mineral Exploration plans and supervises the
BRPM's own activity in this domain. This division is at
present staffed with more than fifty mineral geologists and
geophysicists. It has managed an annual investment program
in mineral exploration which grew from about $4.0 mi:Llion in
1973 to $12 million in 1977, and in total amounted to $44
million in the 1973-77 Plan period.
(ii)  Division for Mineral Valuation and Research manages ,extensive
laboratories for mineral analysis and undertakes teclhnical and
economic feasibility studies for mineral development. Among
other activities, it has been engaged in an expanding program
of studies and experiments for the development of oil shale
resources.
(iii)  Division for Petroleum Exploration plans and supervises BRPM's
petroleum exploration activity. This division, which would
manage the implementation of the project, has undertaken invest-
ment in these activities amounting to about $83 million during
the period covering the 1973-77 Plan. It is at present staffed
with a number of trained geologists and geophysicists, and has
a large data base covering the results of past exploration in
all areas of the country gathered through its own activity and
the activity of BRPM's foreign partners. The Division has
played a critical role in the negotiation of more than 50 parti-
cipation agreements with foreign oil groups, most notably the
latest; an agreement (signed August 1979) between the BRPM (45%),
SNEA (45%), and SCP (10%), covering a large area in the North
of Morocco. It has had regular access to foreign technical
expertise and services for work related to its dril:Ling and
seismic operations. However, with only one exception (the
hiring of a Forex rig in 1977), it has relied in the last
few years for the execution of its well drilling and seismic
drilling operations on the services of BRPM's Technical Division.
The technical assistance provided for under the proposed project
will strengthen the petroleum exploration division's capacity
(i) to undertake technical and economic appraisal of exploration
prospects, (ii) to supervise and increase the efficiency of
drilling operations, and (iii) to improve the accounting of
exploration costs (para. 4.09).



- 16 -
(iv)  Division for Commercialization and Participations supervises the
BRPM's mineral and petroleum interest in fully or partially-owned
affiliates and in joint ventures, and assists the mineral com-
panies in the marketing of their products. The major share of
BRPM investments represents holdings in mining affiliates whose
cumulative activities span Morocco's non-phosphate mineral-produ-
cing sector (Annex 3.1); BRPM has a 99% ownership of Charbonnages
Nord Africains, producer of the country's indigenous coal (para.
1.21), and a 50% interest in SCP. Since 1968, the SCP has limited
its exploration activity to work done in association with BRPM's
Division for Petroleum Exploration (see (iii)) and other foreign
companies. It derives a small part of its income from a limited
production of gas from the Essaouira region (para. 2.19(a)). Its
main activity consists at present in the operation of its refinery
complex at Sidi Kacem which supplies approximately 30% of the
national petroleum products market, and in the bottling of LPG
(para. 1.22). BRPM has, in addition, a 22% share in an LPG
storage company, formed in 1978, in association with the SCP
and other partners; and has a joint venture with APEX producing
limited amounts of natural gas in the Rharb Basin (para. 2.02).
(v)  The Technical Division executes BRPM's exploration work and
the work contracted for by third parties which has until recently
consisted essentially of extensive drilling for water authorities
and mining affiliates. It is also in charge of BRPM's overall
plant, equipment maintenance and procurement and storage of its
materials and consumables. It would be responsible for the
execution of the seismic and drilling work provided for under the
proposed project, and for the procurement of all necessary goods.
The Division disposes of several portable rigs suitable for hydraulic,
mineral and seismic drilling which by now however require rehabilita-
tion to be fully efficient. The Division has also three well
drilling rigs: an IDECO H525 capable of drilling to depths of 2,500
meters and two IDECO H1700's capable of drilling to depths of 4,500
meters; however, one of the latter rigs needs to be reconditioned.
The Technical Division has staff capable of manning its seismic
equipment and well drilllng rigs. Through the provision of funds,
which would help rehabilltate BRPM's equipment and keep its
equipment and staff employed for a period of about three years,
and through technical assistance to improve drilling management
and techniques, the proposed project would enhance the efficiency
and ensure the competitive cost of the Division's petroleum drilling
operations.
(vi)  Two other divisions, the Administrative Division and the
Financial Division maintain overall responsibility for
personnel, training, financial and accounting matters.
The latter will be instrumental in maintaining appropriate
accounting procedures for recording exploration expenditures
under the proposed project.



- 17 -
Accounts and Audit
3.06      BRPM follows the French system of accounting and operates an effi-
cient accounting department. The analysis of the accounts and cost alloca-
tions are satisfactory, the system is flexible and there is no difficulty
in adapting it to specific sectors of activity. Nevertheless, for the pur-
poses of the proposed project, BRPM now needs to develop additional accounting
procedures prior to the first disbursement from the loan (para. 4.19). BRPM
has agreed to hire consultants by May 31, 1980 to assist it in this work.
3.07      Like all other public or State-funded institutions, BRPM must submit
to a strict financial control of the State, as stipulated by the decrees of
April 14, 1960 and June 30, 1962. For almost all financial decisions, trans-
actions and accounts, it must seek the prior consent of the Minister of Finance,
a BRPM controller appointed by him, or the controllers' delegated agents.
The decrees also stipulate that the controller must prepare separate exten-
sive accounts of budgets and operations. However, BRPM's accounts have
never been subject to an independent audit.  BRPM has agreed to appoint
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank to conduct semi-annual audits
of project accounts and annual audits of BRPM accounts. BRPM has also agreed
to submit its audited project accounts not later than three months after the
end of every semester and its complete audited accounts not later than six
months after the end of each financial year.
lV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The Project will contribute to Morocco's efforts to accelerate the
exploration for and development of its petroleum potential. It will supplement
the efforts of BRPM and of private oil companies in:
(a)  completing the exploration of producing areas, where marginal
prospects still exist which may be developed economically, and
(b)  assessing the petroleum potential of basins yet insufficiently
explored and developing "leads" which, together with fiscal
and contractual arrangements reflecting appropriately the
promise and risk of their further exploration, could attract
foreign investments.
In addition, the Project will help BRPM restore and then maintain the full
efficiency of its equipment and improve the management of its exploration
activity. The Project will also assist BRPM in its plan for the development
of the country's oil shale resources, which could complement petroleum in
the longer run.



- 18 -
Project Description
4.02      The Project is essentially a three and a half year time slice of
BRPM's petroleum exploration activity, a period which would ensure a sufficient
continuity in the exploration process and achieve a meaningful coverage on the
main prospective onshore basins of Morocco.  The project will consist of (i) a
continuous exploration program to be implemented in several basins in successive
steps, (ii) the initial rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance and repair
of BRPM's seismic and drilling equipment, and (iii) technical assistance to
BRPM for its petroleum and oil shale activities.
A.   The Exploration Program
4.03      Given the number and variety of exploration prospects in Morocco
and BRPM's technical capability and financial resources, priorities had
to be established in designing an exploration program for the Bank-financed
project. The BRFM and Bank staff have concurred in adopting a program which
is a compromise between:
(i)  "low risk and low return" exploration for oil and gas in
structures identified in the shallow producing Jurassic of
the Essaouira basin, where additional hydrocarbon accumula-
tions of small size are likely to exist, whose potential
for early production justifies a limited drilling program;
(ii)  "higher risk and higher return" exploration of the deeper
pre-Jurassic prospects in Essaouira, which may yield larger
reserves of gas and perhaps rich condensate, provided that
good reservoirs are found by drilling and structural traps
presently identified are confirmed, which may require
limited additional seismic surveys; and
(iii)  "exploratory" 1/ seismic and drilling in other potentially
promising basins, where only limited exploration has taken
place, with the objective of developing "leads" for their
further exploration.
Master Work Program
4.04      The Master Work Program, which BRPM will implement in successive
steps over the total project period, aims essentially at completing about
3,400 line kilometers of seismic survey through 36 months of work with both
conventional and non-conventional seismic methods, and drilling about 17 wells
of various depths through the use of three drilling rigs, for a total of about
100 rig months, in the following onshore basins of Morocco:
1/   "exploratory":  Initial wTork in a basin where little knowledge of pos-
sible hydrocarbons has been assembled, or a new round of work in an
explored basin for reaching potentially producing deeper horizons
which have not yet been surveyed and tested. (See Brief and Glossary
for a more detailed discussion of petroleum exploration.)



- 19 -
Basins                         Wells       Seismic         Cost
(No.)      (Months)    ($ million)
Essaouira Jurassic               3            5             15
Essaouira Pre-Jurassic           2
Doukkala                         4            5             12
Hauts Plateax                    2            5              9
Boudnib                          2            5              9
Deep Riff                        1           10             11
Unallocated 1/                   3            6             13
To adequately plan, monitor and support these seismic and drilling works and
all related operations (such as site preparation, equipment tIansportation,
and the provision of access roads and water supply), BRPM's exploration
management and staff, with the assistance of consultants and specialists and
through the commissioning of external studies, will (i) initiate during the
first project period and thereafter update systematically on the basis of
exploration results, regional studies showing the depositiona:L and structural
history of all basins explored under the Project with emphasis on basic
exploration parameters; (ii) carry out evaluation studies of the "expected
value" of drilling prospects identified in these basins in ordler to choose
between alternative objectives for subsequent well drilling; and (iii)
assess the technical and economic feasibility of developing and bringing into
production any oil or gas accumulation discovered and expected to be commercial.
Initial Work Program
4.05      Of the exploration activities described above, the following have
been selected for the work program for the initial 9 to 12 month project
period:
(i) three Jurassic and two pre-Jurassic wells to be drilled in
the Essaouira basin;
(ii) seismic surveys to be completed in both Essaouira amd
Boudnib basins;
(iii)  updated assessment of the Essaouira basin and other
regional basin studies to be initiated; and
(iv) evaluation studies of drilling prospects' "expectedl value"
required for designing the following work program in due
course.
1/   Unallocated:  see para. 4.06.  Corresponding costs are accounted for
as physical contingencies in project cost estimates (para. 4.15).



- 20 -
An understanding on this work program and its related timetable (see Annex
4.6) has been reached with BRPM. As explained in para. 4.11, of all the
potentially promising basins in Morocco, the Essaouira basin deserved special
interest and offered a data base large and reliable enough to develop during
project appraisal the evaluation studies required for an informed decision on
an initial program of exploration work.
Subsequent Work Programs
4.06      Subsequent exploration work programs beyond the first project
period are more difficult to determine precisely. As customary in the
petroleum industry, each step of the program will be determined after evalua-
tion of the results obtained from previous work and studies.  Two main
alternatives or more likely a combination of the two can presently be projected
and will be decided upon on the basis of the results of seismic, drilling and
studies made during the first period:
(a) Should the exploration of Essaouira have produced results
significant enough to justify further drilling of exploratory
or appraisal wells in the basin, unallocated well drilling and,
if needed, seismic surveys (para. 4.04) would then be used for
this purpose; and
(b) Should no significant results have been obtained in Essaouira,
then subsequent BRPM efforts have to be fully applied to other
basins.
As indicated, the assessment of Moroccan prospects by BRPM and by Bank staff
and consultants during project appraisal makes it very likely that other
selected basins (paras. 2.15 to 2.18) would warrant initial exploratory work
or new rounds of exploration over the full project period. The regional and
evaluation studies that BRPM will carry out (para. 4.04(i) and (ii)), will
provide a rational basis for the formulation of defined programs in these
basins, as the studies commissioned by the Bank on the Essaouira basin did for
the initial period program (para. 4.11).
4.07      To ensure therefore that exploration programs for the Project
give priority to the best prospects available at any moment the following
has been agreed:



- 21 -
(i) To support present plans for further exploration in the
Essaouira and other basins selected under the agreed
Master Work Program, BRPM shall submit to the Bank for
review the regional basin studies referred to in
para. 4.04(i);
(ii) 'Work programs for the successive 12-month periods of the
Project shall be established through consultations between
BRPM and the Bank starting not later than six months after
the beginning of an on-going program. BRPM shall prepare
and submit to the Bank for review and comments a report on
the results obtained to date and a fully documented proposal
for (a) revisions of the on-going program, if any are justi-
fied, and for (b) seismic surveys, well drilling, studies and
related activities to be carried out over the next period.
The finalization of work programs and related timetables
will be the prerogative of BRPM, provided that adopted work
programs are in compliance with the two following provisions;
(iii) Well drilling to be financed by the loan in a given basin
shall be carried out only on those drilling prospects which
the Bank has found to be eligible for Bank financing, upon review
of BRPM's regional basin studies and (to the extent that the
progress of exploration in a basin and the information then
available warrant their execution) evaluation studies of
the "expected value" of alternative drilling prospects ; and
(iv) The disbursement of Bank funds for exploration work in
a given basin shall not exceed a fixed percentage of the
portion of the loan attributed to the financing of
exploration expenditures. In accordance with the agreed
Master Work Program (para 4.04), ceiling disbursement
percentages are 35% for the Essaouira basin and 20%
for every other selected basin.  However, in the course
of the project, BRPM could submit to the Bank for its
review and concurrence, evidence supporting a request
that (i) either unallocated work be carried out in one
of the selected basins under a ceiling disbursement
percentage increased accordingly, or (ii) new basins
be added to or substituted for those presently selected,
and disbursement percentages per basin be reconsidered
accordingly.
Such arraLngements have been devised to satisfy the BRPM that its exploration
activities under the Project can be carried out on a continuous basis with the
necessary flexibility. At the same time, the Bank will be assured that
funds from the loan would not be spent on drilling prospects not previously
approved or in a given basin beyond the overall amount agreed upon for this
basin.



- 22 -
B.   Exploration Equipment
4.08      To carry out seismic surveys and well drilling under exploration
programs of the project, BRPM will use the Division Technique's departmental
forces (para. 3.05(v)) consisting of one "conventional" seismic party (equip-
ment and crew) and three well drilling rigs, one H525 and two H1700's,
operated by its own crews. However, to be cost efficient this equipment
requires (i) initial reconditioning consisting of (a) the replacement of three
seismic truck-mounted rigs and related service vehicles and ancillary equip-
ment, and (b) the purchase and mounting of a new drilling mast for one H1700
rig, and (ii) maintenance and repairs in the course of the project through
the replacement of those parts, which by industrial standards have a life
period shorter than the equipment itself. The project will finance the
foreign exchange cost of these pieces of equipment and replacement parts.
However, in the course of the project, BRPM may eventually use its drilling
equipment so financed in part by Bank funds to carry out exploration work on
its own outside of the project for limited periods of time. Replacement parts
used for the maintenance and repair of such equipment during these periods and
for its rehabilitation, if needed at the end of such periods, will not be
financed by the loan but by funds set aside by BRPM for that purpose.
Technical Assistance
4.09      Although BRPM is capable and adequately staffed to carry out ex-
ploration work, specific improvements in exploration management as well as use
of external expertise in specialized techniques are required. The proposed
project provides therefore for assistance to BRPM in:
(a) developing an appropriate methodology to evaluate and compare
the "expected value" of drilling prospects and to design
optimal exploration programs;
(b) improving drilling management with particular attention to
the distribution of responsibilities to headquarters and
field managers and the expedient use of specialized services
in exceptional circumstances (high pressure, well deviation,
tool fishing, etc.); and
(c) designing appropriate cost accounting procedures for
recording of exploration expenditures.
This assistance, whose cost is estimated at $4 million, will require assign-
ment of consultants and specialists, commissioning of studies for prospect
evaluation and project feasibility, use of specialized drilling expertise and
services, and the possible purchase of laboratory equipment. BRPM will hire
consultants at the beginning of the project (para. 4.19). Other components of
the technical assistance will be included, when needed, as part of the defined
work programs (para. 4.07(ii)).
4.10      The loan also includes provision of $1 million for assistance
to BRPM 1/ in assessing Morocco's options for the development of oil shale
1/   The Division for Mineral Valuation and Research of BRPM (para. 3.05(iii))
will be responsible for implementing this part of the project.



- 23 -
resources through alternative projects, especially a labor-intelasive scheme
of surface extraction and distillation. Such assistance will consist of
assignment of consultants and commissioning of specific studies. BRPM has
agreed to hire such consultants by June 30, 1980 and to make available for
review by the Bank the recommendations of the ecnsultants and -le res- ,s G_
the studies.
Status of ]?roject Preparation
4.11      On the basis of periodic assessments carried out by BRPM (the latest
exhaustive one was made for the preparation of the 1978-82 development plan),
a large number of prospects had been identified in several basins for future
exploration (paras. 2.15 to 2.19). Of all areas considered, the Essaouira
basin deserved special interest: production existed, exploration was more
advanced than in other basins, numerous structures had been identified by
recent modern seismic surveys and a large data base made it possible to carry
out a statistical risk analysis (Annex 4.1) to select the best prospects and
devise an optimal drilling sequence. The Bank thus commissioned Gaffney,
Cline and Associates (GCA) (Consultants, UK) to evaluate the potential of this
basin and recommend a drilling program. In addition, the Bank secured the
services of an independent explorationist, A. Dumestre (Consultant, Spain)
to review BRPM's assessment of all Moroccan basins, including ECssaouira, and
select basins which could warrant a resumption of exploration.
4.12      The methodology used in the GCA study (Annex 4.2) favored high risk
prospects of the pre-Jurassic and discounted the value of lower risk prospects
of the Jurassic, which although they are small could, in the opinion of the
Bank staff' (geologists and petroleum engineers) and of BRPM staff, be produced
economically. In particular, GCA recommended that no further drilling be
carried out in Jurassic structures and that all new exploratory drilling be
done in pre-Jurassic prospects. The main shortcomings of the initial GCA
report were the extrapolation of parameters on the basis of limited samples
which are not necessarily representative, and likely weaknesses in the economic
evaluation of future discoveries, as the investment/production profiles used
are not discussed and justified. Upon the request of the Bank, GCA carried
out additional sensitivity analyses to take better account of the present
uncertainty on the value of geological parameters (Annex 4.3).
4.13      As regards the Essaouira basin, the outcomes of GCA's study (which
is available in the project file) and the use of other methods of prospect
appraisal currently used in the industry (Annex 4.1, para. 3) indicated that
a limited drilling program was justified (Annexes 4.4 and 4.5) in both
Jurassic structures and pre-Jurassic prospects. However, well drilling should
be complemented by a systematic evaluation of new data to assess whether
further exploration in this basin is justified (4.05(iii)).



- 24 -
4.14      Concerning the other basins of unassessed potential (paras. 2.15
to 2.18) which A. Dumestre had selected for a resumption of exploration, the
conclusions of the Bank staff (geologists and petroleum engineers) were that,
on the basis of available information, the most suitable approach would be to
complete a reasonable seismic coverage and to drill a limited number of
stratigraphic wells. However, before embarking on an exploratXvn program
costing $10 million per basin (para. 4.04), additional assessment of prospects
should be made (para. 4.05(iii)).
Cost Estimates
4.15      The estimated cost of the project is DH333.0 million (US$90
million) of which DH185.0 million (US$50 million) is foreign exchange. The
costs are summarized in the attached table and assumptions are detailed in
Annex 4.7. Exploration cost estimate was developed by the Bank staff and BRPM
on the basis of statistical information provided by BRPM's Exploration Division
for the period 1976-78 and on the basis of recent costs in Morocco and neighbor-
ing countries for similar exploration operations and services. The cost of
equipment, materials and consumables is based on end-1979 prices. Foreign
exchange costs of the project are $3 million for initial equipment rehabilita-
tion, $6.5 million for replacing parts of drilling rigs, $20.5 million for
goods and consumables used by BRPM to carry out exploration work, $15 million
for specialized seismic and well services and $5 million for technical assis-
tance. The foreign exchange cost of technical assistance is based on:
-    125 man-months of consultants and specialists in exploration,
drilling, accounting and auditing at an average cost of $10,000
per month,
-    a sum of $2 million to cover prospect evaluation and develop-
ment feasibility studies and special drilling operations'
expertise,
-    a sum of $0.5 million for the purchase of laboratory equipment,
and
-    a sum of $1 million for assistance to BRPM in the assessment
of oil shale development.
A 20% physical contingency has been applied to the total base cost of the
project to allow for unallocated seismic and/or well drilling (para. 4.04)
which may be required to evaluate a potential discovery or to expand pro-
posed programs. Price contingencies have been applied both to the local
currency and foreign exchange cost components to account for projected price
escalation of 10.5%, 9%, 8% and 7% during the years 1980, 1981, 1982 and
1983 respectively.



Project Cost Estimates
DH Million                                        US$ Million
Exploration Work                Local      F.E.        Total                     Local       F.E.          Total
Seismic Surveys
BRPM Equipment & Crews           11.1       7.4        18.5                       3.0         2.0           5.0
Explosives & consumables          1.7       5.8         7.5                       0.5         1.5           2.0
Recording/Processing              3.7      14.8        18.5                       1.0         4.0           5.0
Seismic:  Sub-total         16.5      28.0        44.5                       4.5         7.5          12.0
Well Drillings
BRPM Equipment & Crews           64.8      27.7        92.5                      17.5         7.5          25.0
Consumables                       1.8       9.2        11.0                       0.5         2.5           3.0
Well Equipment                    3.7      31.3        35.0                       1.0         8.5           9.5
Well Services                     3.7      20.3        24.0                       1.0         5.5           6.5
Drilling:  Sub-total        74.0      88.5       162.5                      20.0        24.0          44.0
Total                       90.5     116.5       207.0                      24.5        31.5          56.0
Exploration Management
BRPM           Consultants,               ( 4.8                                            ( 1.3              5
Management     Specialist        12.2     (            24.0                       3.3       (               6.5         s
& Staff        & Studies                  (7.0                                             ( 1.9                        LI'
Laboratory Equipment              0.3       1.5         1.8                       0.1         0.4           0.5
Oil Shales                        6.0       3.2         9.2                       1.6         0.9           2.5
Total                       18.5      16.5        35.0                       5.0         4.5           9.5
Project Total Base Cost         109.0     133.0       242.0                      29.5        36.0          65.5
Contingencies
Physical                         22.0      28.0        50.0                       6.0         7.5          13.5
Price                            17.0      24.0        41.0                       4.5         6.5          11.0
Total Project Cost              148.0    185.0        333.0                      40.0        50.0          90.0



- 26 -
Financing Plan
4.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$50 million is intended to finance
the foreign exchange cost of the project. However, exploration programs are
not precisely defined, so that actual foreign exchange and local costs of the
project could differ from present estimates. The proposed loan can thus be
viewed as a fixed contribution of the Bank to the continuing BRPM exploration
activities, until accrued disbursement from the loan reaches the $50 million
ceiling amount. BRPM and the Government will have to finance the corresponding
local cost of the actual project, which is estimated to amount to $40 million
equivalent. The funds required will be provided to BRPM by the Government
through annual budget allocations. Since allocations are known to be limited
under current and coming austerity budgets, the Government and BRPM have
provided assurances that enough funds will be made available out of BRPM
budget allocations or otherwise to cover the local currency cost of the
project.
Lending Arrangements
4.17      In order to ensure that the funds provided by the Bank are clearly
additional to the Government contribution to the project, the proposed Bank
loan will be made to BRPM. The loan will be made on terms and conditions simi-
lar to those of engineering loans 1/, i.e., a period of ten years at the
prevailing interest rate, including a grace period of four years, and would
be refinanced in whole or in part, at the Bank's option, from a subsequent
loan for development/production of petroleum resources identified under the
project. The term of the loan would be extended to 17 years if the exploration
project does not lead by March 31, 1984 to a development/production project
suitable for Bank financing. BRPM therefore will submit to the Bank for
review the feasibility studies of the development of any discovery expected
to be commercial (para. 4.04(iii)).
4.18      The loan would be guaranteed by the Government of Morocco.  At least
during the grace period, BRPM will not be in a position to service the interest
and commitment charges on the Bank loan from its own funds. The Government
will therefore provide through annual budget allocations or otherwise, adequate
funds to BRPM to service those charges in addition to the local funds required
to execute the project (para. 4.16). However, as explained in para. 5.11, BRPM
future financial viability depends largely on the results (measured in terms
of commercial discoveries) of either the proposed project or the currently
active joint ventures with Phillips, SNEA and other foreign oil companies. By
the end of the grace period, such exploration results will be reviewed as well
as opportunities and requirements for further exploration, and the resulting
future finances of BRPM will be assessed. A decision will be made as to
whether the exploration loan would be refinanced in whole or in part under a
Bank-financed development/production loan or its terms of repayment extended
to 17 years, and discussions will be held on subsequent arrangements for the
loan repayment.
1/   As provided in para. 86 of the "Program to Accelerate Petroleum Production
in the Developing Countries," dated November 30, 1978 and approved by
the Board of Executive Directors on January 19, 1979.



- 27 -
Project Management and Implementation
4.19      The project will be implemented by BRPM with the support of spe-
cialized f'irms and the assistance of consultants whose qualifications and
terms of employment are satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower. As
explained in paras. 3.05 (iii) and (iv), the Division of Petroleum Exploration
(DPE) has competent management and staff capable of carrying out exploration
work through the use of adequately equipped and staffed departmental forces of
the Technical Division (DT).  A review of the state of repair of the equipment
and of the operating cost of BRPM indicated that with initial rehabilitation
of exploration equipment (para. 4.08) and with the assistance of qualified
specialists to improve drilling performance, DT would be cost efficient. In
order to iLmprove the quality of the exploration activities (adoption of
optimal programs and collection of a maximum of valuable information), it is
advisable that DPE retains consultants and specialists and commissions specific
studies for assistance in the geological assessment of basins, the evaluation
of drilling prospects' expected value and the feasibility of any development,
the preparation and follow-up of seismic and drilling programs, and the
procedures for recording the cost of exploration operations (para. 4.09). For
that purpose and in view of the importance of this assistance in ensuring that
exploration programs, drilling performance and project accounting will be up
to international standards, BRPM will recruit consultants and specialists not
later than May 31, 1980, will establish appropriate project accounting pro-
cedures, and will use consultants' services and commission studies at times
and in quantities projected in Annex 4.7.
Procurement
4.20      Goods required for the execution of the project and whose foreign
exchange cost is expected to amount to US$30 million are (i) main and spare
parts for the initial reconditioning and subsequent maintenance and repair of
seismic and drilling equipment operated by DT's departmental forces, (ii)
various materials (such as drilling bits, mud products, special cement,
casings, tubings, well heads, and explosives) and (iii) consumables, to be
used by DT for carrying out seismic surveys and well drilling as work progres-
ses. Spare parts, materials and consumables will be purchased by DT in
bulk when the market is favorable, to replenish stocks at levetls which would
ensure that current needs of on-going exploration work are satisfied without
delays. BRPM has agreed to purchase said goods under ICB procedures for a
total cost equivalent to the accrued amount of loan disburseme!nt made for such
goods used for the project. However, purchases relating to urgent needs and
of an individual amount not exceeding $300,000, can be processed under BRPM's
own procedures, which are in accordance with the Limited International Tender-
ing (LIT) procedures of the Bank, provided that their aggregate amount does
not exceed US$4 million over the project period. Should this ceiling amount
be recognized later to eventually jeopardize the continuity or safety of
exploration work, revision of this amount would be considered by the Bank.
4.21      BRPM will also use the services of specialized firms to assist in
the carrying out of seismic surveys (field recording and data processing) and
well drilling (logging, mud control and other services). Existing contracts



- 28 -
for such services, which have been awarded under BRPM's own procedures, will
be continued to their earliest expiration provided that aggregate disbursement
against expenditures under these existing contracts do not exceed US$5 million.
For further specialized services required by the Project, BRPM will make new
awards under Bank's LIT procedures, as is justified by the limited number of
suppliers.
Disbursement
4.22      Disbursement will be made monthly on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOE) and specific invoices. SOE's will relate to spare parts,
materials, and consumables (para. 4.20) and to specialized firm's services
(para. 4.21) used by BRPM for carrying out the project. These SOE's will
be supported by a report on work progress, a list of quantities of goods and
services used during the month and appropriate documentation (invoices or
contracts) on the unit cost of said goods and services. Consultants, when on
assignment to BRPM, will countersign the SOE's. Specific invoices will be (i)
from suppliers for main parts used in the reconditioning of seismic and
drilling equipment (para. 4.08(i), (ii) from consulting engineers for evalua-
tion and feasibility studies and for laboratory equipment and expertise as the
case may be, and (iii) from consultants and specialists assigned to BRPM under
Technical Assistance.
4.23      Disbursements will be made against (i) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 70%of local expenditures for all categories of goods, (ii) 80% of expendi-
tures for specialized services, and (iii) 100% or 50% of expenditures for
consultants and consulting engineers depending on whether they domicile
outside or in Morocco respectively. It is expected that the above percentages
would achieve the objective of the loan to finance the actual foreign exchange
cost of the project. However, the breakdown between foreign exchange and
local costs may vary significantly over the course of the project. Therefore,
on the basis of semi-annual reports from the auditors on project accounts and
breakdown between foreign exchange and local costs, accrued disbursement would
be compared to actual project foreign exchange cost, and disbursement percen-
tages would be adjusted accordingly. In the event disbursements are not
supported by appropriate documentation, exceed the percentage of exploration
expenditures allocated to a given basin (para. 4.07(iv) or cover unapproved
program components, the Bank will limit disbursement until a satisfactory
situation is restored.
4.24      Disbursements are expected to spread over a period of three and
a half years at a rate of about US$1.2 million equivalent per month. Early
disbursement is expected in the first semester of 1980 for the rehabilitation
of equipment and for the initial period exploration work. Retroactive financ-
ing of an amount not exceeding $5 million is thus proposed to cover the
cost of goods and services used between the beginning of the project and
the signature of the proposed loan. A schedule of disbursement is at Annex
4.8.



- 29 -
Environmental Impact
4.25      Seismic explosives shooting, preparation of drilling sites and
disposal oif drilling residues will cause some temporary disturbance to the
environment; however, sites will be restored after completion and no perma-
nent damage will be made to the environment.  All drilling rigs will be
equipped with proper safety equipment such as blow-out preventers to avoid
damages from accidental spills. However, adequate provisions are made in the
project legal documents for BRPM to use funds from the loan to secure the best
available expertise and necessary equipment without delay in case of a
crash accident, which could develop into a catastrophic situation.
Reporting Requirements
4.26      The progress reports supporting monthly statements of expenditures
and specific invoices for goods and services, and the reports and proposals to
be submitted by BRPM periodically for subsequent work programs will form the
basis of the reporting and project supervision.
Project Risk
4.27      Exploration is by nature a risky operation as positive results have
on average one chance in 10 to 15 of occurring, although a better ratio could
be expected in Morocco on the basis of past exploration experience.  However,
it should be pointed out that even a medium size hydrocarbon discovery would
ln this ca,se more than offset the exploration cost and that the prime objec-
tive of the main part of the proposed program is to develop leads to attract
foreign investments. In this perspective, the main risk is thalt the geological
potential might be less attractive than currently considered. This risk will
however be monitored through the consultation process that wilL be established
between BILPM, its consultants and the Bank, and the exploration program would
be suitably modified.
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Finances
5.01      Apart from the management of its investments, BRPM's major activities
have been, until now, confined to work in mineral and petroleum exploration,
performed mostly for its own account and funded predominantly by the Government.
The undernentioned summary Balance Sheets for the period FY74 through FY78,
are indicative of BRPM's financial position and its investment in the sectors
over that period.



- 30 -
As of December 31:                     1974      1975      1976     1977      1978
(DH million)
Net Plant                              23.2      40.3      66.7     95.8      87.2
Exploration                            98.6    160.7    266.6    317.1    331.6
Investment in Affiliates              248.6    327.5    379.6    395.2    421.9
Working Capital                        11.9      48.7      81.8     88.6      68.2
Total Assets                       382.5    577.2    794.7    896.7    908.7
Government Equity                     372.0    565.2    778.8    877.6    887.1
Provision for Pension Funds             8.7      10.4      12.6     14.9      17.4
Long-term Debt                          1.8       1.6       3.3      4.2       4.4
Total Liabilities                  382.5    577.2    794.7    896.7    908.9
Debt/Equity Ratio                     3/97      2/98      2/98     2/98      2/98
Assets
5.02      BRPM's total net assets increased from DH 382 (US$96) million in
FY74 to DH 909 (US$227) million in FY78.
(i) Investment in Exploration
As of FY78, DH 332 (US$83) million or 36% of BRPM's total assets
were deployed in its petroleum or mineral exploration activities; of this sum
DH 220 (US$55) million represented investment in petroleum exploration and
DHI12 (US$28) million in mineral exploration. Since BRPM follows accepted
standards of writing off unsuccessful exploration costs against equity, the
investment represents exploration which has not yet been deemed unsuccessful.
Almost 30% of the investment in the petroleum sector is attributable to the
Essaouira Basin activities (para. 2.19(a)); the remaining 70% relates to
countrywide drilling and seismic operations.
(ii) Investment in Affiliates
As of end FY78 DH 422 (US$106) million or 46% of BRPM's total assets
were deployed in investments in affiliates, either totally or partially owned.
73% of the sum represents share holdings in mining companies - US$21 million
in the almost totally owned Jerada coal mining subsidiary, US$19 million in
the wholly-owned iron ore subsidiary, US$17.5 million in copper mining activi-
ties jointly owned with third parties, and US$19 million in wholly or partially
owned lead, silicone, manganese and other mining companies. BRPM's petroleum
investment consists mainly of a US$9 million investment in SCP, in which it
has a 50% interest, and which it owns jointly with a French Group with SNEA as
a major partner. BRPM, in addition, has a 50-50 joint operating venture with
APEX in gas production.



- 31 -
(iii) Plant
BRPM's net plant as of end FY78 amounted to DH 87 (US$22) million
or 10% of total assets; US$9 million of this sum represented equipment used
exclusively for petroleum drilling and seismic work.
Capitalization
5.03      BRPM's capital structure has essentially remained the same over
the past five years and as of end FY78, 97% of the enterprise's capital was
represented by Government equity. Since funds from internal sources have
been small and only a small amount of long-term debt has been taken up,
BRPM's investments have been financed mainly from Government budget appro-
priations;; in the period FY74-78 these have amounted to DH 815 (US$204)
million. Given the nature of the operations and the element of risk involved,
the Government's policy of financing BRPM's exploration activities by equity
financing has been prudent; the capitalization of the enterprise as of
end-FY78 was sound.
Past Earnings
5.04      Since FY74 BRPM's net earnings have been as follows:
FY                   74      75     76      77     78
DH million                    11.6   25.8   25.9   23.3   18.5
Return on invested capital    3%       4%      3%     3%      2%
Returns on invested capital have been extremely low (2-4%), reflect-
ing the nature of the exploration operations and low dividend income from
affiliates resulting from fluctuations in international mineral prices, low
domestic coal prices, and the need of some subsidiaries to reinvest profits.
BRPM's coal, iron ore and copper mining affiliates have yielded no significant
dividends over the past few years. BRPM's returns on its petroleum invest-
ments have also been low; SCP distributed dividends in FYs75, 76 and 78 of
about US$0.8 million per year on an investment of US$9 million; limitation on
earnings of this subsidiary has been caused by Government regulated limits
on refinery margins. BRPM's only other present source of earnings from
petroleum development has been a dividend of US$0.9 million on the joint
operating venture with APEX.
Past Financing
5.05      The undermentioned table indicates the investment made by BRPM over
the period FY74-78 and the sources of finance.



- 32 -
In  DH million         In US$ million
FY74-77     FY78      Total       Total
Investment
Petroleum Exploration                 315.2       62.0      377.2       94.3
Mineral Exploration                   160.0       32.0      192.0       48.0
Investment in Affiliates              237.2       27.6      264.8       66.2
Plant                                 115.6       15.6      131.2       32.8
Working Capital                        74.0      (20.4)      53.6       13.4
Total Investment                   902.0      116.8   1,018.8      254.7
Sources
Internal Funds                        150.0       44.8      194.8      48.7
Less Debt Service                      (10.0)     (2.0)    (12.0)       (3.0)
140.0      42.8      182.8       45.7
Borrowings                             16.0        4.0       20.0        5.0
Budgetary Appropriatlons              746.0       70.0      816.0     204.0
Total Sources                      902.0      116.8   1,018.8      254.7
Average annual debt service coverage (times) - 22
5.06      In the years between 1974 and 1977, financial discipline dictated
that BRPM cover its plant, working capital, debt service and other related
requirements mainly through internally generated funds. In line with estab-
lished policy to accelerate development, the Government provided the funds to
cover the cost of expanding programs in exploration and in BRPM investments
in affiliates. By 1977, supported by budgeted appropriations, BRPM reached
an annual level of investment of about $31 million on petroleum exploration
and about $12 million on equipment and related materials.
5.07      This guideline to financial policy was changed, however, with the
severe curtailment of budgetary allocations to public enterprises necessitated
by the Government's 1978-80 Austerity Plan. A reduction in Government funding
in 1978 to about a third of its 1977 level resulted in a drastic cutdown in
the size of BRPM's exploration plans. With the view to keeping to a mininum
the number of idle equipment and manpower, BRPM has had to reduce working
capital to fund a proportion of the work done.
Future Finances
5.08      BRPM is potentially in a position to benefit very favorably from
any significantly successful investment by foreign partners with whom It has
had the proven ability to negotiate 50%-50% joint venture agreements which
hold the foreign partners liable for all exploration expenditure. It now holds



- 33 -
two such agreements, the first with Phillips, and the second signed in August
1979 with SNEA (para. 2.09). Nevertheless, in the event of a discovery, BRPM
would have to share equally in the cost of field appraisal and development;
and for sevreral years before any generation of revenue can be expected, it
would be in need of possibly large amounts of funds. At present, the company
has also some small promising projects of its own - development of gas and
condensate reserves at Toukimt and at least one of several mine development
options presently being studied and expected to be moderately profitable.
BRPM also has a possibility to earn a small incremental profit from its
recently expanded effort to work under contract to third parties. These
small developments however will not be possible without the incurrence of
some small-scale debt which will have to be serviced, and without some further
investment in plant.
5.09      The proposed loan, in promoting increased foreign investment in
Morocco's exploration would support a BRPM implemented program designed
primarily to clarify prospects and reduce potential investors' risk. During
the three-year period of project implementation the loan would, in conjunction
with Government funds, allow BRPM to return to pre-1978 level of petroleum
exploraticon expenditure of about US$30 million per year. If as expected the
project is successful, the results should help to enlist new foreign partners
in additional exploration, and should prove at least small fields which could
be produced without long delays by BRPM on its own (para. 2.19(a)). In
either case, however, expenditures subsequent to project investment, will be
required.
5.10      Any significant improvement in BRPM's future finances depends
essential:Ly on the completion of successful exploration and subsequently
profitable development. However, given the nature of such operations, it is
impossible to forecast BRPM's financial future with any degree of accuracy
and no atitempt has been made to do this. Whatever the outcome of BRPM's
future projects, the enterprise will remain for a period of presently undeter-
minable duration dependent on the Government or on borrowing for the financing
of the major share of its requirements for funds. These requirements may
increase by several orders of magnitude if BRPM is asked to assume major
responsibilties in the implementation of the Government's oil shales develop-
ment plan.
5.11      As discussed in para. 4.18 above, BRPM's future finances will be
reassessed by the end of the grace period on the Bank loan; in any event
suitable arrangements have been made (para. 4.18) to ensure the due and
practical servicing of the loan.



- 34 -
VI. PROJECT EVALUATION
Project Benefits
6.01      The difficulties of measuring expected benefits from an oil and
gas explorati LI project fall into two categories. The first is the inherent
uncertainty involved in estimating probable outcomes of drilling and other
exploration activities. The range of potential outcomes is large, and could
depend upon many interconnected geological factors. To deal with this problem,
the mission obtained geological appraisals from two independent consultants
(para. 4.11). A probability analysis was undertaken to obtain estimates for the
rates of return on each of the Jurassic and pre-Jurassic prospects of Essaouira.
The prospects were then ranked to develop initial drilling sequences.
6.02      Based on these rankings, and taking into account all development
costs associated with successful discoveries, the real rate of return on the
first year program in the pre-Jurassic has been estimated at about 16% and in
the Jurassic at about 9% (Annex 4.3). These figures are averages of rates
of return on individual prospects which have been estimated at 17% and 15%
for the pre-Jurassic Oued Tahria and Meskala structures, and at 11%, 9% and
6% for Tahrzout, Kouba bi Fassiou, and Id el Makhoud Jurassic prospects,
respectively. The rates of return that would be achieved if the programs are
successful (i.e., if the present most likely expectation of potential reserve
levels is confirmed), has been estimated at 27% for the pre-Jurassic program
and 18% for the Jurassic program.
6.03      These rates of return assume an opportunity cost for the oil of
$24 per barrel and for natural gas of $3 per mcf, and exploration and develop-
ment drilling costs in line with BPRM's historic performance. The analyses
were based on several independent expert assessments of two key parameters for
each prospect: the most likely estimate of recoverable reserves, and the
probability that the drilling will result in a find of this magnitude.
In the case of the pre-Jurassic prospects, these assessments came to essenti-
ally the same conclusion. In the case of Jurassic prospects, there remains a
divergence of views, the reasons for which are explained in knnexes 4.3 to
4.5. The rates of return as given above reflect the mission's conclusions,
which are closer to A. Dumestre's judgement than to GCA's. A brief descrip-
tion of the methodology used and listings of estimated parameter values are
given in Annex 4.3.
6.04      The rates of return in para. 6.02 are in fact notably conservative
for several reasons:
(i)  The pre-Jurassic structures have been assumed, based on cur-
rent evidence, to contain dry natural gas rather than oil or
condensates, whereas either of the latter alternatives would
greatly enhance the prospects' expected potential;
(ii) Both estimates are based on the assumption that the opportunity
cost of the oil and of the gas will remain constant, whereas
an increase of the order of 10% in this level would lead to
a 2% increase in expected return;



- 35 -
(iii) Both estimates do not take into account the possibility that
]3PRM's drilling times may be reduced, whereas a reduction of
the order of 25% in drilling cost would increase the expected
rate of return by 5-8%; and
(iv)  The method used to estimate returns does not take into account
the interdependence of prospects, whereas a successful find
in one prospect may significantly enhance the probability of
finds in other prospects of the same type. The eight
identified structures in pre-Jurassic horizons may contain
cumulatively between 500 Bcf and 3,000 Bcf of gas, and the
dozen Jurassic structures up to 30 million barrels of oil or
gas equivalent.
6.05      The second difficulty in measuring exploration project benefits
is the problem of quantifying the value of additional information which, by
reducing investor's risk, may attract additional capital participation in
future exploration and development efforts. The catalytic role which the
Bank would fulfill (para. 2.20) through its participation in early exploration
activities such as the seismic surveys which account for nearly one-fourth of
total project cost, and in drilling in the largely underexplored basins
outside Essaouira during the project's second and third years, is an important
but largely unquantifiable ex ante benefit of the project.
6.06      Over the longer term, this project will provide the Government with
sufficient information and a sound basis on which to plan the further explora-
tion and development of its oil and gas resources in most onshore areas. The
results will assist it in the projection of likely schedules and volumes of
future production and of the magnitude of the capital investment required from
both public and private sources to achieve these objectives.  And in the near
term, by providing the means to make fuller use of BPRM staff and equipment,
the project will help maintain the efficiency and competitive iunit costs of
current exploratory work.
Least Cost Program
6.07      As indicated above (para. 6.02), the first year program has been
determined on the basis of a probability analysis based on current information
and geological estimates for each prospect. As more and better informa-
tion becones available through surveys and drilling activities, the program
will be aidjusted periodically in consultation with the Bank (para. 4.07).
This will ensure the rapid assimilation of information as it becomes available
and the maintenance of a least cost exploration program.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      BRPM has agreed to:
(i)  carry out its exploration activities according to an agreed master
program (para. 4.04), beginning with a defined work plan and



- 36 -
timetable for the initial period (para. 4.05) and followed
by subsequent programs which comprise only drilling works
eligible for Bank financing (para. 4.7(iii) and whose Bank-
financed exploration cost in a given basin does not exceed a
fixed percentage of the loan (para. 4.7(iv));
(ii) submit to the Bank for review regional studies of the
Essaouira and other Moroccan basins (para. 4.07(i)).
(iii) submit to the Bank at fixed times reports on the
results obtained to date, proposals for subsequent
seismic and drilling programs (para. 4.07(ii)), evalua-
tion studies of the expected value of alternative
drilling prospects (para. 4.04(ii)) and requests for
technical assistance (para. 4.09) during the subsequent
period;
(iv) recruit exploration, drilling and accounting consultants
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
by May 31, 1980 (para. 4.19);
(v) establish project accounting procedures satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.19);
(vi) employ independent auditors to review project accounts
every six months and BPRM's accounts every year (para. 3.07);
(vii) submit to the Bank for review the feasibility studies
of the development of any expected commercial discovery
(para. 4.17); and
(viii)  recruit consultants by June 30, 1980 and commission specific
studies to assist in oil shale development, and make
available for review by the Bank the recommendations of
such consultants and the results of such studies (para 4.10).
7.02      The Government has agreed to provide BRPM with adequate funds
to cover the local cost of the project (para. 4.16) and to service the Bank
loan (para. 4.18).
7.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million
equivalent to BPRM for 10 years, including four years of grace. If no com-
mercial discovery is made before the expiration of the grace period, the terms
of the loan should be extended to standard country terms. The loan will be
guaranteed by the Government of Morocco.



-        -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Rh orb I
v _Xt _f fz<__iA Wi$1               _             ---PRODUCTION  DE  PETROLE
/\1  e 8 W 8 Z ! I |                       -        DEPUIS' 1947
< -ooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --~+                                                                          I.r
. X~~~~~~~~~~ -4-_-----'-------                          4;8      ,!  
--oo   _t                                                     -1-- V- X~ ~ Ii'   TI  DEUI 1__35. X>t    
Wo 0000 
PRODUCTION                                                                                P ,.DUCus n o  DE GAZ
ANN5IS  5                        5%'~~~~~~~~DEUI 15
| D'HYDROCARBURESst                                        2             t-tt             +DP0S15
|    ALI MAROC                            t"|42                   <   
|     I .,~ anni-e dc e -noini                     s  r+4F                    tFIti   
|       ~~~n < ^,oiotcotio/7i                 t                            -       11                                              ;
is         -              -
I.                          .   _






ANN'EX 3.1
ACTIVITZ DES PRINCIPALES FILIALES DU BRPM (ESERCICE 1978)
DES IGN4TI0  D8 .LOCLISATION   * PRINCIPAL   MONTANT DU:          REPARTITIUN  DU  CAPITAL   EN  Z.                  PRODUCTION 1978
LA, SOCIETE    LCLIAON             KMI        CAPIT1L      RP                                                        (tonries minerai
LK SOCT2TZ    .   ;  MINERAI ; CAPI:^L  * g.R.p.M. :P A R TS N A I R E*   n^hi)4
P A P.. TE N A 1 R I           marchand)
S8FERIP         :NADOI            FER        :76.893.500    100 I                                                          58.938
S.S.M.           MOMMZDIA         SZL GMZ    18.600.000    IOO                                                             15.000
SODECAT         :ATAA   IDT       CUIVRR        .O.OOO    IO         .                                                      3.597
:ASS IP IMDER    CUV           0.0.0        10359
C.S.A.          AJERaAZ&          An-HRACITE  84.999.996      98,89       Divers         1,11                             720.000
SOMIMA           OUASSIMI  T    'CUIVRE      :20.306.700      74,88       GEOKM         25,12                               6.197
S.M.I.          ,IMflER         lARGENT        3.770.000      69          O.N.A.        31                                 23.999
SOFOMAC         :AGADIR           CUIVRE     :IO.OOO.OOO      65          ZELLIDJA S.4. 35                            En cours d'6tudce
AOULI            MIHLADEN-AOULI  MPLaB        20.000.000 :    64,65       DIVERS        35,35                              6. 068
F.C.P.          :MER1S           : PLOMB     :I0.000.000 :   50      :    ZELLIDJA S.A. IO                          : Ea cours d'etud4
SODIM         10
SOCIETE MNIERE ARBE : 25
SODM            ZEEDA            PLQK8      .IO.OOO.OOO.   50       .  ZELLIDJA S.A.  50                           .      47.722
GRLZ      :70.680.000      50       G      RUPE FUaIX     : 50                   84 .000I/Pt.La/f
S..S   SET LAO    '8EL  2.143.100      50       SALIN DE SINE SALOUX   50                     *     34.813
COM@hABAR       :JEBEL IOUD    BRT             1.399.400      50                                                           47.76I
66'5'  . :280MINES D'AOULI   40                                       1.852 T/Plomb
ADBAR           ;JEBL ADRAR    .PLOMB/ZINC ; 665.280         50JADIO: .20TMxa:
JAIDI        10                              1.200 T/Mixtas
B.R.P.M./APEX    GUNAL       .      Z        :   '       :
37.345.774
IK3G&Z
jKETppRA/; DR&A&  :PwBIROr              .          .        s r       39,23                             28.9
SEPYK                              T P3/Z     35.000.000 *   4734          .C.P.r       12                                 89.529
C.M.M.        1.43
'   *         '                       .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cis MnrTA    47,I4
SACEM           .IMINI           .MANGANESE  :24.000.000      47,14  O: .N.A.            2,5                        '    114.188
ITMTAIL       3,2.2
C.T.T.       40
SOMIPEX          BLEIDA          *cuIR       :79.999.500:   48             .N.A.         8                                   I.846
M4.M4.        4
O.N.A.       4I,46
SAMINE          :EL HKHAM         FORJINE    26.000.000       35          P U K        I3,85                               54.200
DIVUR         9.69
CTT             :QjAZT            0Al           26  a          5      I0NA 1:  5.II   -   I-MIEKS :5.20 -DI7.:4,55          a
WRIST TPO/Z TA*2.680.000 *   33,33   S.t                         Nsnta : 33,33-Cio Astu=.33,33 *
;.Z.  ;OUSD EL H;TI-M 'PB/ARGM   'IT..500.000       :ZELL.: 40 /C.M.T. : 20/ PENAROA   14             28.518/Pb
P.Z.             OUEDZL NIE  PB/ARGEST   II.500.C000          26          ..      ...                                11.559 Kg/ Argent,
SOMAE            WiHAMMEDIA       STOCRAGZ   ;:3.000.000      23     ; SNPP: 33 // SAM   : 22  || SCP: 16,5         ;
G L P    .           .           .        SOCIZTE IIQUIA: 5.5                   .
:AGADIE         :AS POT  : 2.500.000         22,74  : O.N.A. : 43,80 // OSI-MINES: 3,38                               w
Pers. Ihys. SATAS   27.23      DVERS :2.62
SOMIL           * S12  LANCEN    * f iPLOtB      100.000    100
s. M. S.        :JBEL SERCUA    :ARGENT      ;  I00.000      zO 



ANNEX 4.1
METHODOLOGY USED IN PROSPECT EVALUATION
I/
Two criteria- , a probability of discovery (p) and a profit to
investment ratio (ROI) are generally used in conjunction, as measures of the
relative degree of risks and profitability expected in projected exploration
drilling. The discovery probability (p) is the product of the respective
probabilities that each of the independent factors which technically command
the presence of oil occurs in the contemplated drilling location. The profit
to investment ratio is the simple multiple of how many times the expected
profit from a discovery (i.e. net value of total production less costs of
exploration and development) would exceed the dry hole cost.  According to
game theories, an advisable requisite is that a prospect, to be eligible for
drilling, must have a profit to investment ratio higher than its discovery
probability, so that profits from successful wells statistically cover the
costs of expected dry holes.
For further analysis of and comparison between eligible prospects,
an evaluation of prospect economics is made in the form of an expected monetary
value (EMV) per prospect. This method aggregates both criteria (p) and (ROI)
in a single conceptual measure. Calculations account for time delays and dis-
counted amounts of expenses and revenues over the total life of the prospect
(from exploratory drilling to development for production to field depletion)
under an assumed time discounting rate and given legislative and fiscal condi-
tions. Prospects are then ranked by increasing algebraic values of (EMV), with
the "best prospect" having the highest positive value. The method has the con-
siderable merit of substituting a quantitative comparative evaluation for
qualitative judgements. However, the larger the range of assumptions, the less
significant the absolute values obtained for (EMV)'s. In addition, consideration
must be given to the value of the information which will be gained from wells
to be drilled first, regardless of their success or failure. The increased
value of their (EMV) is justified accordingly.
Most investors refine the expected prospects' monetary value approach
(EMV) through the use of preference theory concepts, which attempt to account
for the decision-maker's feelings and attitude about capital amounts to be
risked. Several methods are proposed for the calculation of a quantitative para-
meter which could represent the expected preference value of a prospect. The
mission has selected the method of John M. Cozzolino.2/ According to this
method, "risk profile curves" are plotted for every simultaneous prospect; on
such curves, risk adjusted values (RAV) substitute for the single (EMV) value
against the current value of a "risk aversion level" (r), which measures the
inclination and capacity of a specific investor to risk a given budget. The
method offers valuable guidelines for the final ranking of prospects, especially
when prospects simultaneously considered have largely diversified risk and
potential.
1/ Unless otherwise mentioned, wording and symbols used are those of Paul
D. Newendorf in his book "Decision Analysis for Petroleum Exploration"
edited by Petroleum Publishing Company, Tulsa, in 1975.
2/ See Abstract No. 6632 of the Society of Petroleum Engineers of AIME: A
New Method for Measurement and Control of Exploration Risk by John M.
Cozzolino, University of Pennsylvania, presented at the AIME meeting held
in Pittsburgh in October 1977.



ANNEX 4.2
Ali EVALUATION OF PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROSPECTS AND STRATEGY
FOR THE ESSAOUIRA AREA, SOUTH-WEST MOROCCO
Gaffney, Cline & Associates, May 1979
MAIN CONCLUSIONS-L
An initial four well, or Phase I, exploration drilling program for
Triassic and conceivably other horizons of pre-Jurassic age, may be recommended
to a State corporation.
While the one in six exploration success ratio, already recorded in
the Jurassic horizon of the permit areas over ten years, in terms of discoveries
versus total exploration wells, is high by any petroleum industry standard, the
economic outlook for subsequent efforts along the same lines is not encouraging
and a change of emphasis toward deeper pre-Jurassic targets is a credible alterna-
tive in the National interest.
Based upon the current state of knowledge, an exploration program
exclusively directed for objectives in the shallower Jurassic horizon is not
considered to be of sufficient economic merit to justify positive recommenda-
tions. This presumes the minimum economic criteria reasonably applicable to
a State corporation.
None of the twenty-five oil and natural gas exploration prospects
identified within the limits of the Essaouira permit are of sufficient economic
merit to attract exploration funds from the private sector of the petroleum
industry. This conclusion is based upon the outlook enabled by the technical
and costing data made available by BRPM when considered within the framework
of any reasonable interpretation of the prevailing petroleum legislation in
Morocco.
It would be contrary to applied exploration philosophy, having
decided to proceed with programs, to countermand this decision and discontinue
the program for other than the most irrefutable evidence for downgrading
exploration potential.
The well drilling duration times indicated by BRPM appear high con-
sidering i:he drilling equipment available. There should be scope for sub-
stantial improvement in these times and associated costs without jeopardising
the effecitiveness of the overall exploration programs proposed.
There is merit in a strategically specified program of additional
geophysic,al data acquisition to be conducted concurrent with the Phase I
exploration drilling program.
The pre-Jurassic prospect analyses were based upon the most probable
case of yielding dry natural gas, as the evidence currently avaiLable suggests.
However, the possibility of discovering oil or condensate rich gas cannot be
ruled out. Should oil or rich gas be found in economic quantities, the
resultant ultimate economics would be further enhanced.
Unlike the apparent outlook for a program involving Jurassic objec-
tives, the potential rewards of a predominately pre-Jurassic exp:Loration program
are not confined to the economic performance of the components of the program
itself but more to the delineation of a discovery trend of greatesr proportions
for the future..
_/ Abstracts selected by the Mission.



ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 9
THE ESSAOUIRA BASIN: ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECT VALUES
Prospect Grading and Selection
1. Within basi-s where, through past exploration work (geological studies,
seismic surveys and well drilling) likely prospects for oil and gas accumula-
tions have been identified and are ready to be drilled, a strategy for drilling
can be developed through a grading of prospects according to their respec-
tive    merits.  As the exploration matures and the information available
increases, the approach to prospect grading and design of drilling sequences
becomes progressively more rigorous. The methodology, presented below, is
typical of an approach often used in the industry as a guideline to exploration
decisions in basins where exploration is relatively advanced.
The Gaffney Cline Approach
2.        The Bank's consultants on the proposed project, Gaffney Cline &
Associates (GCA) follow a two-phased approach in their appraisal of exploration
prospects. The first phase consists of a geological appraisal prospect by
prospect of the probability of a successful exploration discovery (Sp) and of the
associated level of most likely recoverable reserves. The value of these para-
meters is determined on the basis of:
(a)  the exploration geologist's appreciation of the evidence
for presence of hydrocarbon source rock and occurence of
the migration process in the basin, existence of a reservoir
properly sealed by cover layers, and existence of a structural
trap in which migrated hydrocarbons could have accumulated;
and
(b)  a parallel technical assessment, from prior drilling results
nearby, of the type and quality of hydrocarbons most likely
to be found, the volumetric size of the possible accumulation
(for which seismic data suggests the likely horizontal extent),
the rate of production from the accumulation most likely to
be representative in the event of successful exploration, and
the likely fraction of recoverable reserves from the accumula-
tion should it be found to exist.
3.      The second phase of the GCA prospect study consists of an
evaluation of each prospect based on previously calculated prospect risk and
reserves, projected revenues and costs of development.  The formula used is
as follows:



ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 9
V=Sp (R dcf   Cd   Ce) -(1 -Sp) Ce
where,
Sp = technical probability of exploration success
Rdcf - projected best estimate of potential net operating
'revenue' discounted to present value terms
Ce = exploration cost
Cd m development cost in the event of an oil or gas discovery
V = technically risk appraised prospect 'value'.
4.   The 'successful prospect rate of return' is the discount rate which would
result in a zero 'value' for the prospect when Sp = 1. The 'risk appraised rate
of return" is defined by GCA as the discount rate which woulid result in a zero
value (V) for the prospect at the caluclated value for Sp; t'his is the appropriate
measure of the rate of return on the prospects and is used as such in this
report.
Evaluation and Selection of Prospects for the First Period Exploration Program
in the Eissaouira Basin
5.   In their study for the Bank of the Essaouira Basin, GCA graded the twenty-
five oil and natural gas exploration prospects identified by recent seismic
surveys within the limits of the permit through risk-appraised analyses along
the lines described above. Overall numerical results are included in their
report; the results pertaining to prospects selected for the first project
period are given below. As mentioned in para. 4.12, GCA results led them to
discounlt all Jurassic prospects as submarginal and to recommtend that BRPM
adopt, as a first-phase Essaouira exploration strategy, an initial four-well
drilling program aimed exclusively at the deeper pre-Jurassic horizons.
6.   Another review by an independent explorationist, A. Dumlestre, led him by
contrast to recommend, in addition to the drilling of several pre-Jurassic
prospects, the drilling over the life of the project of at least seven Jurassic
wells.
7.   In selecting a strategy for first period drilling under the project,
comprising three wells in the Jurassic and two wells in the pre-Jurassic, the
mission relied in part on the Gaffney Cline study of the basin, in part on the
recommendations of A. Dumestre, as well as on its own assessments and judgement.
A summary of considerations taken into account in this choice is given below.
Pre-Jurassic Prospects
8.   The two pre-Jurassic prospects chosen for the first period drilling under
the project (Meskala and Oued Tahria) come first in the seqlaence of pre-Jurassic
wells recommended by both GCA and A. Dumestre. A summary of GCA's results on
the two prospects is given in the table below.  Their analyses assumed a
January 1, 1980 reference price for crude oil of US$18.00 per barrel and for



ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of 9
gas of US$2.25 per MCF. Prices were kept constant, and revenues were discounted
at 8%.
First Period pre-Jurassic Drilling
Summary of GCA Expected Results
Prospect                Most Probable         Best Estimate
Hydrocarbon          Recoverable               Sp
Reserves (BCF)
Meskala                      Gas                   73                   0.131
Oued Tahria                 Gas                   145                  0.061
In US$ million                              Successful
prospect
Prospect        Rdcf  C    Cd   V                  ROR                 ROR
Meskala         91.8  4.8  53.7 0.191               8                   18
Oued Tahria   165.8  3.6  79.5 1.665               11                   24
9. A.Dumestre agrees in essence with present GCA estimates of most likely
pre-Jurassic reserves.  Given the present uncertainty with regard to the
existence of a reservoir in these horizons, GCA's present estimates of initial
exploratory risk, as measured by Sp, appear to him also to be essentially
correct.
10. The results are sensitive, in relative degrees, to changes in assumed
economic parameters. The effect on the risk appraised rate of return of a
50% variation in operating cost is 1%, of a 10% variation in price about 2%,
and of a 50% change in drilling cost about 10-15%. Any significant decrease
in drilling costs and/or increase in prices would improve markedly the returns
as presently estimated.
11. As updated by the mission to reflect recent increases in prices (i.e.
current expectations for the opportunity cost of the gas of at least $3 per
Mcf), the rates of return on the prospects would be as given below:
Pre-Jurassic Prospects
Mission Estimates
Successful Prospect
Prospect                      ROR                     ROR
Meskala                        15                       25
Oued Tahria                    17                       30



iNNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 9
12. The GCA analyses assumes, as the present evidence suggesl:s, that the
pre-Jurassic prospects will most likely yield dry natural gas. The possi-
bility of discovering oil or condensate rich gas cannot, however, be ruled
out. If oil or condensates are found in economic quantities, the expected
present value of these prospects would be further enhanced.
13. With eight pre-Jurassic structures already identified in the basin,
the main rationale for the pursuit of pre-Jurassic Essaouira exploration lies
in the perceived potential for the delineation of a large trend. A successful
exploratory investment in either Meskala or Oued Tahria would yield by present
best estimates a real rate of return on each prospect between 25% and 30%.
But this estimate of the likely return on a successful initial investment is
also conservative, since it does not take into account the enhanced probability
of further discoveries in prospects of the same type.
Jurassic Prospects
14. Three Jurassic prospects (Kouba bi Fassiou, Tahrzout and Id el Makhoud)
will be drilled in sequence over the twelve months covering the first project
period. The drilling of these prospects can be recommended, firstly, on
strategic grounds; the information which would be yielded is needed as a guide
to the potential economics of further investment in Jurassic Essaouira, and the
three wells would permit wide geographical coverage of the area.
15. Working on the basis of currently available information, the Bank's con-
sultants, GCA and A. Dumestre, have differed on estimates of the likely levels
of Jurassic reserves and, as a consequence, on the merit of the Jurassic
prospects.
16. GCA's best estimates of reserve levels and of the associated probabilities
of discoveries of these magnitudes have led them to conclude that the potential
reward of Jurassic exploration is not sufficient to justify the exploratory
risk. The trade-off as they view it is reflected in negative present values
for the prospects and negative risk appraised rates of return, as shown in the
table below. The results as presented assume a price of US$18.00 per barrel
of oil and US$2.25 per Mcf of gas.
First Period Jurassic Drilling
Summary of GCA Best Estimate Results
Most Probable                Best Estimate
Prospect                    Hydrocarbon           Recoverable Reserves         Sp
Kouba bi Fassiou                Gas                    3.25 Bcf            0.126
Tahrzout                        Oil                    1.1 Mmibbl          0.152
Id el Makhoud                   Gas                    5.10 Bcf           0.151



ANNEX 4.3
Page 5 of 9
Values in $ Million                     Successful
Prospect             Rdcf       Ce    C_-A        V       ROR      Prospect
ROR
Kouba bi Fassiou   5.64       2.4      4.5   -2.256    < 0            4
Tahrzout           10.39      2.4      9.0   -2.189    ' O            6
Id el Makhoud       6.14      4.3      6.4   -4.339     c0            0
17. The mission views CCA estimates of reserves as unnecessarily and systemati-
cally conservative. GCA have selected certain parameter values of the Toukimt
field as basic references for their evaluation of further prospects. However,(i)
Toukimt has parameter values which are poor by regional standards, and (ii)
the values adopted for Toukimt parameters by GCA are in some cases smaller than
those established by the most reliable studies commissioned by the BRPM,as
illustrated in the table below:
TOUKIMT: Parameter Values
GCA         Other Studies
Closure area (acres)                                  750          700 to 800
Net pay thickness (m)                                  16.5        25 to 35
Porosity (%)                                            3               3
Water saturation (%)                                   30              15
Expected Fluid                                       only gas      gas and condensate
- Best estimate of gas volume
In place Reserves (BCF)                               8.26           15
Recovery Factor (%)                                  70          70 to 93
Recoverable Reserves (BCF)                            5.78       9 to 14
- Best estimate of condensate volume
Recoverable reserves (MMbbls)                        none        .6 to 1.2
Note: the spread of figures accounts for different production schemes, with
or without reinjection of gas, designed to maximize extraction of
associated condensates.
18. A. Dumestre's estimates of likely reserves are, at least, for the prospects
chosen, several times larger than GCA's best estimates (4 Mmbbl of recoverable
oil in Tahrzout, 10 Bcf of natural gas in Id el Makhoud, and 10-20 Bcf of
natural gas in Kouba bi Fassiou). He views GCA's current estimates of Sp as
somewhat optimistic, but of nevertheless a generally reasonable order of magni-
tude.
19. The weight of the current evidence is, in the mission's view, in favour
of A. Dumestre's results. For the purpose of the economic projections, the
reserve estimates taken have been of the order of 3 Mmbbl for Tahrzout, 10
Bcf for Id el Makhoud and 20 Bcf for Kouba bi Fassiou. Kouba's gas reserves
could vary between 10 and 20 Bcf depending on whether the fluid has a 50%
nitrogen content.



ANNEX 4.3
Page 6 of 9
20. Because of the difficulties geologists face in quantifying inter-
pretations of incomplete geological facts, it is not unusual for them to disagree
on precises single estimates of prospect reserves and success probabilities. The
weakness of the consultant's conclusions appears to us to lie in the exclusive
consideration they give to the single best estimate case, when a spread of values
for reserves and success probability is needed to take account of current un-
certainty on these values.
21. Upon the request of the Bank, GCA tested the sensitivity of their prospect
values and risk appraised rates of return to variations in assumed reserves and
success probabilities. A summary of their results is given irl the table below;
they are based also on a price for oil of US$18 per barrel and US$2.25 per
mcf for gas.



ANNEX 4.3
Page 7 of 9
First Period Jurassic Drilling
Summary of GCA Sensitivity Results
Tahrzout
Reserves (Mmbbl)                         Sp                     ROR (%)
Best estimate 1.11               Calculated 0.152                < 0
Minimum required 3.4             Assumed 0.152                     8
Intermediate estimate 9.85       Assumed 0.152                    24
Maximum estimate 18.62           Assumed 0.152                    40
Maximum estimate 18.62           Minimum required 0.02             8
Id el Makhoud
Reserves (Bef)                           Sp                     ROR (%)
Best estimate 5.10               Calculated 0.151                < 0
Intermediate estimate 35.94      Assumed 0.151                     8
Minimum required 36.00           Assumed 0.151                     8
Maximum estimate  66.00          Assumed 0.151                    18
Maximum estimate  66.00          Minimum required 0.070            8
Kouba bi Fassiou -/
Reserves (Bcf)                           Sp                     ROR (%)
Best estimate 3.25               Calculated 0.152                < 0
Maximum estimate 11.00           Assumed 0.152                   ' 0
Minimum required 26.00           Assumed 0.152                     8
Maximum estimate 11.00           Minimum required 0.710            8
Nota: As in the initial GCA study, specific consideration has been given
to the 8% value of ROR.
1/ GCA figures are based on the conservative assumption that reserves would
be gas with a 50% nitrogen content



ANNEX 4.3
Page 8 of 9
22. As shown in the table, if the value of Sp remains constant as the level
of reserves varies:
(i) the minimum level of reserves required for Tahrzout to achieve an
8% risk-appraised rate of return appears to be lower than the reserve
levels expected by Dumestre and, for all the prospects except Kouba
bi Fassiou, smaller by several orders of magnitude than the maximum
estimate of possible reserves made by GCA.
(ii) with reserves between GCA estimated intermediate and maximum possible
levels, an exploration investment could yield a risk appraised rate
of return between 24% and 40% for Tahrzout and betwreen 8% and 18%
for Id el Makhoud.
23. Morieover, for reserve levels at the estimated maximum, a success proba-
bility of only 2% and 7% is sufficient to guarantee an 8% risk appraised rate
of return on Tahrzout and Id el Makhoud, respectively.
24. GCA are right to discount these results on the ground that the probability
of discovering reserves higher than best estimates should be a decreasing
function approaching zero at the maximum estimated level of reserve. Never-
theless, there exists clear evidence that GCA's best estimates of reserves
have been unduly conservative (para.  17  ) and that a reasonable case can be
made for assumed success probabilities in association with the potential reserve
levels adopted by the mission (para. 19 ).
25. Based on these assumptions and the updated price expectations of US$24.00
per barrel of oil and US$3.00 per mcf of gas, the rates of return on the
Jurassic prospects as estimated by the mission are as follows:
Jurassic Prospects
Mission Estimates
Prospect                                        Reserves              ROR
Kouba bi Fassiou                              10-20 Bcf                 9% (average)
Tahrzout                                         3.0 Mmbbl            11%
Id el Makhoud                                    10 Bcf                6%
26. The.se values are sensitive to changes in assumed economic parameters; as
already mentioned for the pre-Jurassic prospects, reduced drilling costs and/or
increased oil prices, which are likely, would improve the returns as presently
estimatetd.
27. Even these results are underestimates of the present value of drilling
these first prospects, since they do not account for the value of information
to be gained for designing an exploration strategy of the dozen remaining
identified structures in the Jurassic Essaouira which may contain cumulatively
up to 3() million barrels of oil and gas equivalent.
28. Quite aside from its effect of improving the chances of further dis-
coveries in prospects of similar type, a significant find in any of the prospects



ANNEX 4.3
Page 9 of 9
could result in high actualized returns.On the basis of the mission's reasonable
assumptions on reserves and on price expectations (paras. 19 and 25    ) the
successful real rate of return on the first period exploration program in
Jurassic Essaouira would be between 15% and 20%.



ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 4
A. Dumestre's Comments on GAFFNEY & CLINE's report
"An Evaluation of Petroleum Exploration Prospects
and Strategy for the Essaouira Area South-West Morocco"
June 1979
Abstracts Selected by the Mission
1. General
It was believed of interest to compare the conclusions of this
report on1 the subject and attempt to determine if, and to what extent, the
analyses may be reconciled into a commonly acceptable drilling programme.
I would first stress that differences of opinion or, rather,
differences in appraisals, between explorationists are the rule in economic
geological analyses. As mentioned in the reports, our analysies are based on
limited information (often inconclusive and/or subject to extreme caution) and
geologists can only offer what they consider their "best" estimates under
difficult and elusive conditions and differences in these estimates do not
imply, even remotely, the least criticism.
2. Points of Agreement
2.1 Number and location of prospects (Jurassic & older)
There is a general agreement as to the number and location of the
prospects. Minor (and resolvable) differences exist: as to the
amount of geophysical work necessary in some cases.
2.2 Potential of Jurassic prospects
Everyone agrees that the Jurassic prospects are limited in size, but
opinions vary as to their possible potential.
2.3 Possible large potential for Triassic (and older objectives)
Although there is as yet no proof for the existence of a good reservoir
*                     below the Jurassic, everyone agrees that if such would be found, it
could have a large potential (most probably gas) on account of a good
salt cover, larger size of closures and greater depth. Let us remark
however that the greater depth (and consequently higher pressure for
gas fields) do not add to reserves, the latter being conditioned by
the generating capacity of the basin.
3. Points of Differences
3.1 Potential reserves for Jurassic prospects
The main point of difference concerns the size of the Jurassic pros-
pects and, consequently, whether their respective economic potentials
justify a test on each in view of the very high cost of drilling.



ANNEX 4.4
PaRe 2 of 4
The BRPM, and myself, feel that drilling is justified at seven
Jurassic prospects while G&C conclude that none of the Jurassic
prospects are worth such a test, even for a tax exempt National
Company.
To be more precise about G&C conclusions it should be stated that,
for none of the Jurassic prospects, the combination of best esti-
mated economic potential and geological risk (Exploration Viability
Factor, or "EVF") is sufficient to justify the exploration investment
(mainly the drilling cost).
3.2 Geological risk
Although not given in the G&C report, the geological risk part of
the "EVF" is felt to be definitely better than the one I would pro-
pose, and particularly so for the prospect located on the flanks of
the Tidsi diapir. This factor (which is by nature highly subjective)
somewhat compensates the very low "best estimates" for reserves of
the Jurassic prospects in the G&C reports but not sufficiently to
bring them into the recommended category.
It is to be remarked however that there is a considerable spread
between G&C "best estimates" and their "maximum reserves" estimates
for each prospect. This spread ranges from 3 to 18 and is superior
to 10 on the 6 prospects selected by BRPM. Given the uncertainties
in the evaluation of geologic parameters, such large spread is not
all surprising and well reflect the difficulty of the problem. It
may also be pointed out that there is a large divergence between the
G&C and the BRPM estimation of reserves even in a proven field (N'Dark).
3.3 Differences in economic parameters used
We have some differences in the economic parameters used and, parti-
cularly on account of recent increases in the price of oil, G&C's
figures are felt conservative.
As we now know, price of oil (and gas) should be taken at least 20%
higher for the immediate term and a price escalation should be used
since the rate of return has been discounted.
However, as pointed out by G&C, the impact of such "improvements"
is not very large since it is reduced by the geological risk factor
in these risk-appraised evaluations.
3.4 Differences in "logics"
The G&C evaluation is a prospect by prospect appraisal, each of those
having to stand on its own risk-appraised merit. This approach
certainly applies to an investor having to chose only one prospect
of a particular type (assuming that the "geological risk" factor in the "EVF"
has been thus estimated).



ANNEX 4.4
Page 3 of 4
However, BRPM's case is different. It disposes in fact of a large
number of prospects and may reasonably expect that a success in one
would immediately increase the chances of discovery in the remaining
prospects of the same type. It would therefore seem logical to
increase the economic value of each prospect to be drilled by the
value of expected reserves in the undrilled prospects of the same
type, multiplied by the increase in the respective "chance of dis-
covery" percentage.
The larger the expected reserves and the higher the initial geological
risk, the higher will be the increase. Triassic prospects would
therefore be the most sensitive to this approach but some of the
Jurassic prospects, particularly the more "risky"t, may also be thus
brought into the "viable" category.
4.  Possibility of a Synthesis of the Positions (G&C, BRPM & A.D.)
4.1 It appears that the "gap" between the positions related to Jurassic
exploration would seriously be reduced under the foLlowing conditions:
a)  significant reduction in drilling costs.  It could also be
suggested that the drilling costs considered be the "incremental"
costs or, basically the difference between the cost of the equip-
ment in operation and its cost to BRPM while idle.
b) slight shift in G&C "best estimates" of reserves, particularly
so in prospects where recognized possible maximum reserves are
10 to 20 times the "best estimates".
c)  increase in products value (present and future) to take recent
increases into consideration.
d) considering the prospects of the same type as inter-related
instead of case by case.
It is our feeling that this could be the case for at least the first
well in each prospect type (assuming that condition "d" above is
acceptable). This "feeling" is certainly warranted by comparison
with exploration in the U.S. or Canada as it can safely be said that
an "Essaouira petroleum play", with its positive (no tax nor acquisition
costs) as well as negative points (high drilling costs), placed in the
U.S., would see each of its main prospects drilled at least once. It
is true that there are incentives proper to the U.S. (tax money, write-
offs, etc.) but it is also true that there are few, if any, land
positions as large and as attractive (particularly so when considering
BRPM's exclusive on all Moroccan basins) as that of BRPM.
4.2  Possible "compromise" programme
a) Jurassic play:
Applying the arguments exposed above, a first selection could be
proposed among the 7 prospects selected by BRPM by chosing the
best of each "type" among the tests listed below:



ANNEX 4.4
Page 4 of 4
- diapir flanks: Tidourine, Tahzout, West Toukimt (or Id el Majhoud).
- anticlines: Zelten, N'Dark South (or Kouba bi Facium), Dar Kadar.
- fault trap: N.W. Sidi Rhalem.
b)  Triisic play (and deeper):
There is agreement for drilling some of these prospects but differences
as to which, and in which sequence.
Two prospects (Meskala and Oued Tahria) appear on both priority lists
and therefore can be retained without question.



WORLD BANK / INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
A'      4.5
OFFICE MEMORANDUM                                   Page 1 of 2
TO:  Files                                                      DATE  December 21, 1979
FROM:  Geologic Panel EGYPP
SUBJECT.  MOROC(O:  Petroleum Exploration Project
Assessment of the Exploration Program Prepared by the Mission
1.        A panel of geologists in the Energy Department was requested to
assess the exploration program proposed under the Morocco Petroleum Project,
and more particularly, the justification of the first phase, i.e. explora-
tion of the Essaouira permit. This memo is intended to provide a complete
clarification of their final opinion.
2.        The Government of Morocco (GOM) has requested the Bank to provide
financial and technical assistance in petroleum exploration to the Government
oil company (BRPM). BRPM's planned exploration activity is not a grass-root
effort but is part of a continuing program to test remaining prospects in
an already producing basin (Essaouira) and to develop leads in other basins
to attract foreign investment. Given the dual objectives of the proposed pro-
gram, one concern of the Bank is the manner and timing of entry into such
ventures. Obviously entering a new or static program is much simpler as
each step can be carefully tailored to a planned result. This is not the
case with ongoing programs such as that of BRPM, nor will it likely be with
future Bank assistance to exploration in most other countries. Therefore,
the Bank in designing a project may often need to fit its intervention into
dynamic situations and take account of sunk costs in prior exploration.
This will usually require some form of necessary adjustment to a practical
situation in the initial phase before an optimum assistance program can be
developed.
3.        With specific regard to the first phase, exploratory drilling on
the Essaouira permit, it should be noted that BRPM has acquired recent good
quality seismic data which defines a number of untested prospects in this
already productive basin. Further, BRPM has drilling equipment available
and is currently active on an exploratory well in this ariea. Identified
prospects are of two types: (a) Jurassic reservoirs mix,ed limestone and
sandstone, on salt-supported and fault-related structures; and (b) deeper
pre-Jurassic structures of a similar type, with precise r,eservoirs not
currently identified, probably Permo-Triassic sandstones. Older Paleozoic
prospects probably exist as well, but at great depth, with their presence
obscured by the intervening layer of Permo-Triassic salt, both bedded and
diapiric. The Jurassic prospects carry a relatively low risk but, based
on fi'elds found to date, are more likely to be gas than oil (four gas
fields and one oil field established thus far) and quite small in size.
The pre-Jurassic prospects are larger, expected to be gas only (perhaps
with condensate) and because of less data available, carry a high risk.
The pre-Jurassic is further complicated by the known presence of volcanics
and red beds in the section (which diminish prospectiveness for oil and
gas) and are likely to be overpressured, posing difficulties in drilling.
In addition pre-Jurassic structures do not precisely underly the Jurassic
prospects, requiring two separate drilling programs.



ANNEX 4.5
Page 2 of 2
Files                               - 2 -                      December 21, 1979
4.        Nevertheless, by accepted exploration standards, it is in the
interest of BRPM to conclude the evaluation of the Essaouirn permit. Economic
analyses made by others indicate a satisfactory, if low, return on the risk
investment. The panel therefore endorses the first phase of the proposed
project for Bank assistance, i.e., three exploratory wells selectively chosen
on Jurassic prospects and two pre-Jurassic tests, also selectively chosen to
provide maximum information for this interval. The results obtained from
these wells, plus the proposed extension of seismic coverage, when integrated
with prior data should provide sufficient information to complete the evalua-
tion of the geologically complex Essaouira Basin and to determine whether or
not additional exploration is warranted. The panel strongly supports the
proposed study at the conclusion of this phase prior to any further Bank
assistance to BRPM exploration in this area.
5.        The panel also endorses the proposed study of other basins onshore
Morocco, regional in scope, with particular emphasis on those areas in which
no exploration is currently underway. The results of this effort should pro-
vide the basis for the exploration programs in the second and later phases of
the proposed project. This study is expected to provide both new information
and guidance for the acquisition of new data, as indicated in the Project
Appraisal Report, which should achieve the Bank's objective of interesting
foreign oil companies into exploration association contracts with BRPM. The
panel would not endorse the project if either the Essaouira study or regional
studies were not included.
6.        In summary, the panel concurs that Morocco has a significant
unexplored petroleum potential and endorses the proposed Morocco exploration
project in its entirety. The first phase, Essaouira drilling, should complete
the evaluation of a productive basin in which the prospects are either too
small, too risky, or too gas prone to attract foreign investors. The Bank's
technical and financial assistance in this phase will provide BRPM with
necessary support in an area where they have previously invested in seismic sur-
veys, have defined prospects, and may be forced to idle drilling equipment
and personnel if assistance is not provided. While the greater value of the
project, insofar as Bank objectives are concerned, are more likely to be
obtained in second and later phases, the panel recommends that the proposed
Morocco exploration project be approved as outlined in the Staff Appraisal
Report.



ANNEX 4.6
WORK PROGRAM FOR THE INITIAL PERIOD
Months         0      1       2       3      4       5       6      7       8      9       10       11
Drilling
H 1700                 Meskala (3,800 m)       $3.5 million                           ? Jeer ?
H 1700                                                       Oued Tahria (3,000 m)  $2.6 million
H 525                  Kouba di Faciou             Tahrzout                   Id el Makhoud      ?
(2,000 m) $1.5 million  (2,500 m) $2.1 millior  (2,500 m)  $2.0 million
Seismic                     Boudnib                                Essaouira
(400 km)   $1.5 million               (400 km)   $1.7 million
Studies          Essaouira and other basins             Report to Bank
BRPM Staff and Consultants             on further programs
Others                   H 1700
Reconditioning
Seismic Unit



ANNEX 4.7
Page 1 of 3
ASSUMPTIONS ON PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
(End 1979 Prices)
SEISMIC SURVEYS
S-ismic surveys will be carried out through the use of two
different methods:
(i) the conventional method which requires the shooting of
explosives laid down in multiple shallow holes drilled by
a fleet of light truck-mounted rigs. The proposed 18 month
program will be directed mostly to surveying deep to very
deep "reflectors" in remote or hilly areas. Costs, including
explosives, data recording and processing, would range between
$360,000 and $420,000 per party/month; and
(ii) a non-conventional method for which vibrator equipment is
substituted for explosives. Although performances are
generally less sophisticated, the method will be cost efficient
for surveying selected areas under a proposed 18 month program.
Costs would range between $310,000 and $350,000 per party/month.
Estimated costs are therefore:
18 months x $390,000 per month = $7,020,000
18 months x $330,000 per month  =  $5,940,000
Total:    $12,960,000
Note: This amount does not include the cost of initial rehabilitation of
the conventional seismic equipment owned by BRPM.
WELL DRILLING
BRPM will make use of a medium rig H 525 and two deep rigs H 1700
to drill wells of final depth ranging from 2,000 to 5,000 meters. Performances
(actual footage per hour or total duration of a well of given final depth) and
corresponding costs vary greatly with rig used, in-depth rock characteristics,
fluids in the formations, special operations needed, final depth reached, and
equipment required for completion. The mission has thus selected to use an
average unit cost per rig-month.
The proposed 100 rig-month program is tentatively composed as
follows:
H 525   8 wells, 28 drilling months, and 8 site preparations and
rig move-in/move-out operations of assumed one-month duration
H 1700  5 wells,  32 drilling months and 4 months of above related
operations
H 1700  4 wells, 25 drilling months and 3 months of above-related
operations.
Costs have been assessed to range from $400,000 to $460,000 and from
$320,000 to $360,000 per month of drilling activity and per month of related
operations, respectively.



ANNEX 4.7
Page 2 of 3
Project cost estimates for costs of the proposed well drilling
program are consequently:
(28 plus 32 plus 25) months x $430,000 per month = $36,550,000
(8 plus 4 plus 3)   months x $340,000 per month = $ 5,100,000
$41,650,000
Note: This amount does not include the cost of initial rehabilitation and
subsequent maintenance and repairs of BRPM's drilling equipment.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Experts will assist the BRPM in exploration, drilling and
accounting, respectively.
(i) The explorationist will be assigned first fuLl-time, then part-
time, and will be supplemented by prospect evaluation studies
commissioned to specialized consulting engineers;
(ii) The drilling expert will be assigned first fuLl-time and will
propose a program of actions for improvement of drilling per-
formances, likely through the permanent assignment of foreign
supervisors or toolpushers, and the use of exiternal services
for exceptional situations in on-going wells; and
(iii) The accounting expert will be assigned full-t:ime at the
beginning of the project; subsequently, auditing will be done
every semester and every year.
In addition, feasibility studies will be commissioned eventually,
and laboratory expertise and equipment will be procured as needed.
Schedule and foreign exchange cost of above services have been
tentatively forecast as follows:



TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(Average)
X @     I.  Petroleum                                          Years              Project's               Unit Cost      Cost
w N                                                  1           2           3      End        Total      US$            US$
A.  CONSULTANTS (man-months)                                                       125                   1,381,000
Exploration expert                1    3      1    2    1      1    2        10 to 20   15,000         225,000
Drilling expert                   6    4      3    4    4      3              24 to 30   15,000        405,000
Drilling specialists                  12    24   24    9       9              78 to 66    8,000        576,000
Accounting expert              2 to 3                                          2 to 3    15,000         40,000
Auditor                           1    2      1    2    1            2         9          15,000       135,000
B.  EXTERNAL STUDIES (numbers)                                                      25 1/                2,075,000
Prospects evaluation               2       2       3       2   1                10        50,000       500,000
Feasibility studies               2           2          2                       6      150,000        900,000
Drilling exceptional              3           3          3                       9        75,000       675,000
situations
C.  LABORATORY EXPERTISE AND EQUIPMENT                                          (provisional)              500,000
II. Oil Shale
Initial assistance to oil shale development by consultants and through   (provisional)                   1,000,000
specific studies
Budget (rounded off)   5,000,000
1/ These 25 studies are estimated to require an equivalent amount of 200 man-months of consulting
services.



ANNEX 4.8
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF BANK DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ thousands)
Bank Fiscal Year               Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter               during Quarter               at End of Quarter
1980
March 31, 1980                   3,000                         3,000
June 30, 1980                    5,000                         8,000
1981
September 30, 1980               4,700                        12,700
December 31, 1980                3,200                        15,900
March 31, 1981                   3,100                        19,000
June 30, 1981                    3,300                        22,300
1982
September 30, 1981               3,200                        25,500
December 31, 1981                3,400                        28,900
March 31, 1982                   3,300                        32,200
June 30, 1982                    3,500                        35,700
1983
September 30, 1982               3,500                        39,200
December 31, 1982                3,600                        42,800
March 31, 1982                   3,600                        46,400
June 30, 1L982                    3,600                       50,000
February 19, 1980



