Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2756-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUITIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BUREAU DE RECHERCHES ET DE PARTICIPATIONS MINIERES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
March 27, 1980
T   d" cmu  e a rot= Iktd dtribus. mnd may be and by rmpients dy o the peomnnce of
theiroffcha dute.. Is cotets maY  o otherwie be  clsd without World  ank =ub.sdzados.



MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00                                 DH 3.70
DH 1.00                                 US$0.27
FISCAL YEAR: JANUARY 1 - DECEMBER 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 ton                                   2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)      2                 0.6 miles
1 square kilometer (km )                0.4 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                      6.29 barrels (bbl)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRPM                                    Bureau de Recherches et de
Participations Miniares
Ministry of Energy and Mines
ONE                                     Office National de 1'Electricite



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM)
Guarantor:           The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:              US$50 million
Terms:               Ten years, including four years of grace, at 8.25 percent
interest per annum. It would be refinanced, in whole or
in part, at the Bank's option, by any subsequent Bank loan
for development or production of petroleum resources
identified under the project. In the case that the Bank,
BRPM and the Government agree by March 31, 1984 that the
project has failed to identify petroleum resources whose
exploitation is commercially feasible, the term of the
loan would be extended to 17 years.
Project
Description:        The proposed project will contribute to Morocco's efforts
to accelerate the exploration and development of its
petroleum potential. It will help BRPM (i) complete the
exploration of producing areas, where marginal prospects
still exist which may be developed economically, and (ii)
assess the petroleum potential of basins yet unexplored
and develop "leads" which could attract foreign invest-
ments. The project will also provide technical assistance
to BRPM in prospect evaluation, exploration management,
accounting, evaluation of the results of exploration and
the technical and economic analysis of any petroleum
discoveries. It would also provide consultant assistance
to BRPM for the evaluation of options for exploiting oil
shale reserves. The average man-month cost of consultants
is estimated at $10,000 including international travel and
subsistence. The proposed exploration program would
support existing BRPM staff and equipment to explore for
oil and gas in up to five petroleum basins by a program
involving 36 party-months of seismic survey, 100 rig-months
to drill about 17 exploratory wells and related operations
including site preparation, access roads, water supply,
and equipment transportation, plus supporting specialized
services and specific studies. The project will accel-
erate Moroccan efforts to reduce dependency on imported
petroleum, and would generate exploration leads which
could be attractive for foreign oil companies. Risk
will be monitored throughout project implementation by
consultations among the Bank, BRPM, and consultants,
drawing on successive exploration results.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project Cost
Estimates:                                                 US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Seismic Survcys (36 party months for
3,400 line kms)                                   6.0       9.0      15.0
Well Drilling (100 rig months for
17 wells totalling 50,000 meters)                24.5      29.5      54.0
Technical Assistance (including
laboratory equipment)                             5.0       5.0      10.0
Price contingencies                                4.5        6.5     11.0
Total                                             40.0       50.0     90.0
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Millions
Local   Foreign   Total
Bank loan                                          -        50.0      50.0
BRPM                                              40.0         -      40.0
Total                                             40.0      50.0      90.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                              US$ Millions
FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                                             8.0   14.3   13.4   14.3
Cumulative                                        8.0   22.3   35.7   50.0
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No.2735a-MOR dated March 7, 1980



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE BUREAU DE RECHERCHES ET DE PARTICIPATIONS MINIERES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM), with the
guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$50 million to
help finance a Petroleum Exploration Project. The loan would have a term of
10 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
It would be refinanLed, in whole or in part, at the Bank's option, by any sub-
sequent Bank loan for development or production of petroleum resources identi-
fied under the project. In the case that the Bank, BRPM and the Moroccan
Government agree by March 31, 1984 that the project has failed to identify
petroleum resources whose exploitation is commercially feasible, the term of
the loan would be extended to 17 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-
MOR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic
mission visited Morocco in February/March 1978, followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978, and updating missions in September and December
1979. A draft basic economic report was discussed with the Government at the
end of 1979, and is due to be issued in mid-1980. Preliminary findings and
conclusions of this report and the missions are reflected in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco's political system moved in the direction of a
constitutional monarchy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over
the Western Sahara issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and
national elections between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties
with platforms stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections
in the larger cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents
supported Government candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141
seats out of 264 in the National Assembly. With the Government formed in
October 1977, both the Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since
1963, and the Mouvement Populaire whose main support is in the Berber popula-
tion returned to power. The Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare
and implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives set
out in the 1973-77 Development Plan. A new Cabinet formed in March 1979 is
pursuing the same policies.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly unbal-
anced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. The rapid growth of investments and
imports which occurred in 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues had reached
1/   This Part updates paragraphs 2 to 17 of the President's Report No.
P-2618-MOR on a Loan for a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project,
dated August 22, 1979, approved on September 11, 1979.



- 2 -
an all-time high, continued in 1976-77, while the world demand for Morocco's
main exports, especially phosphate, weakened. At the same time, efforts to
increase budgetary savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in
investment and military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced a
large resource gap (22 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (17 percent
of GDP). These imbalances have since been reduced, but continue to be substan-
tial (12 and 8 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1979). During this period,
Morocco resorted to external borrowing on a large scale. Gross disbursements
on public medium and long term loans rose to about $1.3 billion in 1977, as
compared to $600-$700 million annually in 1975-76, and less than $300 million
a year in the early 1970s. This substantial increase was achieved mainly
through increases in borrowing from Arab and commercial sources. Since then,
the level of external public borrowing, in particular from commercial banks,
has been curtailed to about $1 billion annually in an effort to moderate the
growth of debt service payments. On the domestic side, monetary expansion,
though it remained rapid, abated somewhat in 1979, reflecting reduced Treasury
borrowing in that year. Consumer prices rose 9.7 percent in 1978 and 8.3
percent in 1979.
5.        The Government has now succeeded in regaining a measure of control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. This was achieved through budgetary
austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint in current
spending and some tax increases. Public investment was reduced by nearly 40
percent in 1978 and continued to be severely restrained in 1979. In addition,
in 1979, government revenue increased nearly 20 percent with a set of emergency
tax measures adopted at midyear. Finally, import restrictions and controls on
private credit were applied in 1978 and intensified in 1979. The impact of
these policies was a significant deceleration of growth. In 1978, a good
agricultural crop helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in industry
and construction largely resulting from the public investment cuts. In 1979,
there was some recovery of activity in the secondary sector, particularly
mining. Overall, GDP grew by about 3 percent a year in 1978 and 1979, against
7 percent in 1973-77.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gap and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives were to reduce the
budget and current balance of payments deficits and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popu-
lation groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria was to be postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth
in the private sector were to be strengthened.
7.        The financial stringency required to rebalance the economy has
limited the scope for stepping up social programs in the past two years and
the Government is anxious to resume the more dynamic social policy stance



- 3 -
which characterized Moroccan development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation
of the 1981-85 Plan has begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms
which are needed if a resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is
to be achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.        Bank projections summarized in Annex I assume sharp structural
adjustments to keep the economy on a financially viable growth path over the
long run, and also reflect the desire to maintain adequate GDP and employment
growth during the stabilization period, and to achieve further progress to-
wards the country's social objectives. The projections suggest that invest-
ment would have to be restrained and GDP growth would remain modest for the
next several years. During this period, Morocco will need substantial capital
transfers from abroad on terms as favorable as possible to sustain project
investment and GDP growth at 3 to 4 percent per year. After the required
adjustment has been made, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.        Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic
savings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, to permit some real expansion of original
investment programs, and to undertake large capital-intensive projects geared
to import substitution (in particular for sugar, chemicals, shipping and
steel). Thus the GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment
rose to nearly 32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972.
In the process, Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects
not only in traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution
industries and physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult
sectors such as rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and
socially-oriented programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve
the investment levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints
being domestic savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings. Successful efforts to raise public revenues were offset by increases
in current government spending, particularly for education and health, as
well as for price subsidies and defense. Tax reform measures and unpopular
price policy decisions, such as reduction of subsidies to urban consumers,
farmers and industrial investors, will be required to increase public savings.
Interest rate adjustments to reflect changes in the rate of domestic price
inflation would also be called for.
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 4 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions such as textiles, export production
and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought. Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC, especially



- 4 -
France. Morocco would have considerable export potential if only products and
markets were diversified. Programs designed to boost foreign exchange earn-
ings are now under preparation particularly for phosphate and its derivatives,
fresh and processed foodstuffs, and tourism.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should delay or shift away from highly capital-intensive,
import substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for
physical infrastructure. A changed investment pattern should reduce the
external resource gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at
lower investment and import costs than in recent years. This would call for
improvements in policy planning and investment programming. The 1978-80 Plan
started implementing a new industrial investment strategy, which should
facilitate better investment selection.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption by the weaker sections of Morocco's population. As a major
objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends. The Government's
strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of employment creation;
(ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and (iii) specific invest-
ment programs to benefit the least favored population groups.
14.       Some progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed
by increased expenditures for social sectors (from 5 percent of GDP in 1972
to 8 percent in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco may not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors; some cuts were made in 1978 as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
External Debt and Debt Service
15.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 18 to 11
years and average interest rose from 5.2 to 7.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. From
the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly to an esti-
mated $5.2 billion (disbursed only) by December 1979. 1/ In 1979 debt service
1/   A recent debt mission has revised this estimate to about $6 billion.  The
new estimate for debt service in 1979 has been increased to about $800
million.



amounted to $750 million (nearly 22 percent of total exports of goods and
services, including workers' remittances). As a result of recent and pro-
jected borrowings, debt and debt service may be expected to increase further
in the years immediately ahead, with the debt service ratio reaching 24 to 25
percent in 1980-85, but declining progressively thereafter. The country's net
foreign assets would remain at a relatively low level. Because of the growing
burden of debt service, external debt management has become more restrictive
and selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will
have to continue this policy over the next few years. Additional commercial
borrowing should be limited, and efforts should be continued to seek loans
on softer terms. Overall, external borrowing needs would remain sizeable in
1980-85, ranging between $1 and 1.5 billion. However, in view of the deter-
mined effort being made by the Government to regain control of domestic demand
and with good long term prospects for exports and, in particular, assured
sales of phosphate rock and derivatives, Morocco continues to be creditworthy
for further Bank lending.
16.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateral official sources
to Morocco rose from $286 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and to
$862 million in 1977, dropping to $434 million in 1978. Major sources of aid
were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At
the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 10
percent in 1978. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 17 percent and 14 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 44 projects, financing
a total of $1,325.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $840 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling $50 million,
have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for $25
million for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $42.9 million ($40.8 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1980, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects. In some cases, delays in project
implementation have been caused by management difficulties; however, overall
performance in project execution has been improving and remains satisfactory.
Total disbursements as of December 31, 1979, amounted to 70 percent of original
appraisal forecasts, and 73 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 38 and 27 percent respec-
tively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (13
percent), education (12 percent), tourism (5 percent), roads (3 percent),



- 6 -
and urban development (1 percent). While limited as regards the transfer of
resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 3.2 percent
of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the main objectives
of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in Morocco were to
foster and strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance
especially for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order
to improve the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, over the last few years, greater
emphasis has been given to preparing projects that support the Government's
policy of fostering social development and improving income distribution. An
increasing share of Bank Group lending is being devoted to projects directly
or indirectly developing the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural
income groups and meeting their basic needs.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit, agroindustries and, starting in FY1975, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to supporting small farmers
and shepherds and the development of rainfed areas. The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these objec-
tives in the favorable cereal producing zone. An agricultural development and
erosion control project in the Loukkos area will be submitted to the Executive
Directors shortly. It would address major issues in developing Morocco's
relatively densely populated but poorly endowed mountainous regions, and is
expected to have a significant poverty impact. An extensive livestock project
in central Morocco and an integrated rural development project in the Khemisset
province are also under preparation. A fourth line of credit to the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) and a loan providing investment and credit for
vegetable production and marketing, particularly for export, were approved in
FY1979 and FY1980, respectively.
21.       In the transportation sector, a proposed Third Highways Project is
being submitted to the consideration of the Executive Directors. The project
would help the Government protect its past investments in the road network by
bringing into operation a rational system of road maintenance and by initiat-
ing a long-term program of pavement resurfacing and strengthening.
22.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints.  The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. This pilot
effort led to the recently approved Integrated Project for Small Scale Industry
Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978 will help increase
Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending for industry through
the BNDE is contemplated as well as lending for industrial estates, and further
lending to the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
23.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of two loans for water
supply, two loans for power generation, a loan for village electrification



- 7 -
and an engineering loan for the preparation of a sewerage project for Casa-
blanca. A third water supply project, designed to provide access to safe
water for small towns and semi-rural areas as well as for low-income population
in the larger cities, is under preparation.
24.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education was approved in FY1979 and preparation has begun on a
fifth project focusing on technical training and research, teacher training
and rural primary school facilities.
25.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY1978) was the first Bank-financed project
in the urban sector. Preparation of a follow up project is nearing completion
and would support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban devel-
opment through the provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social
services and the creation of employment opportunities in Meknes and Kenitra.
26.       A family health project is under preparation with the Ministry of
Public Health as a first phase of the Government's program to extend basic
health services, particularly in rural areas, including improvements in
nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning programs, as well as
providing support to the Ministry of Public Health in planning and administering
its programs.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Morocco's Energy Balance
27.       Oil provides a large and growing portion of Morocco's total energy
needs, rising from 64 percent in 1961 to 79 percent in 1978, and is projected
to provide nearly 90 percent of Morocco's energy by 1990. The country's
annual oil import bill was DH 1.8 million ($450 million) in 1978 and may
reach DH 2.7 billion by 1980, overtaking export earnings from phosphates
and derivatives and approaching 18 percent of total imports. Known oil
deposits are nearly depleted, and proven gas reserves are small, although
there are indications for additional reserves. Large deposits of oil shale
exist, but their development has yet to be justified economically. Coal and
hydropower, the most significant domestic energy sources, have limited growth
prospects. Indeed, the contribution of hydropower has dropped from 18 percent
of the total energy supply in 1964 to below 9 percent in 1978. Because
alternative sources of energy do not have immediate promise, it is essential
for the Moroccan Government to promote further petroleum exploration to try to
reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the economy, particularly if
Morocco's development efforts to industrialize, mechanize agriculture, and
improve rural access to energy are not to be jeopardized by excessive energy
costs or fuel shortages.
Domestic Energy Sources
28.       Anthracite coal at Jerada is the primary fossil fuel resource, and
no other economic deposits of coal have been discovered. About 90 percent of



- 8 -
Jerada's production is used for electric power generation. Its production of
830,000 tons in 1978 supplied about 10 percent of domestic demand for primary
energy. Plans call for production of one million tons by 1981.
29.       There al. three main hydroelectric power basins (Moulouya, Sebou,
and Oum R'Bia rivers). Future hydroelectric power development is limited by
short rainy seasons and priority irrigation projects which compete for water,
although plans call for rapid exploitation of the remaining potential, doubl-
ing the present average annual hydropower generation of about 1,470 GWh by
1990.
30.       Domestic petroleum has made a small contribution to Morocco's energy
balance. Production so far, mainly from the Rharb field, has amounted to 3
million tons of oil equivalent. However, known oil fields are almost depleted,
and oil production is down from 3,000 barrels per day in 1963 (15 percent of
needs) to 486 barrels per day in 1978, less than 1 percent of needs. Annual
gas production of 81 million cubic meters presently meets only 1.3 percent of
total energy demand. Estimated recoverable petroleum reserves are at present
only in the range of 10 to 30 million tons of oil equivalent. It is this
bleak picture which the proposed project is designed to address.
31.       The country's large undeveloped oil shale resources promise a crude
oil equivalent of perhaps more than 1 billion tons if economic production can
be developed. In Timahdit in the Atlas mountains, proven reserves total 1.7
billion tons of shale yielding 100 liters per ton, plus probable reserves up
to 10 billion tons yielding 74 liters per ton. The Tarfaya reserves on the
southern Atlantic coast, yielding 80 liters per ton, are of the same order of
magnitude. There are four development alternatives under active study: (i)
direct burning in a power plant to be built in Timahdit with Soviet technical
assistance; (ii) extraction and distillation in a pilot plant being prepared
with the U.S. Department of Energy; (iii) in situ distillation underground
under contract with Occidental Petroleum;  and (iv) a labor-intensive scheme
for surface extraction and distillation in artisanal retorts, usable even for
small reserves. Under the proposed project, the Bank would provide technical
assistance to assess the last approach, and compare it with the other proposed
methods.
32.       Alternative energy sources are not promising.  The uranium content
of Moroccan phosphate appears presently uneconomic for use as fuel. The
USAID-supported Institute for Solar Energy Studies at Marrakech is studving
possible solar energy technology; wind energy development seems likely only on
a small scale, and known geothermal energy has very limited potential.
Energy Consumption
33.       Despite annual increases averaging 8 percent per capita in energy
consumption over the period 1961-78, Morocco's consumption remains at the low
end of the international scale (0.18 tons of oil equivalent/capita in 1976
compared to an international average of 1.31). Oil is mainly imported as
crude for two refineries with a combined capacity of 5 million tons per year
in 1978. Half of oil consumption is accounted for by motor fuels; the balance



- 9 -
is used for fuel oil (43 percent) and for kerosene and liquid petroleum gas (7
percent). Three-quarters of the fuel oil goes to four industries: electric
power (25 percent), cement (20 percent), phosphates (18 percent), and sugar
(12 percent).
Energy, Pricing and Policy
34.       Energy prices are fixed by the Government and generally reflect
international prices. Subsidies have recently been removed on petroleum
products except for liquid petroleum gas which increasingly substitutes for
kerosene for domestic use. In the power subsector, the Government also plans
to eliminate existing subsidies and has agreed to review with the Bank all
future changes in the electricity tariff structure (Loan 1695-MOR).
35.       In order to decrease the country's dependence on imported oil and
assure a minimum supply of energy for future needs, the Government continues
to give priority to (i) accelerating exploration for oil and gas, (ii) acquir-
ing technology for development of oil shale deposits, and (iii) promoting
conservation in energy consumption by maintaining prices of energy resources
in line with their opportunity cost to the economy. During the 1973-77 Plan,
total investment in the energy sector was three times that of the previous
period, reaching DH 3.2 billion, of which 16 percent was spent on exploration
for oil and gas. Subsequently, austerity requirements led to substantial cuts
in all public energy sector investments, and to increased Government efforts
to obtain foreign investment for future exploration.
Sector Organization
36.       The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is responsible for overall
planning and policy making in the energy sector. It was created in 1977 to
consolidate Government activities in several subsectors. The Ministry has two
main operating departments - Energy and Mines. The Energy Department has
three divisions - Oil, Electric Power, and New Sources of Energy. In addi-
tion, the Ministry oversees several public enterprises which manage key energy
sector activities: (i) the Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
(BRPM) in oil and gas exploration and production, (ii) the Societe Anonyme
Marocaine de l'Industrie du Raffinage (SAMIR) and the 50 percent BRPM-owned
Societe Cherifienne des Petroles (SCP) in oil refining, (iii) the Societe
Nationale des Produits Petroliers (SNPP) in the distribution of petroleum
products, and (iv) the 100 percent BRPM-owned Charbonnages Nord-Africains
(CNA), operator of the Jerada coal mine. The Ministry also has administrative
control over the Office National de l'Electricite (ONE).
37.       Morocco's largest refinery at the port of Mohammedia is 100 percent
government-owned (SAMIR). Its refining capacity is being expanded to 5.7
million tons per annum. A second smaller, inland refinery at Sidi Kacem is
operated by the 50 percent BRPM-owned SCP and has a 0.8 million ton annual
capacity. Distribution of oil products, either imported or locally refined,
is carried out by joint affiliates of international oil companies and SNPP.



- 10 -
38.       In the power subsector, ONE generates 90 percent of electric power
in the country, transmits it to load centers, and distributes about 40 percent
of its production outside the large cities. Distribution of power in large
urban areas is handled by thirteen Regies, autonomous public enterprises under
the Ministry of the Interior, which also helps plan development of infrastruc-
tural facilities in rural areas, including a Bank-supported village electrifi-
cation program being implemented by ONE.
Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres (BRPM)
39.       BRPM is responsible for (i) exploration of oil and gas, either on
its own or through joint ventures with foreign companies, (ii) production of
small gas fields on its permits, (iii) prospection and production of all
mineral sources except phosphates, and (iv) management of Government port-
folios in about two dozen firms in the energy and minerals sectors. It was
created in 1928 as a State mining enterprise. In 1958, petroleum exploration
was added to its responsibilities. It has holdings in mineral operations
throughout Morocco, and participation agreements with several foreign investors
for petroleum exploration. The Minister of Energy and Mines is Vice-President
of BRPM's Board of Directors, which is headed by the Prime Minister and
includes the Ministers of Finance, Interior, Labor, and Public Works, the
Heads of the Planning and Economic Affairs authorities, and MEM's Director of
Energy and Mines. BRPM's General Manager is assisted by a Secretary General
and seven division heads, who led BRPM through unprecedented expansion in all
areas during the 1973-77 Plan period.
40.       BRPM's divisions are organized along functional lines as described
below:
(i) The Petroleum Exploration Division plans and supervises BRPM's
petroleum exploration activity. This division, which would manage
the implementation of the project, has undertaken investment in
these activities amounting to about $83 million in the 1973-1977
Plan period. It is, at present, staffed with trained geologists
and geophysicists, and has country-wide data drawn from both its
own past experience and the activity of BRPM's foreign partners.
The division has played a critical role in the negotiations of
more than fifty participation agreements with foreign oil groups.
It has had regular access to foreign technical expertise and
services for work related to its drilling and seismic operations.
(ii) The Mineral Exploration Division plans and supervises BRPM's own
activity in this field. This division, which is presently staffed
with mineral geologists and geophysicists, has managed an investment
program in mineral exploration of about $44 million in the 1973-1977
Plan period.
(iii) The Technical Division is responsible for the physical execution
of BRPM's exploration work, both in the petroleum and mineral sub-
sectors. It is also in charge of BRPM's overall plant, equipment



- 11 -
maintenance and procurement and storage of its materials and consum-
ables. The division would be responsible for the execution of the
seismic and drilling work included in the proposed project, and for
the procurement of all necessary goods.
(iv) The Mineral Valuation and Research Division manages extensive
laboratories for mineral analysis and undertakes technical and
economic feasibility studies for mineral development.
(v) The Marketing and Participations Division supervises BRPM's
petroleum and mineral interests in fully or partially owned
affiliates and in joint ventures, and assists the mineral
companies in the marketing of their products.
(vi) The Administrative and Financial Divisions maintain overall
responsibility for personnel, training, financial and accounting
matters.
Petroleum Exploration and Prospects
41.       Morocco has numerous, large geological prospects for petroleum.
A dozen structurally distinct sediment basins, with characteristics which
normally provide opportunities for hydrocarbon generation and accumulation,
extend over 400,000 sq. km. of which 55,000 sq. km. are off-shore in water
less than 200 meters deep. Oil and gas exploration has been conducted in
Morocco for fifty years and Morocco's sedimentary basins have earned the
interest of foreign oil investors. Before Independence, a series of small
oil fields were discovered in the Rharb basin (paragraph 30 above). A 1958
Petroleum Code led to the expansion of exploration, but at a somewhat uneven
pace. The Code provides incentives to foreign investors who offer BRPM or any
other public agency a participation in an exploration/development venture of
at least 34 percent. Most exploration during the past twenty years has taken
the form of joint ventures, with foreign partners liable for all exploration
expenditure, half the development costs, royalties and income taxes. After
taxes, this would result in about 80 percent of profits from production accru-
ing to the State, with the return to the investor quite small in instances of
relatively small finds. Onshore permits were issued for BRPM joint ventures
with AGIP, Petrofina, and Elf Aquitaine among others, and off-shore explora-
tion started in 1967 with award to Esso of the Tarfaya Maritime permit and
extended in the early 1970s over almost all explorable Atlantic and Mediter-
ranean off-shore areas. Between 1958 and 1972, about $80 million was spent
for 123 wells averaging 1,750 meters deep onshore and 10 wells averaging 3,300
meters off-shore.
42.       However, in the early 1970s foreign investment in oil exploration
in Morocco suffered a setback. A discovery of a large deposit of heavy oil
on the Tarfaya off-shore permit was judged to be uneconomic. Even increasing
crude oil prices failed to revive foreign investor interest, due to a number
of factors, including the existence of more attractive prospects elsewhere
(North Sea, Indonesia) compared to the need in Morocco for new rounds of
intensive research particularly in deeper horizons and difficult areas, for



- 12 -
which techniques, especially for seismic survey, were not yet adequate.
Foreign exploration investment fell below target during the 1973-77 Plan
period by about 50 percent; on the other hand, BRPM exceeded its planned minor
share by some 30 percent (rising from an annual $5 million to $28 millioti and
doubling for the period the investment level of the private sector), expanded
its seismic and drilling capacity, and discovered the Toukimt and N'Dark
fields in the Essaouira basin.
43.       This rather successful exploration activity at first encouraged BRPM
to propose an ambitious 1978-82 petroleum exploration plan, mostly onshore, to
cost $340 million, of which $250 million was to be financed by the Government
and the balance by foreign investors. The country's serious economic problems,
however, led to reduction of this plan by about two thirds. This severe
curtailment of BRPM activity coincided with sharp oil import price rises; as a
result, Morocco urgently sought to increase foreign financing to re-establish
exploration efforts at a level appropriate to petroleum prospects and to the
country's need to reduce its growing primary energy gap. These efforts have
met with only moderate success, notably 1978 and 1979 agreements with Phillips
and SNEA respectively to explore northern Morocco prospects.
44.       Prospects.  The Bank has, therefore, with the assistance of consul-
tants, appraised the opportunities offered by Morocco's geological prospects
for further discoveries of oil and gas accumulations. This appraisal concluded
that the exploration done in the 1960s and early 1970s was mostly directed to
shallower objectives easy to survey and drill, while available techniques and
crude oil prices discouraged systematic exploration of deeper and riskier
prospects of possibly large potential. As a result, exploration permits
covered only one-third of total sedimentary basin surfaces, and less than half
of the best prospective areas are under active exploration permits. Much of
the exploratory drilling in this period was at an average density of less than
one well per 2,000 sq. km., so that three out of four structures delineated
by seismic survey remained unexplored. Furthermore, on the basis of later
techniques, numerous wells are now recognized to have been drilled either in
suboptimal locations or terminated above potentially promising horizons.
Several exploration programs were terminated despite alternative "leads" for
new rounds of exploration work. Estimates of eventual recoverable reserves
are therefore probably substantially understated, and the country is well
justified in undertaking further exploration.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       In October 1978, at the request of the Government, the Bank sent an
identification mission to Morocco to determine whether it could be of assis-
tance to the Government in its efforts to accelerate the exploration and
development of the country's petroleum potential. Following this mission, it
was agreed that BRPM would prepare the project with the assistance of consul-
tants employed by the Bank. The project was appraised in March/April 1979.
Negotiations were held in Washington in January/February, 1980 with a Moroccan
delegation led by Mr. Hassan Belkoura of the Prime Minister's Office. A staff



- 13 -
Appraisal Report entitled "Morocco-Petroleum Exploration Project" (2735a-MOR)
is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in
Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
46.       The proposed loan will support Morocco's efforts to reduce its heavy
dependency on imported petroleum products. The project would help BRPM to (i)
complete the exploration of producing areas where marginally economic produc-
tion prospects are likely to exist, and (ii) assess the petroleum potential
of basins yet unexplored and develop "leads" which could attract private
foreign investors to the development of Morocco's oil and gas reserves. It
covers a three-and-a-half year slice of BRPM's on-shore exploration program.
In addition, it provides for studies to help BRPM to assess several options
regarding the development of the country's oil shale resources.
The Exploration Program
47.       A three and a half year indicative master program, agreed during
negotiations, would provide the broad guidelines for BRPM's exploration acti-
vities under the project, which would be carried out in several on-shore
basins in successive steps, balancing low risk exploration in structures
identified in the producing Jurassic prospects of the Essaouira basin with
itexploratory" seismic survey and drilling in other potentially promising
basins, including deeper horizons which have not yet been surveyed and tested.
The master program, covering the Essaouira, Doukkala, Hauts Plateaux, Boudnib
and Deep Rif basins, consists of (a) 36-party months of seismic survey total-
ling about 3,400 line kilometers, (b) 100 rig-months for drilling about 17
wells for a cumulative depth of about 50,000 meters, (c) site preparation,
access roads, water supply, equipment moving and other related operations,
and (d) continuous monitoring, planning and follow-up, commissioning of
external studies, and evaluation of prospects by BRPM and its consultants.
These exploration activities would be carried out through annual work pro-
grams, comprising studies, seismic surveys and drilling works (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, Part A II).
48.       The Initial Work Program.  The first annual work program, agreed
during negotiations, would (i) seek to prove the potential of the Essaouira
basin where hydrocarbon accumulations are likely to exist -- first in shallow
Jurassic structures, and second in deeper pre-Jurassic prospects which may
yield larger reserves of gas and rich condensate, and (ii) initiate the first
phase of exploration in other basins. For these purposes, three wells would
be drilled successively on the most attractive of a dozen Essaouira Jurassic
structures, two wells on the most promising of eight pre-Jurassic prospects,
and seismic survey would complete mapping the Essaouira and Boudnib basins.
In addition, studies would be carried out to support submission to the Bank
for approval of future drilling prospects (paragraph 51) and existing drilling
equipment belonging to BRPM would be reconditioned.
49.        Subsequent Work Programs.  Beyond the first year, the exploration
program is more difficult to define, but two main alternatives or a combina-
tion of the two could be considered, as warranted by the results of seismic



- 14 -
survey, drilling works and studies made during the first period: (i) the
exploration of Essaouira has produced results significant enough to justify
further drilling of exploratory or appraisal wells in the Essaouira basin;
(ii) no significant results have been obtained in Essaouira, in which case
subsequent BRPM efforts would be applied to other basins. Taking into account
results and new information which become available in the course of project
execution, the annual work programs for the second and subsequent years would
be established by BRPM. Drafts of these work programs, together with a report
on the results of previous exploration, would be submitted to the Bank for
comment not less than six months before the beginning of the period which
they cover, and they would be finalized not less than three months before
the beginning of that period (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A, paragraph
11(b)). The annual work programs would only include drilling work which has
been declared by the Bank eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the
loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 4a(B)), on the basis of a careful
evaluation of the potential costs of and benefits from each well. Moreover,
unless the Bank agrees otherwise, loan disbursements for the direct cost of
seismic surveys and well drilling would be reasonably equally divided amongst
the sedimentary basins covered by the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
paragraph 4(c)).
50.       The results of exploration under the project would be carefully
evaluated, and in the case that significant indications of oil or gas accumu-
lation emerge, studies would be carried out to assess the technical and
economic feasibility of the development and production of such accumulations.
These evaluations and studies would be submitted to the Government and the
Bank for review and comment (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05(a)). When the
results of exploration under the project warrant it, BRPM would exchange views
with the Government and the Bank on the appropriate arrangements to attract
investments for further exploration and development (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05(b)).
Evaluation of Oil Shale Potential
51.       Under the project, BRPM would assess Morocco's options for the
development of oil shale resources, including, in particular, the use of a
labor-intensive scheme of surface extraction and distillation (see paragraph
31 above).
Project Implementation
52.       The project will be implemented by BRPM with the support of special-
ized firms and the assistance of consultants. BRPM's Petroleum Exploration
Division will supervise execution of the exploration program. Drilling works
and seismic surveys will be carried out by BRPM's Technical Division on force
account. The Mineral Valuation and Research Division of BRPM will be respon-
sible for the evaluation of oil shale potential.
53.       Technical Assistance.  Although BRPM is capable and adequately
staffed to implement the project, specific improvements in exploration manage-
ment as well as external expertise in specialized techniques are required. To



- 15 -
help improve exploration management, BRPM would engage consultants by May 31,
1980, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and for a total of
about :L25 man-months, to help BRPM (i) improve the methods used to assess
drilling prospects and for the design of exploration programs, (ii) improve
drilling management procedures, and (iii) develop accounting procedures to
identify expenditures for petroleum exploration activities under the project
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part B(a)). In addition, BRPM would employ
consultants, as and when required, and for a total of about 200 man-months, to
help plan seismic and drilling work, evaluate the results of exploration, and
carry out technical and economic studies for the development of discoveries
under the project (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A Iltd)(iii)). To assist
in well drilling, BRPM would continue to use the services of specialized firms
for seismic surveys, well mud control, well logging and well completion
techniques. Finally, BRPM would engage consultants by June 30, 1980, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and for a total of about 100 man-
months, to help execute the studies for the development of shale oil (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C II).
54.       In addition to the statements of work carried out under an ongoing
annual work program (paragraph 49), BRPM would keep the Bank informed of
progress in project execution through monthly progress reports (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.03(b)(iii)).
55.       Subject to its timely execution of the three and one half year
master program, BRPM would be free to use its exploration equipment, including
equipment procured under the project, to carry out exploration either on its
own account or on account of foreign companies. However, in this case, BRPM
would set aside necessary funds for the rehabilitation of such equipment
arising from its use outside the project (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05).
Project Costs and Financing
56.       Tables showing project costs and financing are presented in the Loan
and Project Summary. Total project cost is estimated at $90 million excluding
taxes, of which $50 million is in foreign exchange. These estimates are based
on end-1979 prices, plus price contingencies averaging about 8 percent per
year. For consultants, the estimated man-months cost is $10,000, including
international travel and subsistence. BRPM would finance the project local
costs amounting to $40 million equivalent. To the extent necessary, the funds
required will be provided to BRPM by the Government through annual budget
allocations (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(i)). The proposed Bank loan
would finance the full foreign exchange cost of:  (i) initial rehabilitation
of drilling equipment already owned by BRPM ($3 million), (ii) replacement
of parts for drilling rigs in the course of operations ($6.5 million), (iii)
materials and consumables used by BRPM to carry out exploration work ($20.5
million), (iv) specialized seismic and well drilling services ($15 million),
and (v) technical assistance including laboratory equipment ($5 million). The
loan would be made to BRPM for a period of ten years, with a grace period of
four years. It would be refinanced, in whole or in part, at the Bank's
option, by any subsequent Bank loan for oil development or production. In the
case that the Bank, BRPM and the Moroccan Government agree by March 31, 1984
that the project has failed to identify petroleum resources whose exploitation



- 16 -
is commercially feasible, the term of the loan would be extended to 17 years
(Loan Agreement, Section 2.08). The loan would be guaranteed by the Govern-
ment. In view of BRPM's uncertain future financial position (paragraphs
59-60), the Government would ensure that BRPM has adequate funds to ensure the
due and punctual payment of the principal, and interest and other charges on
the loan (Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02(ii)).
BRPM's Financial Position
57.       At the end of 1978, BRPM's net assets of DH 909 million ($227 mil-
lion) consisted of the estimated value of petroleum exploration work on hand
(24 percent), the estimated value of mineral exploration work on hand (12 per-
cent), plant and working capital (18 percent) and shareholdings in affiliates,
mostly in the mineral production sector (46 percent). Ninety-seven percent of
assets were represented by Government equity.
58.       Returns on capital have been extremely low (2-4 percent), reflect-
ing the nature of the exploration operations, the lack of any significant
petroleum production, and low dividend income from affiliates resulting
from fluctuations in international mineral prices, low domestic coal prices,
and the need of some subsidiaries to reinvest profits. Between 1974 and 1977,
BRPM mainly covered its plant, working capital, debt service and other related
requirements through internally generated funds. Since funds from internal
sources have been small, the Government, in line with its policy to accelerate
exploration (see paragraph 44), provided the funds to cover the cost of
expanding programs in exploration and in BRPM investments in affiliates. By
1977, supported by budgeted appropriations, BRPM reached an annual level of
investment of about $31 million on petroleum exploration and about $12 million
on exploration equipment and related materials. However, under the Govern-
ment's 1978-1980 Austerity Plan, a reduction in Government funding in 1978 to
about a third of its 1977 level resulted in a drastic cutdown in the size of
BRPM's exploration plans. With the view to keeping to a minimum the amount of
idle equipment and manpower, BRPM has had to reduce working capital to fund a
proportion of the work done.
59.       Any significant improvement in BRPM's future finances depends essen-
tially on the completion of successful exploration and subsequently profitable
development.  During the period of project implementation, the proposed loan
would, in conjunction with Government funds, allow BRPM to return to pre-1978
level of petroleum exploration expenditure. If as expected the project is
successful, the results should prove at least small fields which could be
produced without long delays by BRPM on its own and should help to enlist
new foreign partners in additional exploration. BRPM is potentially in a
position to benefit considerably from any significantly successful investment
by foreign partners under its joint venture exploration agreements. However,
in the event of a discovery, BRPM would have to share equally in the cost of
field appraisal and development, and for several years before any generation
of revenue can be expected, would be in need of possibly large amounts of
funds.



- 17 -
60.       Given the risk element in exploration, it is impossible to forecast
BRPM's financial future with any degree of accuracy. Whatever the outcome of
the proposed project, and of the exploration covered by BRPM's current and
future joint-ventures, the enterprise will remain for a period of presently
undeterminable dura.ion dependent on the Government or on borrowing for the
financing of the major share of its requirements for funds. Nevertheless, a
major improvement in its financial position can be expected in the future
should some of the projected exploration activity lead to any substantially
profitable development.
Procurement
61.       BRPM will in general employ international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement to procure new equipment
and parts as well as to purchase spare parts, materials and consumables for
the replacement of inventories used by BRPM's Technical Division to carry out
seismic surveys and well drilling under the project. However, within the
total estimated cost of such equipment, parts, materials, and consumables,
small purchases of $300,000 or less may be procured on the basis of local
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, provided that their aggregate
amount does not exceed $4.0 million (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, paragraph
C.1). Ongoing BRPM contracts for specialized well and seismic services up
to $5.0 million will be financed under the project, and upon their expiry,
limited international tendering would be applied for the award of replacement
contracts.
Disbursements
62.       The Bank loan would finance:  (i) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures and 70 percent of local expenditures for equipment, parts, materials and
consumables; (ii) 80 percent of expenditures for specialized services for
seismic surveys and well drilling, and (iii) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures Eor services of consultants domiciled outside Morocco and 50 percent of
local expenditures for other consultants.
63.       Loan disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures
and specific invoices. The statements of expenditures, which relate to spare
parts, materials and consumables and to specialized services, will be supported
by the monthly progress reports, a list of quantities of goods and services
used during each month and appropriate documentation (invoices or contracts)
on the unit cost of said goods and services.
64.       Disbursements are expected to spread over a period of three-and-a-
half years at a rate of about $1.2 million per month. Early disbursement is
expected in the first semester of 1980 for the reconditioning of equipment
and for the initial period of exploration work. Retroactive financing of an
amount not exceeding $5.0 million is thus proposed for expenditures incurred
after January 1, 1980.
Project Benefits and Risks
65.       The major benefits of this project are the following:



- 18 -
(a) Greater knowledge of Morocco's oil production potential. The
additional information will provide the Government with a sound
basis on which to plan the further exploration and development of
its oil and gas resources in most onshore areas. In addition, it
will assist in the projection of likely schedules and volumes of
future production, and of the size of capital investment required
from both public and private sources to achieve these objectives.
(b) The potential attraction of additional capital participation in
future exploration and development efforts by reducing risks to
investors both through the increased information provided and the
catalytic role of the Bank's involvement in early exploration
activities; and
(c) The maintenance of the efficiency and competitive unit costs of
current exploratory work as well as the fuller use of BRPM staff
and equipment.
66.        These benefits are not quantifiable but because of the deleterious
effect on the balance of payments of increasing quantities of higher cost
petroleum, every good prospect for indigenous petroleum resources should
be explored. This project aims at assisting substantially with this effort.
67.        Because of the inherent uncertainties in estimating the probable
outcome of exploration activities, an evaluation can only be based on a
probability analysis. This was carried out to obtain estimates of the rates
of return on each of the Jurassic and pre-Jurassic prospects of Essaouira.
While the results must be treated with caution, the rates of return that
would be achieved if the programs are successful can be estimated conserva-
tively at 27 percent for the pre-Jurassic program and 18 percent for the
Jurassic program.
68.       Exploration is by nature a risky operation as the chances of a
commercial find have on average one chance in 10 to 15 of occurring, although
a better ratio could be expected in Morocco on the basis of past exploration
experience. However, even a medium-size commercial find would generate
revenues sufficient to more than offset the exploration costs.
E vironmental Impact
63.       Seismic explosives shooting, preparation of drilling sites and
disposal of drilling residues would cause some temporary disturbance to the
eivironment; however, there would be no permanent damage. All drilling rigs
will be equipped with proper safety equipment such as "blow Out" preventers to
a,oid damages from accidental spills. Provisions would be made to facilitate
BRPM securing the best available expertise and necessary equipment without
delay in the event of a "blow out", which could create an emergency situation
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 1 paragraph 4(c)).



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bureau de
Recherches et de Participations Minieres, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1980
Washington, D.C.



20                                                 ANNEX I
TAJLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  6
iDROCCO - SOCIAL InDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (AOJUSTEO A6,RACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. 534)                 .)ROCCO                          - HOST XtCENT ESTIATE) -
TOTAL            447.0/f                                                  SA3E         SAME     NEXT HICHER
AGRICULTURAL     203.377                               MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Jd    GROUP le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  190.0       300.0      670.0          1532.5       467.5      1097.7
ENERGY CONSUSWTION PER CAPITA
(RILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      148.0       180.0     273.0            838.1      262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.6        15.;       18.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3         34.6       37.4            49.0-       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         71.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. *CM.                       26.0        34.0      41.0             19.9       45.3         44.6
PER SQ. IN. AGRICULTURAL LAND      59.0        76.0      90.0             99.0      149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.0        47.5      46.0             45.6       45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          53.0        48.3      52.0             51.4       51.9         53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         4.2       2.0              2.8        2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6         2.7       2.8              3.0        2.7          2.4
URBAN                               6.4         4.3       4.1              5.2        4.3          4.5
CRUDE 5IRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.0        48.0      45.0             43.7        39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RAtE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0        17.0       13.0            13.5        11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.41g       3.4       3.2              3.2        2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          1.0       5.4               ..       13.2         34.7
OOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          116.3        98.0      67.0             90.8       99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   90.0        102.0     108.0             99.0       94.7        105.0
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)          43.0         64.0      70.5             63.6       54.3         64.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        14.0/h    15.6             16.0       17.4         23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) mORTALITY RATE      30.0        22.0       17.0            15.9        11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0         52.0      55.0             53.8       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  ..          ..        ..               ..       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        51.0      55.0             56.4       34.4         60.8
URBAN                                ..        92.0     100.0             83.4       57.9         75.7
RURAL                                ..        28.0      25.0             34.3       21.2         40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPUIATION)
TOTAL                                ..        29.0         ..            59.1       40.8         46.0
URBAN                                ..        75.0         ..            78.2       71.3         46.0
RURAL                                *-         4.0         .             26.4       27.7         22.5
POPULATION PER PHYS;CIAN          9400.0/j   12650.0   11100.0            3677.0     6799.4       2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..      2820.0    1700.0           1730.6     1522.1       1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            680.0        660.0     710.0            577.0      726.5        453.4
URBAN                                ..       460.0         ..              ,,      272.7        253.1
RURAL                                ,.      2980.0         ..              ,.     1404.4      2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        15.5      16.5             21.8       27.5         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8         5.5         .              5.S        5.4          5.3
URBAN                               4.3         4.9         ..             5.5        5.2          5.2
RURAL                               5.1         5.8         ..             6.0        5.5          5.4
AVERAGE  ltUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.2         2.4         ..              ..          ..         1.9
!JRSAN                              2.1         2.1         ..              ..          ..         1.6
RURAL                               2.3         2.6         ..              ,.          ,.         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0/i                  *-             45.1       28.1         50.0
URBAN                              85.477      68.4      55.0             67.9       45.1         71.7
RURAL                              31.07o        ..         ..              .,        9.9         17.3



21                                                 ANNEX I
TA3L' 3A                                              page  2  6f  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SREET
dCzoCCO                     REFERENCE CROUPS (AAJUSTED AERACES
MOROCCO                ~~~~- MOST RECENrr ESTNAI    I 
SAME        SA.       NEXT hIGaEX
1VST RECE!NT     CEOCRAPYtC   INCOME        LNCOFE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE Jb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROuP /t
EDCCATION
ADJ', S,E.' ROLLYENT RATIOS
PP9LAXfY:    TO-AL                 47.0         52.0       65.0             85.0       82.7        102.5
MALE                  67.0        67.0       82.0            103.7        87.3        108.6
FEMALE                27.0        36.0       47.0             66.0        75.8        97.1
SECCONDAY:   TOTAL                  5.0         13.0       17.0             27.6       21.4         33.5
MALE                   7.0         18.0      22.0             39.2        33.0         38.4
FEXALE                 2.0         7.0       12.0             20.8        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL EIROL. (' Of SECONDARY)    ..           2.0        3.0              4.3         9.8        11.5
PLPIL-TEACHR3  LATlO
PRIMARY                            43.0         34.0       40.0             32.6       34.1         35.8
SECONIDARY                            ..        20.0       21.0             23.4       23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         14.0        21.0       28.0             41.4        54.0        64.0
CoNStrtrION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAIND
POPULATION                         11.0         15.0       20.2             16.7        9.3         13.5
RADiO RECEIVERS PER THOUSA.ND
POPULATION                         46.0         60.0       92.0            147.9       76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.4         11.0       27.0             36.0       13.5         38.3
IrEVSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0         16.0       21.0             17.9       18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANFUAL ATTE(DA.NCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..        1.6              2.9         2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
IOTAL LA3CR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3254.0       3981.0    4670.0
rEMALE (PERCENI)                   10.6         15.2      19.0               S.6       29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              62.5         56.9       53.0             43.0       62.7         43.5
tXDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8         17.4      19.0             23.7        11.9         21.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (EERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.0         26.S       26.1             26.7       37.1         33.5
:4ALE                                 52.1        45.2       44.4             46.4       48.8         46.0
FEMALE                                5.9          7.5        7.9              5.1       20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPMENCY RATIO                  2.0         1.9        1.8              1.8         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRI3UTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGEEST 5 PERCENT O  HOVSEHOLDS   18.O/        20.0/4       ..             21.4       15.2         20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCE.NT OF EOCSEHOLWS  43.3/j       49.OL        *-            48.6        48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLOS    7.O/1         4.0/        ..              5.3        6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 FERCENT OF RPUSEHOLDS  1I.oj7         12.01        ..             15.0       16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROL'PS
ESTIKMAED ABSOLi-E POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URu,Lq                            107.0        157.0      319.0            201.3      241.3        270.0
RURAL                              66.0        10.0      167.0            134.2      136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEV'L (UsS PER CAPITA)
UR3AN                                ..           ..     242.0            288.6       179.7        282.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..      157.0           170.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMA1'ED POSLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY: INCOMY LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       34.0             22.9       24.8         20.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      45.0              31.2       37.5         35.3
Not available
.Not applicat,10.
NOTES
/a    The adj.s-ed group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geonetric means, excluding the extrene
values of the indlcator and the most pop.iated co4ntry in each group.  Coverage of countries Angug the
indicators depends on availability of cata and is not uniform.
/b    Unl,sa zThoer-dee noted, data for !'60 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
ar,d 1971; and for Mcst kecent P -' ace, betueen 974 and 1977.
IC    North  Af..   Middle East;   /d   Lowet midile Income ($z61-55O per capita, 1976);   /e  Incermediaie Middle
Income (f ei-11I5 p: capita, 1976);   If  Exciudes Moroccan provinces in W. Sahara;   ig  1962;   /b  AV. 19 LJ>
/I  Brck h.ildirg only;   /1  Cons.upLToo  .xpenditures of households.
Most Recett Estinate of GNP pir captta is for 1978.
August, 197a



22                                                               ANNEX I
ouMMt10o6 or SOCIAL  MIoCxiou                                                            3  of   6
5Wsg  The edJ"ted group aceros5a  for each ioictotr eat  ppoplacioe-veghtsf geometric moes, * ocil"IM  the aMtrQWQ valose of :h. Iodicator oaf t-o aoot
popuslated country is tech groop.  Coverage of toustrios  MM$9 the lodictors dopeod"  OA oavalability of 4aca oaf i. sot -iafr.  Du. to lack of d.t..
grousp aexaoges for Capital Sarplo  O5.1 Exporters and Indicator, of aCtes to efaer and extrot& disposal, boosiog. iocmsa discrit.btina ed Poverty a"t
sispie poposltjow-wsimotsd SOOsarit sess vitheet the. .etlo.sa of extreme  &I"oe.
LVID   .4- (is  wadW sq. la)                                                              Psoulatios Par hsoita.l bed - total.  Chads. aod rural - Populaoiao  itotal.
total - total surfac at  r. comprising led area oA"  104sf vaters.                         arhoa. a"m rral) divided bp :0.,: roopettive number o.  esopit.1 hsds
Ariro(.rursl - tost roctc. totuloto of agrictultural Ates sed temorarily                  acailable S.. publict oaf private aamers.l aod'oapecatlioo   )csopiza. _ct; ro-
ot psrueaeaoiy for tropis. pasrors. sarht MAd kitzoad garde"s at to                    habilitation cont-re.  Roaptcels ar. estsbli.steots parsoane.ctl  itai!*o s
lis follC..                                                                             ac least one phylcie..  Estahishmanro  7ro.oiasl  prizeipa.ly r-catl.t
care are ocr tonluded.  Rural tospiWal. ,oorver. Include haestht sod ,,Ofi-
09  pO  tAlttA (UMS   - GY  per -saeps estimates at cuvreacu market Prtzse.                 tel teeters met permanently staffed bho a phsirisa. (but by . todixl so-
calculated by oms tooverstos sochOd as IfOrId ieee AtLa."  (19,5-fl besls);              sistast. sure.. mideift c.ot.) .rhonh offer lo-petiest  toeoi:sa sd
1960. 1i70. sd L977 data.                                                               provlAe a linited Chae of medic.l fasl-ities.
Adioiostan  'oar hospital bed - totja  ogoho:r af ofal-ooioo   to Dr dilia:;..a
OXE.4T C         0YCSTO  POX C tA - "csoal roaLmpcios of coercla   margy                    froa "Sopitsao divided by1 the oumher of bae".4
C coal sod ligrica. petroleum. satuta.L gee ed hydro-. nuclear sod 95a
thermal ca.ictrLt.sty) to kilograms of teal eqolvalsat per capita.                  000009
A05:005 S10a Of household (strom.6 2aT hOUo4ehldl - total, u4rba. ne rurovl-
7OPM.AT0ON 0.9? VALZ. 0AXr CS                                                               A houseemaid tossso     ru   fSivi.dueis who  oanrs ,lving quarters
total 20 "aitl. 51-pertllltao) - As Of ALLY 1; if eAt aveilable,                           s.d their "in meal.  A boare  zr lodgor say or my  wot So4 incloded La
s.aragrv  Cofe  One-year estisates; 1ieu, 19i,0 sad I197 fete,                          the houseoesld foc  taceistlcal p.rpaoes.  Statistical dfadlutioso  of house-
Orb.. oeuletls (sereat oftotal;- Se of @0 0m  to total popola-                told very.
tim;  ld frsatfodlirlos oforb. ergee sep Affect co.Ssbt.ur                   Average number Of SorsOUS  DOC toss - total. orbs.. sad r,,tal - Average  va,
of "eCaomesa   comtrlaa.                                                                bar of persons ?er rcam iu all. sroae. sad rural otcupied .oftost.osa.
locuato !adftalstv                                                                        adeslo, S.rospecticly.  0eelliago oscid. no0.-perumemet stractures sod
!eJ. a.-9l-   arpo,latlos per oqoere bIleset   (100 bectarms)                         amoccopied parts.
of  tot   ore,                                                                      hereto to0 4oCor.itir  (serroot Of dW.1liieo; - total. orbe. oai rural -
Par 00 .      artloslafA - Computed la obove. for ericsturai leaf                        Conventional deellIogs with electricity in Lielg suerctar  As ysrtsoias
MIT,                                                                                    of total. orb.., saf rural dwelliags respectively.
fopolatlo   s   tet:  oeos)-CId.  (0-14 years) . wortiftO.41
(15-6'ysoC*  a   olod(5ya.  o   vr  as prertcsags  of elf-                          OXUTAfOS
yea? populatios.                                                                      Adiusted sorolloso  ratioo
Psoultiosrrs.o  :ao   (vorosatS - total. sf orbea. - Caomp        omsa             Primarv, school - total, so   sa mttlsd             f inale eoxol5ot Af all sat"
growth ratcs, of total oaf arhes. ..d-year populatiasa for 1.950-40.                    at the priasry level as peror.atagse  of reepetleel, prisary school-sq.
1960-70. oad 1970-7S,                                                                   Pop-'&claas; aorsally tacLufas children aged 6-lp years but adjused t.fo
Crud, birth roct ',so: thousand) -hre  livo births per thoseand of                        41ff ergot imitha of primary edacaciosL; for countries nithb universal edu-
mId-year poposltio.; Cao-eaor oritmatlz averags ee  dig in 1960 and                     cathsm esolseamt say sexced 100  "ecasat 01.5. tome pupils ore belev or
19 sdflee-year *"rarge sadla  La 1975 for mest resea  soatlete..                   eboce the off itie   ottool age.
Crud. fas    rat. (oar thoggand) - AnaueL deata. per Chousand Of elf-                   Secovlary ochool - total. oandise"le - Coesp.te  as shove.; socooa"ry educe-
year populCato; tea-per artorithei   vearagns andilo  tn 1960 and 1970                  rim  requirs Bt ieaot four ye  ars ofapproved priasry  asetruttlont pro-
IAs  fleeyear evergs" eflog LA 1915 for M&o recant estimate.                            old.  several vcsatioeal. or temachr training iascruert-*s for Pupglia
Gross reoroeuction rate - Acerage SoEhr Of femAghtero a wam  Vawil beer                   usually of 12 to 1  years of al.; oorreepoedssoncoo   are  .amarall,
La icr "oral iaproosctice period if owe a."clarieoe  present Age-                       excluded.
sepcifi it frtilIty rates; osoaly floe-year 4'vser,e sodium is, 1940.                 'frooriotal enrollment  sors- ..   of soodrC-Vocotl oval institutioso  is-
1970. aof 1975.                                                                         ""ad techftlco.. xaosottila. or 0ottor t'rotrsm. v4th oparot. ittqpfthaoscl
F saLly oljnaso     - Acceteors. sonual (thouseodeC  -  -ai Swoadr of                     or as dea"rcmts of setttdsrp  tostit utloos.s
acceptere of hirth-tootrol fevices older suap;..ce  of U&rlooal. finily              Posoil-teecher ratio - orlnorv. of serondero  - Tota  otoetst  ear-rUod  i.
plolgproW?..                                                                       prinary 80d sCotosry loa-ls dividef bIy Wo.ar.   t teAC=h rl o CA.& rorre-
TinLIly planning - users I ercomt of aarried 'sms) - Porostese of                          opoodiog Lecale.
OUT,.e  some. of child-heLarin kg as(.-   years) wh. see birth-t.antrol              Adualt literar, rate  (Prertest  - Lteorate &folrs (.bis to rsdafnsd oo a
device  to All Merried wma.  5.5 oa eac Sr"".                                           a perseacasa of total adolt popolatioa aged IS years god over.
M M   o  food orofcrtlo. "Cr saita (1970-1005 - ted.. smom     of per                   Pasesercar  (Per thO#Wsol    euas)- Passenger cor. 00.9:1. ecats rares
hait  oaaaiL producttso  of all T o"    Dmte.satcing lis" chs.t eiht pares.; eaciodes -adosisac. hearse.Ad oaf .111:5
"or =eita oaSiLp of,tlos. Soateo  of-eli.to) - CAmptmd Cco                              vehicles.
eanr57 equtslstofsa  fo  oplas  val.lah  in tovatry pe  caPita                       Rsfdio receivers 'oar ohusd,elto)- All rye.. of receLcer. for tedA1
per day.  AvsilAbLs ooApliee sorise "mastic prodoetifs. imapcts lass                  broodrasta to geseral pohiLt per thoOuaod of !sosulatioo; eacludao  Mliceaasd
powrts. sWm cheap. in stock..  Net wseppll  eascloda  Kti  feed. ""Sd.               reeivers la ooamsriss and in years  Mms registration of radi Insets ye  1.0
questitie use"  to food processing. s.f lona"  isa dUernihsciow.  i-                  effect;  data for rassar years sap sat botooaro   olote  -ast countries
qolrnt   "e" egtfe.te  by fAG heaaf os phyistlogieal seed  for nor-                   abolished liosoetot.
mal ectivity god beaith tooeldeniog gocUemetal temprature. bod                       TV receivers (por thousandf                  TVoeioi-y  :eceiyars for broadcast to soeatad
waigte. ape a sea "  "Aniesrhtioe  of popoALatls. ald albiwnO  10 per-                  pahllt per thoueaad population; socluda. uo.Liceonad IT receivers in  Oe
rmtEar:o was-te ot bose.tl  level.                                                      tiT.  sad In0 year. whe  rsgixcracis oi II setose was   of tfcto.
-..I,10  usl  of ...tcold Coremo ye: day) - Prorela costar of Per                Oevooeosrrv:ul.ttoo  (yer thouseo   poouico,ao) - Shons rho sosrege airoga-
Cepita eat supply of coos per day.   sot ooply of food is fefibed as                    is.  f   aly sensere  interest .shsapar' . l.tftoad so    periodical ?,t'i-
soboe..  RAqsIre"ts !or all countries  sestolls.hed by USDA provida for                 ratios devoted prlesrLly to reCording4 Imarel sews   ois Consifsdere o
a sllos-  alloeance of S0 grome of :otal proctein pe  day sod 20 serms                 b. `dOJ,3,  if it  9plarsr  at Idaso  four tinges ass
ofAsola-l and poise proteIn, of fthit  10 gras. should be oalinl proteis.            Cioges annual s:ttdaore per ocoit.  s:,.  ..ar - lased os ch. osumher of tickets
ThMee  oteofardo ore loser the. these ot 75 grams of total protein ehe                  sod durisg the year, Lnlucldia  sassi.stous to d:ive-In iies" soc MOolle
23  reem of Animal proceis as as slares. for the  earid. proposed by                    salts.
LAO in the Third 'fond Tood Sure."
Por -aplta ,rota.is oupply S roek animal oaf cube - P-oteba  supply of food           t-U-W
dorive  frog  --bal., sd pubs. is graes per day.                                     total.1 ... r forco (thousands) - Irrcoecally acttic  posr-oa. isriulo.A   orse
bIdsss1-4) sortellty rtse (o.r -ogos."d)   Smasal deaths per thoe-                  forts, sad oneop.iy.df hut ocltudist  huoun.1os.  tsc-ant.. sec.  ilafilt-
afd in age grousp I-S yes. to chlldrea  n, thIs age group.                              :100w to various cosri..tea :  sot ca.p&resil.
Tomis (pcreros) - Feee... ia's.: fort. as yartestag  if total LbOo  !Or-s
VALTE                                                             A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tritu2.tor. (,arsoot) - Labor foro Id frarIng. forestry, hunting and fishing
it.o eroecta:rya:bi,.4rt%h Casarsj - AW1,2eg. sesar of years of life                      as percetateo  of total labor forts.
Ciaoa   asbrt;oealyfo-ye ar ovrseas gedsais  90   90                            sfsr   sreo  - L"abr torts in mIizsz,. conscructios.                          anuatotosd
sod 1975.                                                                               electricity. saets  sad sea es peroesrage of totaL lbaor forts.
tofact sortality vst* (per thoosesd) -  moal da"csh  of infants aDod:                  Partltiretiso  Mse  cett)- -otal. val., sod fsmale - Total, sale, aft
05yaof %go per thooson   Live birsts.                                              'smaab  labor !orts as peretageis so f their rospottVolOul.tiO
KetOso or sat. uatsr (yre of scoal&Cosl) -  otal. urbs. sod tursl -                       Thee. ar. MO's ed4ootd parti.ipotioc  roses raflsctis; 0......
NSxtsr Di peopls (total. urbe. add rural) -,%to ceosaots sects. to                       cutroours of rho iOnpsstior. *o  long0 ~ti.  trend.
sfe  -ecar supply Cintlodes treated sorface wators or -ti.tro d bu.                  Et ... M.: d.opatde,r. olio - t.tie of -oPolati.n jofot 15 Dd sO said  -vo  tr
ot-otanizst.d vets: sorb as that f:oo protetted borehcle.. sprtugs.                     tbe lobs: _-tort   t *50 st-,: ;t ti-h' ......
sod osstar   asll) so P.rartosgas   of thair t.So.ctive POOulattons.                               -
is .. otbt Ores o Public fhuatoi  or scoadpoor ioratsd oat ears                     TyCoso, sT!Irr.ow
thea,Z0O saerrs fro, o housssowbe  .o..oolerved as o.150 vithIn. Cal-                7oorsoo   y t    -osses (both is CAsh  And kinf) roe.ov-a by r10h..t 
antsis 1  acres  of chtnor .us    in mrurs  sass reasonable  carcos  wuld               percsnt. rtions: 20 ports...,z poorest 210 per ...:, sad po:     -i 2  or-t
iaply  hot the nooow1t. DC or."nors of the  uasshold Os sat hoes to                     of hOuseholde.
snood adfspr.oprtionst. part of the day la flacb2.sg -he asu.1lts
-ater 55d..                                                                         pOpERit1! tAiGirT CR077
Acc.#. to aa-rt&t disousal 'teross:- of poosOtiotl) - total. urbhe. sod                !stcmasoe  obsoluto h.,art, Lnots:  leve. ("SS   oost.- s"nt sad na
* later of people (ctsoa. -r50. sad ru.r.).) served by stext.                      Aolt   ovrytse  lvlt  ht  ot   oe .asbn v itt  o  it
timopsel as perrenrages of their respecti.ve popolstiloos.  roorets                     srtio-allv  sds.oat  otos p.o. cesoil    -fooo.. touiroests _. not.
di.posal sap 1.lf   he :olciood disposal. vitA  or without                              sffordosie.
rotfoat. of o          -a arot. sac uets-ostr by yate-borme sy.tmso                 Elottasd restv   Ovrt   orso  -o1s (25$ ,r cx01t10  - srOot so- roaLl
,.r th, iso of sit prIivie  sad sMir losa-l"Lario.                                        Rlrv    oso   soclvlt  1ticm   lovt, toss -ha.0  t-o
'fsltbs,r thysirlso - PopulAtia. divde   ytaoofrsiiO                                par c.pic. p.rsosal I..0s  of the  -o-ty.
,o ;sas    sItfiod  (too    t edal school or  hs-,.or.sy 1oni                  ztasttted 9ooslcati.n Solos Ps-,!:  losses  aondosoo       tOts. z4zrs
P,ooloisnocr trot:  ,oroo -  opultlosdivided by  abs: Of                       Poresot of oultv    rhssod  urs.r            a   t   us   as.t   r:0
Pr.rtiross lats. sod (sab   raouat  aorsa.. practical nursos, and                        "r.etiv. post" wht.rhOs  Is. gr..ts.r
.8-otst4.  sure.
E.Otosi.c 05s S.-Io isst svoi
Ecos_aic kAnalsis oaf ?r-srtt-ne Zearzz-z



23
Population:       18.3 million (mid-1978)
GNP per capita:  LIS $670 (1978)                                                                                            ANNEX I
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                             Page 4 of 6
Indicator            (millionug  at                                  Annual Growth Rates t%)
current prices)                 Actual                                                Proiected
1978       1974   1975   1976    1977    1978    197911             1980    1981    1982   1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic oroduct a/  12,426          5.8    9.3   11.8        6.0    3.1        2.7            2.9      3.1    3.8      3.7
Agriculture                 2,248       10.0   -8.6   10.6    -13.4   18.2    -10.0                6.2      1.6    1.6      1.7
Industry                    3,928       4.0   13.8   10.0        11.3   -0.7       4.9             1.4      3.1    3.8      4.5
Services                    6,250       4.5   12.0   14.0         6.9    4.1       5.1             2.9      3.0    3.5      3.8
Consumption                  11,138        5.5    8.4   11.7        2.0    2.1        2.5            3.6      5.7    3.6      2.9
Gross investment              3,094       77.0   24.0   20.1       23.5   -3.6    -17.4            -14.3   -15.0    1.2       4.1
Exports of GNFS               2,167       -4.9  -16.0    6.3        7.4    3.6        6.0            3.4      6.9    5.8      8.5
Imports of GNPS               3,980      11.1   24.1   23.8        13.5  -13.9      -9.0           -10.9      1.0    2.4      4.1
Gross national savings         1.702      53.1   20.8   -5.1       19.9   -0.2        ..             .
PRICES
GDP deflator (100 a 1969)        .      149.9  148.7  150.9    161.3  172.9    188.44                *
Exchanse rate (US$ per DE)    .          .229   .247   :226       .222   .240         .256           .
Share of GDP at Mairket Prices (%)                            Average Annual Increase (7O)
(at current prices) b/                                        (at constant 1969 prices)
1960       1970   1975   1980    1985    1990    1960-70   1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                               4.0         6.7       5.1      3.9       5.4
Agriculture                 29.1       20.5   17.4   12.7    11.6    10.4           3.5       -0.5       1.7      1.8       2.5
Industry                    23.5       27.3   34.7   30.6    31.3    32.7          4.7        8.6       5.1       4.4       6.6
Services                    47.4       52.2   47.9   56.7    57.1    56.9          4.1        5.5       5.8       3.8       5.3
Consumption                   89.2        87.3   84.4   86.1    84.9    81.2         4.1         4.7      4.8       3.2       4.7
Gross investment               10.3       16.7   26.5   17.7    15.7    19.1          8.0       15.9     -1.8       3.5       8.0
Exports GNFS                  27.4        18.2   22.5   14.8    17.3    17.5          1.3        2.6       5.1       7.4      5.6
Imports GNFS                  26.9       22.2   33.3   18.5    18.0    17.8           3.5        7.2      -0.4       3.4      5.8
Gross national savings         11.0       12.3   20.4   16.6    18.3    20.5          3.5       18.4      -0.8       5.8       7.9
As % of GDP
1960      1970     1975      1978
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current revenues                                    16.5      16.6     22.9      21.8
Current expenditures                                15.6      14.9     23.3      25.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           0.9       1.7     -0.4      -3.8
Capital expenditure                                  3.8       5.9      9.1       7.7
Foreign financing                                     -       1.4       3.7       6.7
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-85        1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                       4.0            6.1           5.1            3.7           5.3
GNP per capita growth rate (7.)            1.6           3.1           1.7            0.5           2.1
Energy consumption growth rate (7)         3.8           6.7           4.3            5.1           7.0
ICOR                                      3.09           2.77          4.10           3.90          3.30
Marginal savings rate                      0.10          0.47          0.02           0.30          0.24
Import elasticity                         0.95           1.11         -0.08          0.89           0.99
a/   At market prices.                                                                                                     March 3, 1980
bi   Projected years at constant prices.
c/   Current revenues are consolidated Treasury resources (including Special Accounts).                                    EMENA CP II-B
Current expenditures include subsidies, interest on debt, and all military expenditures.
Capital expenditure includes transfers for non-governmental investment prQjects.
e/   Estimate.



24
Population:       18.3 million (mid-1978)                                                                         ANNEX I
GNP per capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                                    page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                             Annual Growth Rates (Z)
Indicator             (million US$ at                          (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                      Actual                                  Projected
1978     1974    1975    1976   1977   1978   1979e/    1980   1981   1982   1983
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports(FOB)   1,488         -5.2   -11.8    12.7    9.7    7.9    6.2            3.8    7.0    5.4    9.0
Primary                    1,131      -7.6   -23.5    10.1    2.0    7.7    2.3            4.6    3.3    3.3    3.3
Phosphates                 488      16.3   -29.9    12.0    7.5    9.6   -1.7            9.9    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                     643    -18.2   -19.5        9.1   -1.1    6.5    4.9           1.6    2.2    2.2    2.2
Manufactures                  357     13.2   -11.4    26.3   45.0    8.6   18.4             1.1   17.5   10.5   34.8
Merchandise imports(CIF)   2,987         13.4    21.4       7.6   18.1  -14.1  -13.2         -7.7    3.4    2.5    4.6
Food                         577      -1.1    35.9   -25.3   31.3    8.5   -2.1           -7.6    7.7    2.9    1.4
Petroleum                    438      10.9    12.8       3.2   14.5    6.9   -0.8         -2.8    6.7    5.5    5.2
Machinery and equipment    813        77.0    51.7    20.5   33.2  -31.4  -18.6          -20.3    -        -      11.4
Others                     1,159       3.7      3.3    18.0    4.0  -12.4   -4.8           -1.9    2.5    3.0    3.4
PRICES (100 = 1969)
Export price index               .     245.2   205.4   207.2  198.7  196.9  217.4          237.8  263.2  287.0  316.1
Import price index               .     199.8   205.0   211.7  223.4  244.7  260.6           298.5  323.5  351.0  379.5
Terms of trade index                    122.7   100.3    97.8   88.9   87.8   83.4           79.7   81.3   81.8   83.3
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)              Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                         (at constant 1969 prices)
1960     1970    1975    1980   1985   1990   1960-70 1970-75 1975-80 1980-85 1985-90
Exports                                                                                2.0    -1.2       8.1      7.6      5.2
Primary                         89.5      89.3   86.0      72.0   59.2   55.9        ..      -2.1      5.3      3.3     3.3
Manufactures                    10.5      10.7   14.0       28.0   40.8   44.1       ..       6.1    18.9    16.1        8.0
Imports                                                                                4.0      8.1    -1.5       4.1      5.9
Food                            27.3      19.1   24.8       16.2   14.4   12.2       ..      15.3    -0.3       2.4     3.5
Petroleum                        7.4       5.4   10.7      24.6   28.4   31.0        ..       9.5      4.0      5.6     6.7
Machinery and equipment          6.7      24.0   23.9       17.7   19.2   22.1       ..      12.8    -7.0       7.0     9.4
Others                          58.6      51.5   40.6      41.5   38.0   34.7        ..       2.9    -1.0       3.3     4.9
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with Capital
Industrial Countries (Z2   Developing Countries (Z)           Surplus Oil Exporters  (M)
1960     1970      1975      1960      1970      1975      1960      1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                          72.3      69.0      64.7      27.7      28.0      31.5       ..        3.0       3.8
Imports                          76.7      67.0      67.5      23.3      29.0      25.9       ..        4.0       6.6
not available.                                                                                    March 19, 1980
e/  Estimate.                                                                                          EMENA CP II-B



population!       18.3 million (mid-1978)                                                                                                    ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                                                               Page6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Acta                                                             Prjcted
Indicator                               _1970         9741975         1976     1977      1978                        1980       1981   1982   1983    1985   1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services              775       2500  2583       2285     2485       2955      3506             3873       4440   5003   5782    7640  12869
Of which,  Merchandise f.o.b.           488       1694   1531       1246     1283      1488      1738              1972       2336   2685   3223   4507   7807
Imports of goods and services             946       2282   3137      3687      4364      4353      4510             4654        5099   5651   6325    7948  13847
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.            625       1679   2268      2519      2820      2629      3188              3371       3778   4203   4758   6141  11482
Net transfers                              27          19      8        70       52         49        50               50         54      57     61      70      90
Current account balance                  -144         237   -546    -1331    -1827      -1349      -954             -731        -606   -591   -484   -235   -888
Private capital inflow (net,               21          36     -         38       53         45      -25                 -         50     56      63      79    158
MLT loans (net)                             90        166    526       650     1170        683       519              621        699    668    535    296    994
Other capital                              56        -316      3       627 a/   597 a/   613 a.   360 a/              134 a/    -69    -42       -2    -1        +1
Change in reserves                        -23        -123     17        16        6          8       100              -24        -74    -91   -112   -139   -265
luternational reserves                    161         504    437      549       609        772
Of which:  Gold                          21         113     85       82       104        154
Reserves as months imports                2.0         2.7    1.8      1.8       1.7       2.1
GrosA disbursements                     175         290    646      762      1313       985      1001             1249       1383   1416   1480   1438   2432
Official grants                        20          31     29       29        38        30
Concessional loans                                 58    133      104       176       177       171              206        213    223    270    339    294
Non-concessional loans                            201   484       629      1099       778       830             t043       1170   1193   1210   1099   2138
Official export credits                           5      3       28        59       396        58              337        389    462    461    410    750
IBRD                                 16         63    110        59        69        72        83              139        196    226    247      276    366
Other multilateral                    -           1      3        -         1        19        23               42         49      64     63      61      80
Private                              25        132    368       542       970       291       665              525        536    441    439      351    942
External Debt
Debt outstanding ard disbursed          703        1197   1690     2288      3478      4636      5193             5794       6463   7049   7578   8177  10529
Undisbursed debt                        239         636    781      932      1638       1722     1699             1552       1541   1644   1752   1908   2036
Debt service                                58        135   137        140      234        505      746              983       1089   1201   1435    1667   2044
Total service payments                    23         42    47         57      129        232      264              356        405    453    489       526    606
Interest23                                         4      47       5        12        23        263540                              45     48      56      66
Payments as t    exports                 7.5        5.4   5.3       6.1       9.4       17.1     21.3             25.4       24.5   24.0   24.8    21.8   15.9
Average interest rate on new loans (%) 4-4            5.2   6.8        7.2       7.3       7.7      7.7              7.1         7.2    7.0    7.1      7.0    7.3
Average maturity of new loans (years)  18.5          17.8  16.5      11.5      10.6       11.4     14.0             17.0       11.6   12.3   12.1    12.3   10.2
As % of Debt Outstanding at End of Most Recent Year (1978)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                     20.6
Maturities due within 10 years                                    53.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                     4.2
a/ Including special grants for defense.
.. Not available.                                                                                                                             March 5, 1980
e/  Estimate.                                                                                                                                 EMaENA CPII-h



ANNEX II
26                         Page I of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                              US$Million
Credit                                                    Amount  (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower              Purpose          Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen   Loans    Fully disbursed                        244.9
Four        Credits  Fully disbursed                                    36.0
643        1969     Kingdom of Morroco  Irrigation         46.0                    0.3
850        1972     ONEP                  Water Supply    48.0                     1.1
955        1974     Kingdom of Morocco  Highway            29.0                    1.6
1017        1974     Maroc-Phosphore       Industry         50.0                    1.2
1018        1974     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture        32.0                   12.5
555        1975     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture                    14.0       13.7
1123        1975     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture         18.5                   5.9
1201        1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture        30.0                   14.5
1202        1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Tourism            21.0                   14.8
1220-T      1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Education          25.0                   25.0
1279       1976      CIH                   DFC (Tourism)   25.0                     0.8
1299       1976      Kingdom of Morocco  Power              49.0                    8.5
1361        1977     CNCA                  Agriculture      35.0                    2.3
1383        1977     CIOR                  Industry         45.0                    2.4
1416        1977     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture        41.0                   40.3
1428        1977     BNDE                  DFC              45.0                   29.5
5-7       1977      Kingdom of Morocco  Engineering         1.5                    1.5
1528       1978      Kingdom of Morocco  Urban Develop.  18.0                      18.0
1602        1978     Kingdom of Morocco  Fes Karia Tisse 65.0                      65.0
1625        1978     Maroc-Phosphore       Industry         50.0                   21.1
1681        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  Education         113.0                  113.0
1687        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  DFC (SSI)          25.0                   25.0
1695 1/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco  Power              42.0                   42.0
1704        1979     CNCA                  Agriculture      70.0                   70.0
1724        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  Water Supply    49.0                      49.0
1757 1/    1980      Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture        58.0                   58.0
Total                                                1275.9        50.0      637.0
of which has been repaid                            143.2         0.5
Total now outstanding                                1132.7        49.5
Amount Sold                           20.7
of which has been repaid              10.7              9.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       1123.4         49.5
Total undisbursed                                     623.3         13.7      637.0
NOTE
/ Signed, but not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of January 31, 1980)
US$Million
Loan    Equity   Total
1963/1978            BNDE                  Devel. Bank            -        2.7     2.7
1966                 CIL                   Canning Factory       0.9       0.5     1.4
1976                 Marrakech Cement    Cement Factory           -        1.4     1.4
1977                 Ramara Cement         Cement Factory        4.8       2.4     7.2
1979                 Agadir                Cement Factory       12.5       2.4    14.9
1980                 SOMIFER               Copper Mining        12.9       2.3    15.2
Total Gross Commitments                                         31.1      11.7    42.9
Less cancellation, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    0.9       1.2      2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                         30.2      10.5    40.8
Total undisbursed                                         25.4       5.1    30.5



27                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and by severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss Ier Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped.  Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided bv Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed in early 1980;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implemented in October 1977, the higher revenues did not
compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has estab-
lished an interministerial commission to review the situation.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - and the maintenance equipment and
highway improvement programs are complete.
Ln. No. 1017 Maroc-Phosphore I Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project was physically completed in October 1976 and the
phosphoric acid plant is now in commercial operation. Disbursements would
be completed before June 30, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



28                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1018 Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. The project area roads construction program was com-
pleted in 1977, and the farm roads program in 1978.  The Government recently
requested that funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes
be transferred to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and II
projects, in view of the high costs of such works, and the advancement of the
construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding.
A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution control
is now proceeding satisfactorily. Since the start of the project, the
Ministry of Public Health initiated a nationwide survey and control program
of bilharzia; a separate survey on the Rharb plain is no longer required.
Ln. No. 1123 Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 49 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed. Works related to the social components of the project which
suffered from substantial delay are now underway. Budgetary constraints
facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the operating budget and held back
the assignment of additional personnel, causing some delay in project imple-
mentation. While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped
so far, developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put
under irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project has faced substantial delays in project implementation
due mainly to the difficulty of land consolidation in a rainfed area, attempted
for the first time in Morocco under the project. The cadastral surveys are
now underway, and commitments of funds under the project have been initiated.
Project management and the coordination of project activities between the
project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of Agriculture have
improved but continue to require close monitoring. A revised land reform and
redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is currently under
preparation. A nationwide study on collective lands has been postponed.



29                         ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,600 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Founty land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by mid-1980. The imple-
mentation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
closely monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness:  November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.



30                        ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MW power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 kV transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station.  Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361 Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project covered most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term lending
through August 1979 and included related technical assistance. Disbursements
of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small farmers, coopera-
tives and farmers' associations. About 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by mid-1980, as
scheduled.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
started operation in January 1979, and 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness:  December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in two-
year delay in completing the project.



ANNEX II
31                       Page 6 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. While disbursements are behind schedule, commit-
ments as of January 31, 1980 amounted to US$36.5 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan
for the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project.
It would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for
urban sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases
for the development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed
by about 15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, which
have now been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an
experimental sites and services housing schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. Construction is proceeding satisfactorily, although
there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure. Implementation has been
running about 6 months behind schedule. However, since operating funds have
become available, the Project Authority is accelerating project implementation
and civil works, training and cooperative organization are proceeding satis-
factorily.



ANNEX II
32   .                     Page 7 of 8 page-
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27,1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping
of 11 technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 17,
1979; Closing Date: December 31,1983.
The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government program
to assist small and labor intensive industries through policies, technical,
managerial and financial assistance.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22, 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: April 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This project which is the first stage of a 15-year village elec-
trification program would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings in 220
villages located in 17 provinces.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of May 23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's
farm families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term
lending program and farm investment program through August 1982.



33                         ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir and (iii) the establishment
of a revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families,
and (iv) studies on accounting and management systems.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
Approved September 11, 1979; Effectiveness Limit: May 19,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is the first phase of Morocco's Five-Year Plan for
development of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan
is to be on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental
short-term production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two
small producer packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting
about 8,000 farm families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of
the loan would help finance infrastructure in the project area, and technical
assistance.



34                         ANNEX III
Page 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to
prepare the Project:                    10 months (October 1978 - August 1979)
(b) Agency responsible for
Project Preparation:                    Bureau de Recherches et de Participa-
tions Minieres (BRPM)
(c)  Project identification:                 October 1978
(d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:              March-April 1979, August 1979
(e)  Date of Completion of Negotiations:  March 1980
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          June 1, 1980
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing up to $5 million is proposed for expenditures
incurred after January 1, 1980 for the reconditioning of equipment and for the
initial period of exploration work (para. 64).
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Within the framework of a three and a half-year indicative master program
(para. 47), BRPM would carry out its exploration activities through
annual work programs, comprising studies, seismic surveys and drilling
works (para. 47).
(b) BRPM would draft, within the framework of the master program, the annual
work programs for the second and subsequent years, and would submit them
to the Bank for comment, together with a report on the results of pre-
vious exploration, not less than six months before the beginning of the
period which they cover. These drafts would be finalized not less than
three months before the beginning of that period (para. 49).
(c) The annual work programs would only include drilling work which has
been declared by the Bank eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the loan on the basis of a careful evaluation of the potential costs of
and benefits from each well (para. 49).



ANNEX III
35                          Page 2
(d) Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, loan disbursements for the direct cost
of seismic surveys and well drilling would be reasonably equally divided
amongst the sedimentary basins covered by the project (para. 49).
(e) Evaluations of the results of exploration and studies of the technical
and economic feasibility of the development and production of oil and gas
resources identified by the project would be submitted to the Government
and the Bank for comments (para. 50).
(f) When the results of the exploration activities carried out in a given
basin warrant it, BRPM will exchange views with the Bank and the Govern-
ment on proposed arrangements appropriate to attract investments for
further petroleum exploration and development in such basin (para. 50).
(g) BRPM would recruit (i) exploration, drilling and accounting consultants
by May 31, 1980, (ii) consultants, as and when needed, to help plan
seismic and drilling work, evaluate the results of exploration and carry
out technical and economic studies for the development of discoveries
under the project and (iii) consultants to assist BRPM in assessing
Morocco's options for the development of oil shale resources by June 30,
1980 (para. 53).
(h) BRPM would prepare monthly progress reports (para. 54).
(i) When BRPM will use its exploration equipment procured under the project
to execute works other than those required under the project, BRPM would
set aside necessary funds for the rehabilitation of such equipment
arising from its use outside the project (para. 55).
(j)  The Government would provide BRPM with adequate funds to cover the local
cost of the project, and to ensure the due and punctual payment of the
principal, and interest and other charges on the loan (para. 56).



