                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank


                                                         Report No: ICR1565


             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-39110 and IDA-H3690)

                                          ON A


                                         CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.0 MILLION
                         (US$ 25.30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      AND GRANT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.4 MILLION
                           (US$ 27 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO

                                         NEPAL


                                          FOR A


           SECOND RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT




                                     February 25, 2013




Urban & Water Unit
Sustainable Development Department
South Asia Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                            (Exchange Rate Effective November 2012)
                                Currency Unit = Nepal Rupee (NRs)
                                      US$ 1.00 = NRs 89.00
                                            Fiscal Year
                                         July 16 to July 15

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


 ADB      Asian Development Bank                        MIS     Management Information System
                                                                Ministry of Physical Planning and
 CAS      Country Assistance Strategy                  MPPW
                                                                Works
  CD      Community Development                         NFE     Non Formal Education
 DDC      District Development Committee                NGO     Non-government Organization
          Department for International
 DFID                                                   NPC     National Planning Commission
          Development
          Department of Local Infrastructure
DOLIDAR                                                 NPV     Net Present Value
          Development and Agricultural Roads
  DSS     Decision Support Systems                      NRs     Nepal Rupees
  EA      Environmental Assessment                      OAG     Office of the Auditor General
          Environmental Management Action
 EMAP                                                 PAD       Project Appraisal Document
          Plan
 ERR      Economic Rate of Return                       PAF     Poverty Alleviation Fund
          Finnish International Development
FINNIDA                                                  PDO    Project Development Objectives
          Agency
          Financial Management Information                      Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
 FMIS                                                 RWSSP
          System                                                Project

 FMR      Financial Management Reports                   SA     Service Agency

 Fund     Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
                                                         SO     Support Organization
 Board    Fund Development Board
 GBP      Great British Pound                          SRLF     Sanitation Revolving Loan Fund
  ICR     Implementation Completion Report               TA     Technical Assistance
                                                       TEC or   Technical Evaluation Committee or
  IDA     International Development Association
                                                        TAC     Technical Appraisal Committee

  IPR     Implementation Progress Report                TTL     Task Team Leader

  ISR     Implementation Status Report                  VDC     Village Development Committees
 KPIs     Key Performance Indicators                    VHP     Village Health Promoter
 Lpcd     Liters Per Capita per Day                    VMW      Village Maintenance Worker


                                                 ii
LSGA   Local Self Governance Act                         Water Supply and Sanitation Users
                                                WSUC
                                                         Committee
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation system         WSUG     Water Supply and Sanitation Users
                                                         Group
MDG    Millennium Development Goals             WTSS      Women’s Technical Support Services

MOF    Ministry of Finance




               Vice President                          Isabel M. Guerrero
          Acting Country Director                        Salman Zaheer
              Sector Manager                               Ming Zhang
           Project Team Leader                         William D. Kingdom
            ICR Team Leader                               Elisa Muzzini




                                          iii
                                                 NEPAL
                             Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project

                                                               CONTENTS




                                                                                                                               Page


                                                                Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information
  B. Key Dates
  C. Ratings Summary
  D. Sector and Theme Codes
  E. Bank Staff
  F. Results Framework Analysis
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring
  I. Disbursement Graph

                                                            Main Document

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 14
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 16
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing....................................................................................... 18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................. 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 33
Annex 5 Beneficiary Survey Results…………………………………………………………35
Annex 6 Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results…………………………………………36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR ..................................................................................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .................................... 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 48
Annex 10. Additional Indicators Illustrating the Project’s Achievements ................................ 49


Map IBRD 33455




                                                                       iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Second Rural Water
Country:                Nepal                   Project Name:             Supply & Sanitation
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P071285                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39110,IDA-H3690
ICR Date:               02/25/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 NEPAL
Original Total
                        XDR 17.00M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 31.08M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 31.08M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development Board
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Department for International Development (DFID)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/17/2001     Effectiveness:             01/17/2005         01/17/2005
                                                                                   05/06/2008
Appraisal:            11/18/2003     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                   12/16/2010
Approval:             06/01/2004     Mid-term Review:           05/01/2007         05/10/2007
                                     Closing:                   08/31/2009         08/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower                         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:                    Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                  v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                               Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                           Yes                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                 5
Sanitation                                                             5                    25
Water supply                                                           90                   75
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Gender                                                                 17
Other human development                                                17
Participation and civic engagement                                     17
Pollution management and environmental health                          16
Rural services and infrastructure                                      33

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Salman Zaheer                         Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:            Ming Zhang                            Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:       William D. Kingdom                    Tashi Tenzing
ICR Team Leader:           Elisa Muzzini
ICR Primary Author:        Elisa Muzzini
                           A. D. C. Godavitarne

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary objectives of the project are to:

 (i) improve rural water supply and sanitation sector institutional performance and
mainstream the "Fund Board" (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development

                                                      vi
Board) approach in the Government's system, and

  (ii) support communities to form inclusive local water supply and sanitation user groups
that can plan, implement, and operate drinking water and sanitation infrastructure that
delivers sustainable health, hygiene and productivity benefits to rural households.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                Number of people in rural areas provided with improved access to water supply
Indicator 1 :
                (within a 15-minute round-trip walk from their residence)
Value
quantitative or               -                   813,000          1,045,464         1,140,892
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009       08/31/2012        08/31/2012
Comments
                The number of beneficiaries exceeded the original target at appraisal by 40%, and
(incl. %
                the formally revised target by 9%.
achievement)
                Number of schemes in operation and functioning satisfactorily with community
Indicator 2 :
                Operations and Maintenance (O&M)
Value
quantitative or               -                     1,355            1,463             1,465
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009       08/31/2012        08/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        By project closure, the formally revised target was exceeded.
achievement)
                Percentage of population in project area with access to hygienic sanitation
Indicator 3 :
                facilities (within 30 meters of their residence)
Value
quantitative or            10.89%                   50%                                 83%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
Comments        The Sanitation Revolving Loan Fund (SRLF) remains within the community,
(incl. %        which is expected to increase its sanitation coverage even after the end of the
achievement) project, and eventually reach full coverage.
                Percentage decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal disease morbidity among
Indicator 4 :
                young children in the project area
Value
quantitative or               -                     80%                                82.5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009                         08/31/2012

                                                  vii
                  A very significant decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal disease among young
Comments
                  children was achieved in the project areas from 78% at the beginning of the
(incl. %
                  project to 14% at the end of the project (equivalent to a percentage decrease of
achievement)
                  82.5).
                  National Planning Commission (NPC) and Ministry of Physical Planning and
Indicator 5 :
                  Works (MPPW) effectively monitor and evaluate the sector
Value             No sector Monitoring &                                          Sector M&E
                                               Effective M&E
quantitative or   Evaluation (M&E)                                                established and
                                               system in place
Qualitative)      system                                                          operational
Date achieved              04/20/2004              07/16/2009                          08/31/2012
                  An M&E unit for the sector was established in 2006 within the MPPW as part of a
Comments
                  sector monitoring initiative led by the GoN. The M&E, the Management
(incl. %
                  Information System (MIS), and Decision Support Systems (DSS), was made
achievement)
                  operational in December 2011.
Indicator 6 :     Establish a common set of guidelines for all projects in the sector
                                                                                  Rural Water Supply
                                                                                  and Sanitation
                                                                                  (RWSS) Sector
Value                                          Establishment of
                                                                                  Policy and Strategy
quantitative or   Guidelines not established common set of
                                                                                  of 2004 prepared
Qualitative)                                   guidelines
                                                                                  and common set of
                                                                                  guidelines
                                                                                  established
Date achieved              04/20/2004              12/31/2010                          08/31/2012
                  The RWSS Sector Policy and Strategy of 2004 is effective and a common set of
Comments
                  guidelines has been established for the sector, drawing largely on the experience
(incl. %
                  gained from the implementation of First Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
achievement)
                  Project (RWSSP I).
                  Sector wide minimum cost recovery norm of 20% and 10% for poor and
Indicator 7 :
                  disadvantaged groups
                                                                                  Sector wide
                                                                                  minimum cost
                                                                                  recovery norms
                                               Implementation of
Value             Sector wide cost recovery                                       established in the
                                               sector wide set of
quantitative or   norms not yet                                                   Rural Water Supply
                                               minimum cost
Qualitative)      implemented                                                     and Sanitation
                                               recovery
                                                                                  Sector Policy and
                                                                                  Strategy of 2004
                                                                                  and implemented.
Date achieved              04/20/2004              12/31/2010                          08/31/2012
Comments          Cost recovery norms have been defined and mainstreamed in the sector. The
(incl. %          lower minimum contribution of 10% for poor and disadvantaged groups
achievement)      facilitated participation of marginalized communities.
                  Government links budget allocation among competing approaches to evaluate
Indicator 8 :
                  outcomes.
                                               Establishment of
Value
                  Budget allocation not        performance based                  Budget releases
quantitative or
                  based on outcomes            budget allocation                  based on outputs
Qualitative)
                                               system

                                                    viii
Date achieved       04/20/2004             12/31/2010                          08/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Government releases budget in the sector based on output indicators.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Number of Water Supply and Sanitation User Committees (WSUCs) with number
Indicator 1 :
                of women members equal or greater than the stipulated minimum of three
                                                                               All WSUCs have at
Value                                      All WSUCs have                      least 3 women
(quantitative                 -            at least 3 women                    members
or Qualitative)                            members                             (585 have more
                                                                               than 3)
Date achieved           04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
Comments        All Water Supply and Sanitation User Groups (WSUGs) have the minimum
(incl. %        stipulated (three) women members in the WSUCs. 585 WSUCs have more than
achievement) three women members, and 11% of WSUCs have female chairpersons.
Indicator 2 : Percentage of individuals practicing hand washing with soap at critical junctures
Value
(quantitative             32.58%                   100%                               92.96%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                The percentage of individuals practicing hand washing increased significantly
Comments
                from 32 to 93% in the project area. The achievement is an indicator of the
(incl. %
                effectiveness of social mobilization, awareness building and hygiene interventions
achievement)
                under the project.
                Fit between caste and ethnic profile of households in project area actually served
Indicator 3 : by the system, as measured by percentage of beneficiaries who are from
                marginalized groups
                                           No quantitative
Value                                      target set (given
(quantitative   Not specified              demand-driven                       53.86%
or Qualitative)                            nature of the
                                           project)
Date achieved           04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                About 54% of beneficiaries are from marginalized groups (dalits, indigenous
Comments
                people and minorities). The Fund Board provided incentives to Support
(incl. %
                Organizations (SO) to seek out and include remote communities away from the
achievement)
                road heads.




                                                   ix
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
       Date ISR
No.                             DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    09/07/2004           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    05/11/2005           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.30
  3    01/04/2006           Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     1.30
                                                   Moderately
  4    09/12/2006           Satisfactory                                          5.48
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                   Moderately
  5    05/10/2007   Moderately Satisfactory                                      11.39
                                                 Unsatisfactory
  6    11/23/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            17.14
  7    02/28/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            17.14
  8    10/23/2008       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory            17.14
  9    05/27/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            23.53
 10    11/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            23.53
 11    05/28/2010   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            35.01
 12    04/23/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            42.62
 13    11/19/2011   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            42.62
 14    05/19/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            42.81
 15    07/29/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   42.81


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Increase IDA fund support to
                                                     finance increased project costs.
                                                     Additional Funding of SDR 16.4
 05/06/2008       N       MS     MS          17.14
                                                     million (US$ 27 million).
                                                     Closing date extended to
                                                     December 31, 2010.
                                                     Closing date extended to August
                                                     30, 2011; reallocated financing
                                                     to reflect increase in unit costs;
 12/16/2010       N       MS     MS          35.01   extended the date of covenant
                                                     for operationalizing the sector
                                                     M&E system to August 30,
                                                     2011.




                                               x
I. Disbursement Profile




                          xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The First Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (RWSSP I) was approved in September
1996 with an IDA credit of US$ 18.2 million and closed in December 2003. The rating at
project closure was Satisfactory. The Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project
(RWSSP II) was the follow on project. It adopted the same tested “demand-driven? modality,
and built on it to incorporate further improvements.
The country political conditions at project appraisal presented many challenges to the
project’s success. The country was in the midst of the Maoist insurgency that gripped the
country for ten years (1996-2006), plunged Nepal into a prolonged period of political
instability and retarded its economic development. In addition to the human toll from the
conflict, the country experienced internal and external displacement of people, and the
destruction of economic infrastructure. In February 2005, the Parliament was suspended and
martial law was enforced. The Government was weak, and its control was limited to urban
areas at best; materials were in short supply and costly; and repeated strikes paralyzed the
country, affecting the movement of people and goods. Although a peace agreement was
reached in 2006, the country remained, and still is, in a state of prolonged political instability,
with frequent nationwide strikes, and no elected local governments.
At the time of project appraisal, a number of donors, Non-governmental Organizations
(NGOs) and government agencies were providing RWSS in Nepal. RWSS was being
delivered either by donors directly or through the District Development Committees (DDC),
the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage (DWSS), the Department of Local
Infrastructure Development and Agricultural Roads (DOLIDAR) and the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Fund Development Board (hereafter referred to as the Fund Board).
The MPPW, now the Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD), the line ministry responsible
for sector oversight and coordination, did not have in place a mechanism to coordinate RWSS
delivered through the various agencies, nor a comprehensive framework for monitoring the
status of RWSS, leading to inaccurate data on sector coverage and duplication of investments.
As a result, donors and sector agencies often did not apply the same approach, criteria and
service levels, and overlapped in service provision in the same area.
The Government of Nepal (GoN)’s objectives for the sector as stipulated in the 10th Five
Year Plan (2002-2007) were to: (i) increase sustainable access to basic water supply and
sanitation facilities; (ii) increase rural water supply coverage from 72 to 85%; (iii) provide
suitable sanitation in rural areas; and (iv) decrease infant mortality by reducing waterborne
and water-related epidemics. GoN pledged to allocate 5 to 7% of the annual development
budget to achieve the sector targets.
In 2004, GoN developed a national RWSS Sector Policy and Strategy, which endorsed the
provision of RWSS based on “effective demand? and service standards corresponding to
affordability and willingness to pay. It established common minimum guidelines aiming to
harmonize approaches of donors, developed an implementation model for the sector, and set
a sector wide minimum cost sharing norm of 20% capital contribution from the community
(which could be reduced to 10% for the poor and disadvantaged groups). The policy also
limited GoN’s role to: prioritizing and financing sector investments; formulating policies and
legislation; and regulating sector developments, including sector M&E. It endorsed the Fund
Board’s “demand-driven? approach as the model for service delivery; and recommended the
establishment of the Fund Board as a regular sector institution through an act of Parliament.
                                                1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project development objectives were to: (i) improve RWSS sector institutional
performance and mainstream the Fund Board approach in the Government's system (first
development objective), and (ii) support communities to form inclusive local water supply
and sanitation user groups that can plan, implement, and operate drinking water and
sanitation infrastructure that delivers sustainable health, hygiene and productivity benefits to
rural households (second development objective).
The key performance indicators (KPIs) included: (i) number of people in rural areas provided
with improved access to water supply (within a 15-minute round-trip walk from their
residence); (ii) the number of schemes in operation and functioning satisfactorily with
community O&M; (iii) percentage of population in project area with access to hygienic
sanitation facilities (within 30 meters of their residence); (iv) percentage decrease in the
prevalence of disease morbidity among young children in the project area; (v) number of
WSUCs with number of women members equal or greater than the stipulated minimum of
three; (vi) percentage of individuals practicing hand washing with soap at critical junctures;
(vii) fit between caste and ethnic profile of households in project area, as measured by
percentage of beneficiaries who are from marginalized groups..
The following four KPIs related to the first development objective were added in 2008 in
conjunction with the approval of Additional Funding: (i) NPC and MPPW effectively
monitor and evaluate the sector; (ii) establish a common set of guidelines for all projects in
the sector; (iii) sector wide minimum cost recovery norm of 20% and 10% for poor and
disadvantaged groups; and (iv) Government links budget allocation among competing
approaches to evaluate outcomes.

1.3 Main Beneficiaries
The primary target beneficiaries of improved RWSS were rural households, including the
poor, lower castes, minorities, and women. The original number of target beneficiaries was
813,000 people, this target number was increased to 1.045,464 following the approval of the
Additional Financing Grant in May 2008. At project closure, the number of beneficiaries had
increased to 1,140,892. Other target beneficiaries include the Fund Board, the MPPW, the
WSUCs, the Women’s Technical Support Services (WTSS) as well as the SOs and the
Service Agencies (SAs) trained as part of the project.

1.4 Original Components
Component 1: Strengthening and Operation of the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Fund Development Board (Fund Board) (US$ 8.1 million). This component provided
financing for the Fund Board’s incremental operating costs, on a declining percentage of
operating expenditure (starting at 60% and declining 15% every year to 0% in five years);
training and capacity building of SOs, SAs and communities; audits; M&E and studies;
development phase costs, communication (including media (radio), publicity, awareness and
information); and technical assistance (TA) costs.
Component 2: Selection and Construction of Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Schemes (US$ 32.5 million). This component financed water supply and
environmental sanitation schemes in about 1,355 communities with a population of 813,000,
based on agreed criteria to select communities for project interventions, and community
development activities that promoted: (i) active participation of communities at all stages of


                                               2
decision-making including planning, construction and management of schemes; and (ii) local
ownership, effective use and sustainability of the facilities.
The RWSS schemes were to include: (i) construction, rehabilitation, reconstruction of gravity
flow systems, shallow and deep tubewells, dug wells and rainwater harvesting; (ii) catchment
protection in intake areas through reforestation, alternative energy sources for fuel wood,
erosion control and other site specific programs; (iii) construction of hygienic sanitation
facilities, including construction of appropriate household and institutional latrine facilities
and drains for disposal of wastewater.
Schemes were prepared and implemented in batches (or groups) of villages. RWSSP I
implemented four batches (Batch I to IV); RWSSP II was to complete Batch IV, and
implement Batch V to VIII.

The IDA credit was to finance 1,209 schemes. DFID agreed to finance 146 water supply
schemes, using funds available from a bridging grant (2001-2005) of GBP 2.72 million,
equivalent to US$ 5 million.
Component 3: Institutional Development Studies. (US$ 0.9 million): This component was
to provide support for sector assessment and M&E, and undertake a range of studies on
appropriate and cost effective technology options; water quality control; health impacts;
inclusion of poor families and minorities; gender aspects of RWSS services; impacts of
community development; health hygiene and sanitation practices; and school management
and student participation in health, hygiene and sanitation matters.

1.7 Other significant changes
Significant changes in the project included:
 DFID’s withdrawal of support for the project following a review of the Nepal portfolio,
   resulting in diversion of the US$ 5.0 million equivalent originally agreed;
 Approval of an IDA Grant of SDR 16.4 million (US$ 27 million equivalent) in 2008 (and
   extension of closing date from August 31, 2009 to December 30, 2010), to meet the
   shortage of funds arising from increased costs of materials, implementation delays due to
   the conflict and larger scheme sizes; increase in the project scope with the additional
   financing, with associated increase in the number of target schemes (from 1,355 to 1,463)
   and beneficiaries (from 813,000 to 1,045,464);
 Extension in the Credit and Grant closing date from December 2010 to August 2011, and
   subsequent extension of the Credit and Grant closing date from August 31, 2011 to
   August 31, 2012;
 Cancellation in January 2011 of US$ 4.0 million of the IDA Grant that was unlikely to be
   utilized by the revised closing date of August 31, 2012 due to savings.
The following additional changes were introduced during implementation:
 Communities’ decisions to opt for higher service levels, with the willingness to bear the
   extra cost beyond the basic service provided by the GoN, in line with the provision of the
   RWSS National Sector Policy;
 Inclusion of lift (deep tubewell) schemes in high arsenic areas, resulting in increased costs
   for overhead tanks and pumping, with incremental costs borne by the communities;
 Introduction of a pilot social accountability program (the Jagran Program);
 Introduction of a pilot insurance program to cover hazard risks in completed schemes;
 Pilot testing of a gender-focus livelihood program to secure loan financing for WTSS to
   pursue economic activities (the Jeevika Program)

                                               3
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project formulation was consistent with the Poverty Reduction Strategy in the 10th Five
Year Plan and the 2004 RWSS Strategy and Plan for provision of RWSS based on “effective
demand? and service standards corresponding to affordability and willingness to pay. The
project was also consistent with the 2003 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) through support
for social sector development, social inclusion and good governance.
The project incorporated the successful features and experience of RWSSP I. It maintained
without dilution the steady course of demand-based RWSS delivery, community-managed
implementation, community ownership and responsibility for O&M. The project design
continued to promote the use of objective eligibility criteria to select schemes, recruit SOs,
SAs and staff in a transparent manner. The project also maintained the composition of the
Board members of the Fund Board, with a majority of non-Government members, and the
high qualification requirements for Fund Board’s staff.
The project drew on the lessons learned from RWSSP I and from experiences from similar
projects globally, and in the region, specifically, India and Sri Lanka to further enhance the
model developed under RWSSP I. The project further improved on inclusiveness. The need
to include and provide RWSS services to lower caste and indigenous people (especially dalits
and janajatis) was recognized, and an Indigenous People Development Plan was developed
during project preparation. The Fund Board included measures to incentivize SOs to seek out
and include remote communities away from the road heads, responding to findings (in the
ICR for RWSSP I) that only communities near roads were included in RWSSP I.1
The gender focus was strengthened, by offering targeted Non-Formal Education (NFE) to
women2 as well as to enhance women’s engagement in economic activities with the time
saved. The project improved on health and hygiene interventions by integrating hand washing,
and other health and hygiene initiatives with water supply and sanitation investments. A post-
implementation phase was introduced to monitor and enhance the long-term sustainability of
the schemes, relying on the SOs to provide further support to the WSUCs for monitoring and
reporting every six months to the Fund Board, Village Development Committees (VDCs) and
DDCs for the first two post-implementation years, and later, on WSUCs to self-monitor and
report directly to the Fund Board.
The Fund Board was established in 1996 under a GoN Formation Order of the Development
Board Act, which provided the necessary permanent legal status to the organization by
ensuring regular budget allocations and operational autonomy.
Project activities to improve institutional performance and mainstreaming the Fund Board
approach focused on (a) enhancing the sector ministry’s capacity to carry out sector-wide
M&E, (b) strengthening the Fund Board as a sector institution and increasing the capacity of
the SOs, SAs and WSUGs/WSUCs and (c) enhancing the Fund Board’ approach and
mainstreaming its main provisions in the sector.

1
  The Fund Board revised the Board Rules No. 40 to define more clearly local materials as “materials available
within one day’s walk?, with the project covering the cost of transporting non-local materials from the nearest
road head to the community if distance was more than one day. Furthermore, the Fund Board increased the SOs’
overhead costs if they chose schemes beyond 10 km from the road head. In order to enhance inclusiveness, SOs
that included staff from local communities were given some additional marks in the selection process.
2
  NFE for women was optional, and financed by the project upon community request, and meeting specified
criteria. It included reading, writing, basic arithmetic and health and hygiene education.
                                                      4
Key design features of the Fund Board model were to support communities in planning,
implementing, and operating drinking RWSS infrastructure, based on demand and service
standards corresponding to affordability and willingness to pay. Key features include:
      The full operational autonomy of the Fund Board for scheme selection (based on
       objective criteria), scheme processing and funds disbursements without prior approvals
       from GoN and complete transparency of all decisions and financial information.
      A demand driven community-based approach assuring (a) community decisions on
       service levels; (b) mobilization of cash and in-kind contributions for capital costs; (c)
       increased community contributions for desired (beyond basic) levels of services; (d)
       community’s procurement of materials and implementation, including the community’s
       obligation to meet any cost overruns, and (e) community financing of all O&M costs. The
       basic water supply service, supported by the Fund Board comprised: water availability
       within a 15-minute roundtrip walk from the users’ residence to fetch water, at design
       consumption of 45 liters per capita per day (lpcd)3, with users paying the incremental cost
       of any higher level of service decided by the community
      A SRLF grant allocation to each WSUC to be used by the community to provide loans
       and grants to poor households to construct latrines, based on selection criteria and
       conditions decided by the community. Communities could use the SRLF funds to cover
       the cost of non-local materials (water seal, pan, pipes, cement, etc.) and the skilled labor
       required to construct improved domestic latrines. The SRLF allocation to a community
       was determined based on local needs, and aimed to cover the costs of 25% of the
       households without sanitary latrines. Each community receiving the SRLF allocation was
       expected to achieve full coverage of sanitary latrines, by leveraging the SRLF allocation
       and mobilizing its own funds.
      Health and hygiene initiatives and community capacity building integrated with RWSS
       in the project design, such as the promotion of hand washing through NFE, and training
       to WSUCs in accounting, record keeping, monitoring, work plan development, etc.
      Compliance, quality and process control conducted during implementation and post-
       implementation, including: compliance and impact assessment of Community
       Development (CD) activities; scheme appraisal by SAs; technical review by the
       Technical Appraisal Committee of the Fund Board; periodic milestone monitoring by
       SAs; technical audit upon completion; six monthly evaluations of functional status of
       30% of completed schemes over a two-year period; short-term sustainability assessment
       (3 to 5 years after completion) and long-term sustainability assessment (5 to 7 years after
       completion).
      Women empowerment initiatives mainstreamed in the project design through the
       promotion of participation and representation of women in decision-making positions in
       the WSUCs; the establishment of WTSSs and the formation of savings and credit
       societies; and the promotion of NFE for women.
Key Implementation features included:
      The use of the SOs to mobilize communities and support them in the identification of the
       schemes, and to provide important information to the communities for decision-making
       on the available technical options, service levels, capital and recurrent cost estimates, and
       the technical design of the schemes.
      The use of the technical services of the SAs to validate field data and review scheme
       designs, to carry out appraisals of the schemes, scrutinize and improve the technical
       design and implementation plan of the schemes, facilitate scheme approval by the Fund

3
    This is the desired per capita demand; however, where this is not possible, 25 lpcd is also allowed.
                                                           5
    Board’s Technical Appraisal Committee, prior to approval by the Board, and conduct
    periodic field monitoring of the schemes for quality checks and output verifications.
   A pre-development phase requirements including: formal request from the community to
    participate in the project, needs assessment and feasibility appraisal carried out by the SO,
    commitment for community contributions.
   A mandatory development phase (about 8 to 10 months long) requirements including: (i)
    formation and registration of the WSUG under the Water Resources Act in the District
    with the WSUC (Committee) representing the community; (ii) community’s identification
    of priorities and service levels; (iii) preparation of designs and cost estimates, conforming
    to unit cost guidelines established by the Fund Board; (iv) technical, financial and
    economic appraisal of schemes by the SAs; (v) collection of upfront community
    contribution and O&M funds, with funds deposited in the community’s bank account; (vi)
    establishment of the SRLF account; (vii) opening of the joint bank account (of the WSUC
    and the SO) to receive funds for implementation; and (viii) compliance audit of CD
    activities.
   Implementation phase actions of: (i) procurement and transportation of non-local
    material; (ii) construction of civil works by the community under the management of the
    WSUC, supported by a SO4. For works requiring high skilled workers, the WSUC hires
    such skills if they are not available in the community. Mother and Child Tap Stand
    Groups established during implementation with responsibility for overseeing tap stands
    and helping collect charges.
   Post-implementation phase (introduced under RWSSP II) including periodic follow-up
    by the SO for a period of two years on the sustainability aspects of the scheme, TA to the
    community to resolve problems and submit the post-implementation status report on a
    six-monthly basis to the VDC, DDC and the Fund Board. Additional post-implementation
    activities included immediate impact study done upon completion of the scheme,
    technical audit of the scheme, short- and long-term sustainability assessments.
Risk Assessment. The project’s risks were appropriately assessed as “moderate? at appraisal.
The critical risk identified at appraisal was the ability of the Fund Board, SOs and SAs to
efficiently operate in the country because of interference from the insurgents. Overall, this
risk did not fully materialize, except for some delays in the transportation of non-local
material during strikes and due to security concerns; and there were no interruptions of
construction works. A second perceived risk related to the future of the Fund Board as a
permanent organization, which was mitigated through the commitment by GoN at appraisal
to establish the Fund Board through a separate Act of Parliament. The measure was
unrealistic because Government had no way to predict decisions by an elected Parliament.
The ICR review concludes that the risk to the sustainability of the Fund Board was not the
lack of a legal statute, since the Fund Board was already established as a permanent entity
under the Development Board Act. The risk to the sustainability of the Fund Board was the
uncertainty of budget allocations if there was no continuation of external donor support.
2.2 Implementation
Main events and changes during implementation include:
Delays in Implementation Progress. Until early 2009, implementation was impacted by the
long approval time of the schemes (up to 14 months) by the Fund Board, due largely to
GoN’s delays in appointing executive members to the Fund Board. This issue was resolved
when the Fund Board’s Executive Director was granted authority to approve schemes even in

4
 SOs assisted communities to carry out construction, with the community contributing local materials and labor.
No contractors were hired (except for skilled labor if not available in the community).
                                                      6
the absence of the quorum in the Board. Some delays caused by the duplication of activities
by the SOs and SAs were resolved by clarifying the responsibilities of the parties: the
responsibility for scheme selection and preparation was assigned to the SOs, with the SAs
providing technical support to improve the analysis and design of the schemes. Some delays
in transportation of non-local materials also occurred because of the insurgency.
Approval of Additional Financing. The additional funding became necessary to complete the
original schemes agreed at appraisal, because of the following reasons: (a) cost overruns due
to increase in the cost of construction materials (pipes, cement and fittings) and
implementation delays due to the conflict and (b) an increase in the average scheme size,
from 600 people per scheme to an average of about 778 people per scheme at project closure.
Extension of Implementation Period. The Credit and Grant closing dates were extended to
December 31, 2010 when the Additional Financing was approved. However, this estimate
proved optimistic; and the Credit and Grant closing date was further extended from
December 31, 2010 to August 31, 2011 (as part of the restructuring carried out in December
2010). The Credit and Grant closing date were again extended by one year to August 31,
2012 to give the Fund Board additional time to complete the works.
Introduction of Lift (Deep Tubewell) Schemes. Overhead tanks to lift water for distribution
were requested by a number of communities in the arsenic-prone areas where water was
abstracted from deeper aquifers, of approximately 85 meters. This enhanced level of service
enabled a continuous 24-hour supply, compensation for head losses in the distribution
network, and facilitated individual connections through yard taps. The incremental costs of
overhead tanks and pumping costs were borne by the communities.
Introduction of Innovative Initiatives. The following innovative initiatives, which were
piloted during project implementation, helped to support achievement of the PDO:
   Risk Insurance Program. An innovative initiative was the promotion of insurance to
    cover schemes against risks associated with flooding, landslides and earthquakes. This
    program is at the stage of piloting. The Fund Board’s initiative has resulted in one
    insurance company agreeing to cover these risks. About 36 WSUCs have obtained
    insurance cover to date.
   Gender-focused Livelihood Program (Jeevika Karyakram). The Jeevika Program
    provided support to WTSSs to approach private banks and apply for soft loans. The
    objective is to promote economic activities by women beneficiaries and thus enhance the
    gender-specific economic benefits from time savings.
   Social Accountability Program (Jagran Karyakram). The Jagran Program is another pilot
    innovation of the project to promote social accountability over and above the checks and
    controls required during scheme implementation. A local group is formed to carry out
    third party monitoring of the scheme implementation in order to assure the governance
    and accountability aspects of the scheme, and provide feedback. The Jagran group
    comprises socially responsible individuals not associated with the WSUC, who provide
    feedback to the WSUC, SOs and SAs on issues of finances and procurement at the
    community level.
   Support and contributions by DDCs and VDCs. Representatives from the DDCs and
    VDCs played an active role in the formation and registration of WSUGs under the Water
    Resource Act, the opening of WSUG’s bank account and the mitigation of community
    disputes. In five schemes, the role of DDCs and VDCs was significantly enhanced
    through capital costs contributions, averaging about NRs 875,000, with positive results.



                                             7
      Furthermore, a provision was made to ensure that the Fund Board would approve only
      those schemes included in the periodic, annual or long-term plan of the DDCs.5
Grant Cancellation. In January 2011, the World Bank cancelled an amount of US$ 4 million
of the grant because of the projected savings due to efficient procurement and currency
exchange savings.
Status of Compliance with Key Covenants. All covenants of the project were fully complied
with. Compliance with one of the covenant – the establishment of the M&E system for
MPPW – was achieved, but with delays.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The section describes the Fund Board’s M&E system for the project designed at appraisal
(not the sector M&E and Decision Support System that was established at the sector Ministry
under the project).
Design. The project design had a robust M&E framework. The KPIs, as stated in the PAD
against each PDO, were comprehensive. Additional four indicators were introduced to
monitor ‘sector institutional performance and mainstreaming the Fund Board approach’
(objective 2) when the Additional Financing was processed in 2008. The design of the M&E
system went beyond the requirement of the results framework. M&E was embedded in all
phases of the scheme cycle. The Fund Board monitored the KPIs as well as a comprehensive
set of performance and output indicators at the scheme level (e.g., time saved, health and
hygiene improvements, increase of incomes of beneficiaries and water consumption). In
addition to the project M&E requirements, the Fund Board developed and maintained a
comprehensive MIS that included project M&E requirements, and a wide range of other
relevant information.
Implementation. The performance monitoring system was highly effective. The Fund Board
designed a number of data reporting formats to collect all the information relating to the
above indicators. Monitoring was carried out through data collection by SOs. For example,
Healthy Home Surveys were carried out three times from project development to
implementation to obtain baseline and subsequent data on occurrence of diarrheal morbidity
among children. Socio-economic data were collected at the scheme level, and the Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) was computed for each scheme as part of appraisal. The Fund Board
also undertook several M&E studies including: (i) technical, operational and environmental
audits, (ii) short-term sustainability studies, (iii) long-term sustainability studies, (iv) impact
assessment studies; and (v) CD impact assessment studies. All data collected as part of the
project were entered in the Fund Board’s MIS.
Utilization. The MIS and M&E studies provided a strong basis for monitoring and evaluating
the progress made under the project and also taking corrective actions if and when required.
The Implementation Progress Reports (IPRs) of the Fund Board reported on each of the
indicators, although not all the indicators were reproduced in the Bank’s Implementation
Status and Results (ISR) reports.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Social Safeguards. Compliance with social safeguards was satisfactory. Water schemes were
built either on public lands or voluntarily donated private land. Thus, issue of involuntary
resettlement was duly avoided in the project period. To avoid issues relating to land


5
    See First Amendment of the Formation Order 2004 of the Fund Board. Article 4A.
                                                      8
acquisition from private donors, a standard format for land donation agreement in prescribed
formats was introduced from Batch VII.
Environmental Safeguards. The Fund Board had in place a satisfactory environmental
safeguards management system. It exercised due diligence by reviewing environment and
water quality reports from SOs and SAs, and implemented site specific mitigation measures
when required. It conducted regular reviews of environmental safeguards with a focus on
water quality management to identify good practice and emerging issues. Compliance with
environmental safeguards was satisfactory.
Procurement. All project procurement by the Fund Board was carried out according to the
Bank’s procurement guidelines. The procurement plans were developed in a timely manner.
Community-level management of procurement of materials (as opposed to the government
managing the procurement process) was a unique feature of the project, and effective. The
main challenge was how to ensure value for money while designing, developing,
implementing and maintaining a large number of RWSS schemes. The key arrangements for
this effective procurement management included: development of a simple and clear
implementation manual including procurement procedures; mobilization of SOs and SAs in
preparing cost estimates and providing technical support; verification of the cost estimates,
and checking of the quality of material by consultants. This approach based on community-
level procurement management is an example worthy of replication in similar future projects.
Financial Management. The Fund Board maintained a satisfactory financial management
performance throughout the project period. The Fund Board entered all financial data in a
timely manner in the Financial Management Information System (FMIS), and used the
system effectively. Financial management reports of high professional quality were submitted
to the Bank according to requirements. The internal financial audit was carried out by an
independent private auditor hired by the Fund Board, and the final statutory audit was done
by the Office of the Auditor Generals (OAG) within GoN. Delay in finalizing the statutory
audit by the OAG did occur on some occasions, due to late preparation of financial
statements. The following factors contributed to satisfactory financial management: (i)
continuity of staff, (ii) use of SOs to provide training on financial management to
communities, (iii) timely actions taken on issues raised by both internal and external auditors
and auditors appointed for audits of community accounts, and (iv) development of a robust
and efficient FMIS, which enabled the generation of timely and reliable financial information.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Future role of the Fund Board. The Government has formally requested the Bank to continue
supporting the Fund Board to help the Government achieve its sector targets. Meanwhile, the
Fund Board is continuing implementation of the schemes under Batch IX that were in the
development phase at project closure with interim budget provided by the Government. The
ICR review’s recommendation is that the Bank continues to support this highly successful
model of truly community-driven, demand-based RWSS provision, and showcase the project
as one of the most successful examples of RWSS provision globally.
Sustainability of completed schemes. The Fund Board plans to continue the post-
implementation phase of completed schemes (with SO support for the first two years after
completion), and the short- and long-term sustainability audits of completed schemes to
enhance the sustainability of the assets created,
RWSS Sector Review. A comprehensive and independent review of the sector was initiated by
the GoN in 2012 with support from the Bank, to: (i) analyze performance of alternative


                                              9
service delivery options; (ii) utilize the sector M&E, MIS and DSS for improved sector
coordination; and (iii) make recommendations for the development of the RWSS sector.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation          Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The first project development objective of improving RWSS sector institutional performance
and mainstreaming the Fund Board approach is highly relevant, and fully consistent with the
objectives of the RWSS Sector Policy and Strategy of 2004 to develop a uniform demand-
driven model for the sector, based on the Fund Board’s approach, to achieve the GoN’s
objectives for the RWSS sector. The second project development objective of supporting
communities to form inclusive local water supply and sanitation user groups that can plan,
implement, and operate drinking water and sanitation infrastructure that delivers sustainable
health, hygiene and productivity benefits to rural households was highly relevant at appraisal,
and remained relevant and consistent with the RWSS sector policy, and the CAS through
completion. Project design focused on expanding the coverage of RWSS, which was, and
continues to be, necessary to reduce infant mortality and morbidity, improve health and
hygiene outcomes, develop social capital, empower women, reduce poverty and sustain
economic development. The implementation methodology was highly appropriate, as it was
based on inclusive, community-driven development, with community ownership and O&M
responsibility. The Fund board was already established under a legal statute at the time of
project appraisal; and a separate Act of Parliament to assure its permanency was not
necessary, and beyond the control of the Government to achieve.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives         Rating: Satisfactory
The first development objective of improving sector performance and mainstreaming the
Fund Board approach was fully achieved. The main achievements are as follows:
      The sector wide M&E system, including the MIS and DSS, were made operational in
       December 2011, and agencies active in the sector have stated sharing and validate the
       data in the system. A data sharing agreement (Memorandum of Understanding) was
       made between the DWSS, the DOLIDAR and the Fund Board. A performance based
       budget allocation system was established for the sector with budget releases linked to
       outputs.
      Particular attention was paid to strengthen the Fund Board as sector institution. The
       Fund Board was autonomous in its operations (except in matters relating to staff
       remuneration) over the course of project implementation. The operational autonomy
       of the Board was strengthened through a revision of the Formation Order approved by
       the Cabinet. The Fund Board was not additionally ratified through the Act of
       Parliament despite efforts by the Government. The ICR review concludes that a
       project requirement linked to parliamentary action was beyond the control of the
       Government, and additional legal underpinnings were not necessary since the Fund
       Board was already established under a legal statute. Rather, the requirement to assure
       the permanent status of the Fund Board was financial, i.e. uninterrupted budget
       allocations, which was met over the course of implementation.
      The project contributed to enhancing the capacity of SOs. The project successfully
       reinforced the use of objective eligibility criteria for selection of SOs that was
       introduced under RWSSP I, and contributed to strengthen the capacity of the SOs. By
       engaging a large number of SOs to implement the RWSS schemes, a new industry of
       ‘paid’ SOs was created. The capacity of SOs developed under the project will
       continue to be a valuable resource for community -driven development in Nepal.

                                              10
         The project enhanced the Fund Board’s approach by addressing implementation
          issues that affected the first project, with a focus on establishing objective criteria for
          the selection of schemes and SOs, and improving on inclusiveness. The project also
          successfully piloted cutting-edge innovations that allowed the RWSS program to
          grow and expand, including the Risk Insurance Program, the Gender-focused
          Livelihood Program and the Social Accountability Program, and leveraging capital
          contributions from DDCs and VDCs for water schemes on a pilot basis.
         The objective of mainstreaming the Fund Board6 model was achieved. The project
          design influenced the GoN in the development of the RWSS Sector Policy and
          Strategy of 2004, which establishes a common set of guidelines for all projects in the
          sector, and incorporates the main provisions of the Fund Board’s approach. The Fund
          Board’s model has been scaled up as part of the project and has been substantially
          adopted by the DWSS, DDCs and donors. Most RWSS providers now provide the
          basic service approach defined in the sector policy, including the formation of
          WSUCs, and have adopted Fund Board’s guidelines. A few RWSS providers,
          especially from the public sector, have adopted full community empowerment and
          implementation.
The second development objective was fully achieved, and exceeded the targets for water
supply coverage, number of beneficiaries and reduction in the prevalence of diarrhea. Using
the Fund Board model, a population of 1.14 million was given access to improved rural water
supply, against the original project target of 813,000, and the formally revised target of 1
million. Female beneficiaries account for 50% of total project beneficiaries.
A total of 137,536 latrines were constructed benefiting 136,487 households in the project area,
including 64,407 sanitary latrines funded using the SRLF. The multiplier effect of awareness-
raising resulted in the construction of an additional 72,080 latrines by the communities using
their own resources. The project target of 50% coverage (equivalent to the construction of
74,374 latrines) was exceeded. About 83% of households in the project area have sanitary
latrines against a national average of 36%. The percentage decrease in the prevalence of
diarrheal disease among young children in the project area (from 78 to 14%) exceeded the
target, and the percentage of individuals practicing hand washing increased from 32% to 93%
in the project area, albeit the 100% target was not fully achieved. Additional indicators
illustrating the achievements of the project are presented in Annex 10.
3.3 Efficiency                                                      Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The expected economic benefits of the project fully materialized, exceeding the estimates at
appraisal, and the project was efficient in achieving its outcomes and outputs. The main
economic benefit of improved rural water supply is the time saved from fetching water. On
average, households gained 2.1 hours per day as a result of not having to fetch water, and can
now use the saved time for income-generating activities, self-improvement activities and
social activities. In gravity schemes – the most common technology – households gained 3.8
hours per day. Another important benefit of the project is the increase in per capita water
consumption in the project area, from a baseline of 13 lpcd to 43 lpcd. The health impact of
increase in water consumption and health and hygiene initiatives could not be quantified, but
the substantial decrease in the prevalence of diarrheal disease (from 78 to 14%) over the
project period points to significant benefits.
The ERR for the completed water supply schemes is estimated at 31.1%, above the ERR
estimated at appraisal (24.6%). Technology wise ERR ranged from 16.0 % (lift schemes) to

6
    The Fund Board was formed in 1996 to implement RWSSP I with IDA Credit support.
                                                    11
32.2% (gravity schemes). ERRs for all technologies are higher than the economic cost of
capital (12%) and the NPVs of all technologies are positive. The estimated ERR for the
overall project (22.1%, including Fund Board’s operating costs) is higher than the ERR
estimated at appraisal (16.7%). Water supply schemes are found to be self-sustainable under
normal situations. Most of the WSUCs introduced a monthly tariff of NRs 30 per household,
on average, to fund regular operations. The collected amount slightly exceeds the O&M
needs of water supply schemes. Households' access to improved sanitation facilities increased
from 11 to 74% in the participating communities well above the target of 50%. The leverage
(measured by the number of sanitary latrines constructed with communities’ own funds per
number of sanitary latrines constructed with SRLF) is above 1 (with an average of 1.1). See
Annex 3.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating                 Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. The PDOs were fully achieved, and
several outcome and output indicators exceeded the formally revised targets, although an
extension in the implementation period was required. The economic benefits were realized in
a cost-effective manner, and women were significantly empowered. Physical and financial
sustainability was achieved because communities assumed ownership and O&M
responsibility, and the demand-driven approach was fully internalized by the communities.
Furthermore, the project succeeded in testing a number of innovative features, beyond the
target performance indicators set at appraisal, with the potential of being replicated and
scaled up in RWSS projects not only in Nepal but also in other countries. The project’s
achievements are the more creditable given the violent country-wide insurgency, the
prolonged political instability and the frequent nation-wide strikes that affected Nepal during
implementation, and led to material shortages and restricted movement of people and goods.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Social impact. The project paid particular attention to ensure remote communities were
included in the project: 29% of the schemes have a distance of more than 10 km from road
heads. The project significantly contributed to building social capital in the participating
communities – communities were empowered to take collective decisions, and were able to
plan, construct, manage and operate water supply systems. The social benefits of improved
water supply and sanitation were far reaching – anecdotal evidence from field visits show that
girls were able to attend school on time and more regularly because of time saved in fetching
water, leading to better results and reduced drop-outs at school; women’s health (e.g.
backache) improved as the need to carry water long distance was reduced drastically; and
children had better nutrition as women started growing their own vegetables. The
representation and participation of previously excluded groups in project activities remained
consistently high during the project period. For example, in the WSUGs, the representation of
marginalized groups like the dalits, janajatis and other deprived ethnic groups stood at 60%.
At project completion, 53.9% of beneficiaries were from marginalized groups.
Gender impact. The project has had a remarkable gender impact. Women and girls have
primary responsibility for fetching water; and 90% of the time saved as a result of improved
water supply was women’s time. This saved time was effectively used instead in child care,
income generation activities, and other household responsibilities. More than 45,000 women
graduated from NFE classes; around 1,700 women were working as Village Health
Promoters (VHPs). The project had a number of important features that helped facilitate and
incentivize women’s engagement in income-generating activities with the time saved – e.g.,
the credit and savings facilities developed as part of the WTSS (women’s groups), and the
                                              12
pilot Jeevika Program for providing commercial credit facilities to women. Approximately
65% of total female members in WTSS groups mobilized more than NRs 24 million through
income generating activities.7 The project introduced a mandatory requirement to enhance
women’s participation in decision making positions. As a result, 11% of WSUCs had women
as chairpersons and 98.2% had women as treasurers. 585 WSUCs had more than the
minimum (three) stipulated number of women.
Poverty impact. The project contributed to the reduction of rural poverty in the project area
by delivering improved RWSS that saved women’s time and allowed them to pursue
economic activities. The percentage increase in the income of women who engaged in
economic activities with the time saved stood at 24% in the project area. To ensure the long-
term sustainability of these gains, several initiatives were adopted by the Fund Board such as
registering the established WSUCs as cooperatives, and the piloting of the Jeevika Program.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project made important direct and indirect contributions to strengthening the capacity of
sector institutions and service providers at both the central and local level. The Fund Board
has maintained operational autonomy. MPPW, now MoUD, has an established M&E that can
serve as the basis to strengthen coordination and harmonize interventions by sector agencies.
The project also succeeded in strengthening capacity of the SOs and empowering
communities. Participating communities were made responsible for determining levels of
services, contributed to capital cost, and took ownership of the assets and their O&M. The
capacity built through the project at the local level is expected to have an important longer-
term impact on the ability of the communities to come together for collective action and take
charge of improving their livelihoods.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
The project supported community aspirations for higher levels of service to improve living
conditions. The community’s decision-making process enabled beneficiaries to opt for higher
levels of service than the basic levels defined by GoN. A number of communities adopted
individual yard taps, contributing the incremental cost over the basic service. Some
households went a step further and installed internal plumbing (i.e., wash basins, showers and
toilets) with broader implications for enhanced water use and wastewater and sullage
generation.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                      Rating: Low
The risk that the assets created under the project will not be sustainable is low, due to the
empowerment of communities to own and manage the schemes and the demonstrated
willingness of communities to assume full O&M responsibility. Involvement of communities
in planning, implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and O&M of water supply facilities
together with technical training provided to Village Maintenance Workers (VMWs) created a
solid foundation for sustainable O&M of the water supply schemes. In addition, the
establishment of an O&M fund in the WUSC’s account with an allocation of 3% of hardware
costs for gravity schemes and 4% for groundwater schemes has contributed to the sustainable
operation of the schemes.

7
 Implementation Progress Report (1st Trimester, FY 2011/12), Second Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
Project, November 2011; “Supplementary Implementation Progress Report, Second Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project, Updated up to January 25 2012.
                                                   13
The risk that the Fund Board model of service delivery based on demand and community
decision-making may not continue is low given GoN’s well-established RWSS policy; and
the adoption of the main provision of the Fund Board’s approach by most agencies and
donors. The risk that the Fund Board cannot continue its operation because of lack of
external financial support is low, since the Government has committed to fund operation of
the Fund Board with interim budget after project closure and has formally requested the Bank
to continue its support to the Fund Board. The lack of a separate Act of Parliament is not a
serious impediment to the continuation of the Fund Board’s activities, given that the Fund
Board is already established as a permanent entity.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance                                               Rating: Satisfactory
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry Rating:          Satisfactory
Project design reflected lessons learned from similar projects in Nepal, and globally, and
showed exceptional attention to detail. The principle of service delivery based on demand
was a significant element of project design. The mandatory development phase and the
community planning and implementation were key elements of project design that
contributed to the success of the project. Coupled with community decision-making in
planning, implementation, and O&M, the ‘demand-driven’ approach made the project design
highly appropriate, unique and best practice, worthy of replication. The projects’ benefits
were enhanced by the inclusion of health and hygiene initiatives, NFE and training for
women. Key performance indicators for the first development objective of improving sector
institutional performance and mainstreaming the Fund Board approach could have been more
clearly formulated to measure the significant project achievements. The rating is in line with
the QAG’s quality at entry assessment.
(b) Quality of Supervision                                         Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision was enhanced by the presence of a highly committed and experienced Task
Team Leader (TTL) based in the Nepal Country Office. Safeguards and fiduciary staff were
also based in the Nepal Country Office. The Bank’s supervision focused on steadfastly
maintaining all aspects of the Fund Board’s implementation model without any dilution.
Bank supervision was highly proactive and was able to address the issues that delayed
scheme approvals in the first years of implementation. The Task Team actively promoted and
supported institutional improvements in the Fund Board operations, and the piloting of
innovations in consultation with the Fund Board (see section 2.2). The Task Team regularly
monitored achievements of project targets as well as additional performance indicators
reported by the Fund Board in its IPRs.
The Task Team set high standards for supervision, which was intense and thorough. The Task
Team rated the achievement of the PDO and IP Moderately Satisfactory throughout the
project life, due to initial delays in achieving milestone targets, and delays by GoN in
appointing Fund Board members, thus keeping pressure on the Fund Board to strictly adhere
to the service delivery model and perform at its best. The ICR review conclusion is that the
Task Team should have upgraded the PDO and IP rating after the initial delays were
addressed, in recognition of the overall achievements of the project.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance            Rating: Satisfactory
Bank performance, especially the high standard of supervision, ensured that outcomes and
outputs were fully achieved and indeed exceeded the targets, although these achievements
were not reflected in the ratings for the PDO and IP. Overall Bank performance is rated

                                             14
Satisfactory based on satisfactory quality at entry, satisfactory supervision and satisfactory
achievement of outcomes.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance                                         Rating: Satisfactory
GoN has been fully supportive of the RWSS service delivery model executed by the Fund
Board. It was committed to establish the Fund Board by an Act of Parliament and tabled the
Act twice to the Parliament. It continued to support the autonomous operation of the Fund
Board over the course of project implementation and provided annual budget appropriations
in a timely manner. Despite the delay, the MPPW developed and established the sector M&E,
which will facilitate improved donor coordination.
GoN enhanced coordination of the multiple donors and agencies involved in the sector,
increase the frequency of sector Stakeholder Group Meetings, and coordinated the Joint
Sector Review. Donor interventions now follow the broad principles of GoN’s RWSS Sector
Policy and Strategy of 2004. The challenge for MPPW (now MoUD) is to make further
progress in coordinating sector investments by all donors active in the sector, and continuing
to mainstream the Fund Board delivery model, which has been proved to be successful and
sustainable. Overall, GoN’s performance is rated Satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance                Rating: Satisfactory
The Fund Board developed a successful implementation modality for RWSS delivery with a
detailed and well-thought-out scheme cycle. It exercised its functions professionally,
effectively and efficiently. As the project executing agency, it ensured that WSUCs strictly
followed the implementation modality for improved RWSS in a satisfactory manner. The
Fund Board has a relatively lean organization, with a cadre of 48 experienced technical,
financial and management staff. All staff, recruited through open competition, was required
to meet the minimum technical qualifications, and was employed on three-year term contracts
(with re-appointment based on performance evaluation as per guidelines provided in the Fund
Board’s manual), and the tenure of the Executive Director was limited to one-and-a-half
terms (4+2 years). Most staff positions were filled promptly, although some replacements
took longer than expected with delays on the part of the government in appointing Board
members to the Fund Board in the first years of project implementation. Overall, staff
turnover due to changes in government has not affected the Fund Board.
Initial implementation was impacted by delays in the mobilization of SAs for milestone
monitoring visits, delays in the procurement of SOs and the long approval time of the
schemes. These delays were however fully addressed by the Fund Board over the course of
implementation and project outcomes were achieved and exceeded. The Fund Board
introduced several noteworthy cutting-edge innovative pilot initiatives (see section 2.2). It
developed an impressive M&E systems and a very comprehensive MIS on every conceivable
aspect of the project, which helped to effectively monitor and evaluate project performance
(see section 2.3).
The Fund Board’s operation has been proved to be cost effective in comparison to costs of
other RWSS providers. The Fund Board covered 18% of the total population provided with
access to improved rural water supply since 1996, with 5% of total sector expenditures. The
performance of the Fund Board is rated Satisfactory.




                                             15
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory based on: achievement of the PDOs
and the satisfactory results on the ground; the satisfactory performance of the Fund Board,
and the commitment and support of GoN to the project.
6. Lessons Learned
The evolution of RWSSP II provides a fine example of a model that may be suitable for other
communities in Nepal and rural areas in developing countries. Main lessons learned include:
1. The strength of the community as organizing principle for sustainable development in
   Nepal. The project shows the strength of community participation and community-based
   implementation for sustainable development in Nepal. The demand-driven community-
   based model implemented by the Fund Board was able to withstand the implementation
   challenges of operating in a conflict environment. Even at the height of the insurgency,
   when most of the donor programs stopped or had to be significantly reduced,
   implementation under the project continued without interruption, with only minor delays
   related to the transportation of non-local materials (due to the strikes).
2. Benefits of long-term engagement in the RWSS sector. The importance of a long-term
   engagement in the RWSS sector to achieve results is an important lesson emerging from
   the project. The RWSSP II, as a follow-on project, was able not only to address the
   implementation issues which affected the first project, but also to experiment and pilot
   innovations. These innovations allowed the RWSS program to grow and evolve, and
   could not have been introduced under the first project, which focused on developing the
   foundations of the Fund Board’s delivery model.
3. The benefits of implementing a community-centered RWSS approach through an apex
   institution such as the Fund Board. The successful project results shows that
   implementing a community-centered approach to RWSS delivery through an apex
   institution, such as the Fund Board, that has somewhat more operational autonomy than
   line departments, allowed the project to test new approaches which can subsequently be
   mainstreamed if proven successful. An example is the testing and roll-out across the
   project of community-based procurement. Other examples include training local
   governments to adopt a demand-driven approach for RWSS service delivery by building
   capacity of SOs and SAs.
4. Importance of behavioral change for health impact in RWSS projects. The project
   shows the importance of behavioral change for achieving sustainable health impacts in
   RWSS projects. Although a clear attribution to the project cannot be established in the
   absence of an impact evaluation, the substantial reduction in the prevalence of diarrheal
   disease in the project area provides strong indication of the benefits of combining RWSS
   with health and hygiene promotion.
5. The importance of livelihood support to enhance gender impact. The project had a
   remarkable gender impact by freeing women and girls of the time previously spent
   fetching water to distant locations. This impact was enhanced by mainstreaming
   livelihood initiatives, such as the formation of credit and saving groups, into the project
   design and piloting innovative gender-focused initiatives, such as the Jeevika Program.
   The important gender results of the project indicate that combining livelihood support
   activities with RWSS delivery greatly enhances gender impact.
6. Implications of growing demand for higher water service levels in rural areas.
   Adoption of higher service levels will eventually lead to increased generation of
   wastewater. As the desirable and feasible standards for improvements in service levels in
   rural areas increase over time, the Fund Board would need to reorient itself to address the
   emerging trends of growing demand for improved service levels in rural areas (including
                                             16
   the need for treatment and disposal of wastewater), while maintaining the criteria and
   principles of the current implementation model.
7. The importance of the development phase for the sustainability of RWSS schemes. The
   mandatory development phase of the Fund Board’s delivery model, during which
   communities are mobilized, and community decisions are made, is a unique feature and
   an important investment that assures ownership, successful implementation, and
   sustainability of the schemes.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower’s own evaluation report is attached in Annex 6. A draft ICR was sent to the
Borrower for comments on February 8, 2013. The Borrower reviewed the draft ICR and
provided written comments, which were taken into account in the finalization of the ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable




                                           17
                          Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
            Components                                     Estimate
                                     (US$ millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions)
Strengthening and Operation of the
                                            6.67               6.73                      101
Fund Board
Selection and Construction of
Water Supply and Environmental            26.52               31.68                      119
Schemes
Institutional Development Studies
 75
                                            0.73               1.06                      145
               Total Baseline Cost        33.92               39.47                      116
Physical Contingencies
                                                 3.39
Price Contingencies
                                                 4.20
               Total Project Costs              41.51                  39.47             95

(a) Project Cost by Category (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                                Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
          (b) Components                (US$ millions)
                                                                  Estimate
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                                (US$ millions)
Works: RWSS Schemes
(a) Development Phase                           32.52                   4.49             97
(b) Implementation Phase                                               27.19
 Goods                                           0.31                   0.33            106
 Consulting Services and Studies                 0.92                   1.06            115
Training                                         2.32                   1.03             44
Monitoring and Evaluation and
                                                 3.11                   1.84             59
Publicity
Operating Costs
 95
                                                 2.33                   3.53            152

               Total Project Costs              41.51                  39.47              95


(c) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of                                    Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                           Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                          (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                       6.6           5.86            89
IDA                                                           25.3           25.55          101
Local Communities                                              4.6           8.06           175
DFID                                           Grant           5.0             0              0
Total                                                         41.5           39.47           95
Note:
1. US$ 0.25 million is an exchange gain on actual base US$:SDR under IDA credit.




                                                    18
B.      Project Costs Based on Additional Financing (IDA Grant)

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
            Components                                    Estimate
                                      (US$ millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions)
Strengthening and Operation of the
Fund Board
                                             3.90             5.42                      139
 Selection and Construction of
Water Supply and Environmental             20.50             21.53                      105
Schemes
 Institutional Development Studies           1.70             1.50                       88
                Total Baseline Cost        26.10             28.45                      109
Physical Contingencies                       2.50
Price Contingencies                          3.50
                Total Project Costs        32.10             28.45                       89

(c) Project Cost by Category (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
         (d) Components                (US$ millions)
                                                              Estimate
                                                                                     Appraisal
                                                            (US$ millions)
Works: RWSS Schemes
(a) Development Phase                        5.2                   3.40                  65
(b) Implementation Phase                    19.90               18.13                    91
Monitoring, Evaluation and
Publicity, Training, Studies and             5.60                  4.22                  75
Sector Development, Goods etc.
Operating Costs                              1.40                  2.70                193
               Total Project Costs          32.10                   28.45               89

(c) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                       (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                    1.2           1.05            88
IDA                                                         27           22.38            83
 Local Communities                                          3.9           5.02           129
Total                                                      32.10            28.45             89

C.      Consolidated Project Costs (IDA Credit and Grant)

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
           Components                                     Estimate
                                     (US$ millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                       (US$ millions)
Strengthening and Operation of the
Fund Board
                                          10.57              12.15                      115
Selection and Construction of
Water Supply and Environmental            47.02              53.21                      113
Schemes

                                                19
Institutional Development Studies            2.43                    2.56               105
               Total Baseline Cost          60.02                   67.92               113
Physical Contingencies                       5.89
Price Contingencies                          7.70
               Total Project Costs          73.61                   67.92                92
        Total Financing Required

(b) Project Cost by Category (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                             Percentage of
           Components                                         Estimate
                                       (US$ millions)                                Appraisal
                                                            (US$ millions)
 Works: RWSS Schemes
(a) Development Phase                        7.80                  7.86
(b) Implementation Phase                    52.42                  45.32
                                                                                         92
Monitoring, Evaluation and
Publicity, Training, Studies and            12.26                  8.51                  69
Sector Development, Goods etc.
Operating Costs                              3.73                  6.23                 167
               Total Project Costs          73.61                  67.92                 92


(c) Financing
                                                         Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                           Type of                                   Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate       Estimate
                                         Cofinancing                                  Appraisal
                                                       (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
Borrower                                                    7.8              6.91             89
IDA                                                         52.3            47.35             92
Local Communities                                            8.5            13.08             154
DFID                                        Grant             5               0                0
Total                                                       73.6            67.92             92




                                                20
D.         Status of Sources and Uses of RWSSP Funding


                                 Financing Plan                                Actual Expenditures
                                                                                                          Balance
              Original Project Additional                      % of                             % of
                                                  Total                Total     % of Actual
 Source Original       Revised Financing                       Total                           Original
  GoN      6.6          11.6      1.2             12.8         17.4    6.91          10%        54%         5.89
 Commu
           4.6           4.6         3.9           8.5         11.5    13.08         19%        154%         -
 -nities 1
  DFID      5             0           0             0            0       -           0%          0%          -
     IDA      25.3      25.55       21.80         47.35        71.1    47.93         70%        102%       (0.74)
 Total        41.5      41.75       26.74         68.49         100    67.92        99%         99%         5.15
Notes:
1. Community contributions include cash & kind contribution
2. Community contributions for the schemes are higher than the projections
3. US$ 5 million of DFID did not materialize, and was borne by GON
4. US$ 0.25 million under original project is an exchange gain on actual base US$:SDR under IDA credit
5. IDA canceled US$ 4 million




                                                          21
                           Annex 2: Outputs by Component

                Output Description                    Unit      Target         Actual
A. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Outputs
Total number of water supply schemes constructed      No.        1,463          1,465
(a) Rain harvesting schemes                           No.      No target        13
(b) Gravity water schemes                             No.      No target        1191
(c) Dug well schemes                                  No.      No target          34
(d) Shallow tubewell schemes                          No.      No target         170
(e) Lift deep tubewell schemes                        No.      No target          57
Total water points                                    No.       24,000         29,482
of which, yard taps/house connections                 No.      No target        1,389
Total number of sanitation units constructed          No.       50,000        137,536
(a) Sanitation units using SRLF                       No.      No target       64,407
(b) Sanitation units using own funds                  No.      No target       72,080
(c) Sanitation units in institutions (e.g. schools)   No.      No target        1,049
B. Coverage by RWSS
Number of beneficiaries                               No.      1,045,464      1,140,892
C. Health and Hygiene Outputs
Number of hand washing programs introduced            No.      No target       2,173
D. Process, Technical and Financial Compliance
RWSSP Sector M&E System and MIS                       No.    Not available    Available
CD impact assessments                                 No.          4             4
Technical audits                                      No.          4             4
Sustainability audits                                 No.          6             7
Financial audits of SOs                               No.      No target        259
Financial audits of schemes                           No.      No target        346
Scheme sustainability score (Batch V)                 %        No target        94
Scheme functionality score (Batch V)                  %        No target         96
Schemes covered by risk insurance (pilot)             No.    New initiative     36
E. Documents and Manuals Prepared
Operational manuals produced                          No.      No target         17
F. Social Capital Development
SOs engaged                                           No.      No target        175
WSUCs formed and registered                           No.      No target       1,955
WSUCs with more than 3 women members                  No.      No target        585
WTSS formed                                           No.      No target       2,691
Village maintenance workers                           No.      No target       1,513
Communities reporting post-implementation status      %          100           94.33
G. Economic Activities Generated
Credit and savings groups formed                      No.      No target       2,885
Percentage increase in Household income of WTSS       %        No target         24
members
Jeevika committees formed (pilot)                     No.    New initiative     53
Jagran committees formed (pilot)                      No.    New initiative     300
H. Funding Support for the Project
IDA credit and Grant (additional funding)             US$        25 M           52 M
DfID grant                                            US$        5.0 M          0.0 M




                                                22
                          Batch-wise Main Project Outputs
A. Number of rural water supply schemes completed / in operation
                                                                   Achieved,         Achieved,
                   Original         Revised
   Batch                                           Achieved       % of original     % of revised
                   Target           Target
                                                                     target           target
IV                   48               47              46               96                98
V                   244              315             315              129               100
VI                  330              350             331              100                95
VII                 359              400             427              119               107
VIII                374              351             346              93                 99
Total              1,355            1,463           1,465             108               100
Note: The Fund Board has completed 46 schemes of Batch IV carried over from RWSSP I. It has also started
preparation of 450 schemes in Batch IX. All schemes in Batch IX are in the development phase.

B. Number of households benefiting from the rural water supply schemes
                                                                   Achieved,        Achieved,
                   Original         Revised
   Batch                                           Achieved       % of original    % of revised
                   Target           Target
                                                                     target          target
IV                   4,800            4,700          5,823              121             124
V                   24,400           31,500         38,703              159             123
VI                  33,000           35,000         42,399              128             121
VII                 35,900           40,000         56,175              156             140
VIII                37,400           35,100         47,072              126             134
Total              135,500          146,300         190,172             140             130

C. Population benefiting from the rural water supply schemes
                                                                   Achieved,        Achieved,
                   Original         Revised
   Batch                                           Achieved       % of original    % of revised
                   Target           Target
                                                                     target          target
IV                  28,800           35,562          35,242           122              99
V                  146,400          233,986         233,986           160             100
VI                 198,000          246,160         249,464           126             101
VII                215,400          284,056          335,051          156             118
VIII               224,400          245,700         287,149           128             117
Total              813,000        1,045,464        1,140,892          140             109

D. Number of water points and toilets constructed
                                                        Toilets
Batch       Water points
                                 SRLF         SELF Help    Institutions              Total
IV               827              2,555          2,825              23                5,403
V               6,021            14,565          16,424             255              31,244
VI              7,123            14,616          17,863             238              32,717
VII             9,437            21,593          22,475             312              44,380
VIII            6,460            11,078          12,493             221              23,792
Total           29,868           64,407          72,080            1,049            137,536

                                                   23
                            Process Activities Used to Achieve Outputs

       Communities decided priorities and service levels corresponding to affordability and
        willingness to pay.
       The Fund Board defined basic service level as access to water within a 15-minute
        round-trip walk, with water available at public tap stands serving 7 to 10 households,
        at design consumption of 45 lpcd (and in extreme cases of 25 lpcd).
       Consumers paid incremental cost of any higher level of service decided by the
        community.
       During the development phase (of about 10 months), (i) the community formed the
        WSUG and registers it under the Water Resources Act in the District with the WSUC
        (Committee) representing the community; (ii) the community identified priorities, and
        service levels; (iii) the community prepared designs and cost estimates, conforming to
        unit cost guidelines established by the Fund Board (with the help of the SO); (iv) the
        SA (primarily consulting firms) appraised technical, financial and economic aspects
        of schemes; (v) the community collected upfront contributions (of at least 20% in
        cash and kind overall and 10% from the ultra-poor identified by the community) and
        O&M funds, with funds deposited in the community bank account; (vi) the WSUC
        and SO opened the joint bank account to receive Fund Board’s funds for
        implementation; and (vii) the Fund Board carried out compliance audit of CD
        activities.
       During the implementation phase (of about one year), the community (i) procured
        and transported non-local material; (ii) constructed civil works under a tripartite
        contract between the WSUC, the SO8 and the Fund Board.
       During the post-implementation phase (of two years), the SO (i) provided TA to the
        community for scheme level problems which the community is unable resolve on its
        own and (ii) trained the community to fill up the post-implementation scheme status
        report for submission every six-monthly to the VDC, DDC and the Fund Board.

Sanitation

       The Fund Board provided grants from the SRLF to communities to cover the cost of
        the foreign materials (water seal, pan, pipes, cement etc.) and skilled labor required to
        construct a domestic sanitary latrine. The grant amount covers the costs of sanitary
        latrines for 25% of the households in the community without sanitary latrines. The
        community was expected to manage the funds by setting objective criteria for
        prioritizing the selection of applicants and setting the terms and conditions for
        repayment of the loan. The revolving funds remained in the community to fund
        rehabilitation and new construction of latrines.9
       Communities were expected to eventually achieve 100% coverage in sanitation by
        leveraging the grant and contributing their own funds to construct latrines.
       The Fund Board provided grants for construction of toilets in institutions, e.g., schools.
       Each household constructed a twin-pit pour flush toilet

8
  SOs assisted communities to carry out construction, with the community contributing local materials and labor.
Except for skilled labor hired by the community, no contractors were hired.
9
  SRLF was a Grant to the community as a contribution for their efforts, and 100% sanitation coverage is
expected in communities received SRLF grant. The receiving community decided the criteria and the repayment
terms for the use of the SRLF, and could also give grants to poor households. The revolving funds remained in
the community to fund rehabilitation and new construction of latrines. Many households in the communities
used their own funds to construct latrines and did not wait for the fund to revolve to them.
                                                      24
      The community engaged and paid for a trained VHP, who provided advice on health,
       hygiene and hand washing at critical junctures.

Operation and Maintenance of Assets

      The community assumed ownership and full responsibility for O&M with funds
       collected form households
      The community engaged and paid a VMW to undertake O&M work.




                                          25
                          Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis

A. Water Supply Component

The project aimed to provide improved water supply services to a rural population of
1,045,464 from 1,463 schemes. At project completion, a population of 1,140,892 benefitted
from improved water supply through 1,465 water supply schemes implemented in four
batches (Batch V to VIII), including completion of 46 schemes from Batch IV initiated under
RWSSP I. In addition, the project supported the development phase of 577 schemes under
Batch IX.

The average scheme size is 778 people per scheme, above the estimate at appraisal of 600
people per scheme. Gravity water supply schemes account for 68% of the beneficiaries;
followed by shallow tubewell schemes (21%), lift water supply system schemes (6%), dug
well schemes (4%) and rainwater harvesting schemes (1%). Out of the 1,465 completed
water supply schemes under the project, 64% of the schemes are implemented in the Hill
ecological zone, 28% in the Tarai zone and 8% in the Mountain zone. The Central
development region accounts for 41% of the schemes, followed by the Western Region
(23%). About 18% of the total schemes in operation are in the Midwestern and Far Western
Regions. See Table 1.10

              Table 1: Distribution of Completed Water Supply Schemes and Beneficiaries
                                     by Region and Ecological Zone

                     Mountain                     Hills                    Tarai                       Total               Percentage
     Region
               schemes   Population     schemes      Population     schemes    Population    schemes      Population    schemes   Population

 Eastern           23         12,209       195            122,951         80        96,118      298        231,278        20%          20%
 Central           47         33,079       270            180,767        201       258,984      518        472,830        35%          41%
 Western             3            835      330            213,444         59        51,766      392        266,045        27%          23%
 Mid
                   31         17,916        64             37,741         36        30,961      131            86,618       9%          8%
 Western
 Far
                   16           8,451       83             49,557         27        26,113      126            84,121       9%          7%
 Western
 Total            120         72,490       942            604,460        403       463,942     1,465      1,140,892      100%        100%
 Percentage     8%           6%          64%              53%        28%           41%       100%          100%
 Source: RWSSFDB MIS System, accessed on August 31, 2012

At appraisal, a cost-benefit analysis was conducted to estimate the ERR for investments in
improved water supply and for the project as a whole. The main benefits quantified for the
cost-benefit analysis include time savings and increased availability of safe water. Additional
benefits –such as improved health and better hygiene practices and institutional strengthening
and sustainability–could not be quantified and were therefore excluded from the cost-benefit
analysis. The cost-benefit analysis has been replicated at completion to ascertain whether
the expected ERR has materialized at project closure. Only completed water supply schemes
(Batch V to VIII) are considered for the cost-benefit analysis of the water supply
investments.11

10
   As per 2001 national census, population distribution in Mountain, Hills and Tarai ecological zones are 7%,
44% and 49%. Population distribution is 23%, 35%, 20%, 12% and 10% in eastern, central, western, mid-
western and far-western development region respectively.
11
   Costs and benefits of Batch IV and IX schemes are excluded from the economic analysis because some of the
schemes costs of Batch IV were covered by RWSSP 1st phase; schemes of Batch IX are still in development or
                                                                    26
The cost-benefit analysis relied on the Fund Board’s monitoring database for cost and benefit
data. Annual O&M costs were estimated based on the information collected by the Fund
Board based on information from 74 selected completed schemes.

Benefits

The main benefits accrued to households are the time savings from fetching water and the
increased availability of safe water.

Time saving. The main benefit for the households in the participating communities is the
time saving from fetching water. The average time saving is 2.1 hours per household. Time
savings range from 3.8 hours per household per day for gravity schemes – the most popular
technology – to 1.2 hours per household per day for shallow tubewell schemes. Women and
girls living in the rural areas are mainly responsible for fetching water, and the time saving
accrued to women is 90% of the total time saved. The time saved is likely to translate into
increase in time for engaging in productive activities, providing opportunities for increasing
household income. The average time saving exceeds the estimate at appraisal for all
technology options (with the exception of shallow tubewells). Time savings are presented in
table 2 below.

                     Table 2: Average Time Saving (Hours per household per day)

                                         Average time saving (Hours/HH/day)                      Estimated at
           Technology                                                                             appraisal
                            Maximum        Minimum                            Average          (Hours/HH/day)
Gravity                        4.1             3.7                              3.8                   1.8
Shallow tubewell               1.7             1.0                              1.2                  1.35
Dug well                       4.2             1.9                              2.6                  1.35
Lift                           2.7             1.7                              2.3                  NA
Rain water harvesting          5.3             3.8                              4.8                   1.8
Source: RWSSFDB MIS System, accessed on August 20, 2012

Increased availability of safe water. The incremental water consumption resulting from
access to improved water supply is another quantifiable benefit from the project. Increased
availability of safe water is likely to result in significant health benefits and reduced medical
expenditures for the households. Availability of adequate quantities of water may also allow
the use of more water for gardening, small animal husbandry, livestock production and other
water intensive activities that increase food consumption or income opportunities. Data on
per capita water consumption before and after the project are collected by the Fund Board.
The benefits from the increased water consumption resulting from the project are evaluated
based on the prevailing water tariff, and is therefore a conservative estimate.12 On average,
water consumption increased from 13.8 lpcd to 43.2 lpcd in the project area.



implementation phase, and benefits have not yet materialized. Therefore, the number of schemes and
beneficiaries data presented in this analysis may be different from the data presented in other sections of the ICR.
12
   Benefit from incremental water is evaluated based on quantity increased water used and prevailing tariff rate.
Prevailing average tariff rate of gravity and lift schemes are derived from the information collected by
WRSSFDB from 74 samples. Since information of shallow tubewell, dug well and rainwater harvesting is not
available tariff rate of those technology is assumed 50% of tariff of gravity schemes.
                                                        27
Population served by the project: The total number of beneficiaries is 1.1 million.
Households receiving improved water supply services under completed schemes are
considered beneficiaries of the project for the economic analysis

Costs
The actual per capita capital cost at constant prices (community contributions included) is
used for the economic analysis. Annual O&M costs are estimated based on annual O&M
expenditure data collected by the Fund Board for 74 schemes.13 Per capita average annual
O&M cost for gravity is NRs 72 and NRs 100 for lift schemes. O&M cost for other
technologies is assumed to be 50% of O&M cost of gravity schemes. The per capita
investment costs for all technology options (except for dug well schemes) are less than the
per capita cost estimated at appraisal.14 Table 3 below shows the per capita cost at constant
price by technology and batch. It is worth noting that the lower per capita costs of lift
schemes, relative to gravity schemes, is mostly due to the larger size of lift schemes. The few
lift schemes funded under the project are concentrated in the Tarai ecological zone, where
population concentration is highest, and economies of scale could be achieved in the
provision of rural water supply. The average serving population of lift schemes is 781,
compared to 659 for gravity schemes.
        Table 3: Per Capita Investment by Technology (NRs) at Constant Prices 2004
                                             Shallow Tube                         Rainwater           Deep
      Batch/Phase              Gravity                           Dug Well
                                                 Well                             Harvesting      tubewell (lift)
Batch V
Development Phase                  331                331             331               0              331
Implementation Phase              2,696               739            1,962              0             2,175
Total                             3,027              1,070           2,293              0             2,505
Batch VI
Development Phase                  360                360             360              360             360
Implementation Phase              2,881               929            1,773            4,509           3,958
Total                             3,241              1,289           2,133            4,869           4,317
Batch VII
Development Phase                  345                345             345              345             345
Implementation Phase              3,152               971            1,821            4,332           2,872
Total                             3,498              1,316           2,167            4,678           3,218
Batch VIII
Development Phase                  619                249             211              287             247
Implementation Phase              3,764              1,119           2,377            5,403           3,525
Total                             4,383              1,368           2,589            5,691           3,772
Average
Development Phase                  414                321             312              248             321
Implementation Phase              3123                939            1984             3561            3132
Total                             3,537              1,261           2,295            3,809           3,453
Note: Per capita cost data in current price is taken from the Fund Board as of August 20, 2012.




13
   Per capita average annual O&M cost for gravity is NRs 72 and NRs 100 for lift schemes. O&M cost for other
technologies is assumed 50% O&M cost of gravity schemes.
14
   Per capita capital cost estimated in 2004 at appraisal were: NRs 2,619 for gravity schemes, NRs 860 for
shallow tube well schemes, NRs 1,137 for dug well schemes and NRs 3,321 for rainwater harvesting schemes.
                                                       28
Costs and Benefit Analysis

Main Assumptions for Economic Analysis: Assumptions for economic analysis are in line
with the assumptions set at project appraisal.

          Benefits and costs have been forecasted over a 20 year horizon from 2004, the first
           year of project implementation.
          Border prices have been estimated by applying the standard conversion factor of 0.9
           to all domestic expenditure and benefits
          The opportunity cost of capital is estimated at 12%.
          Population growth is assumed to be 1.72%in line with the annual rural population
           growth rate.15
          Average rural agricultural daily wage rate is assumed to be NRs 85 for male, NRs 65
           for female and NRs 75 on average.16
          As per the findings of the Detailed Demand Assessment Study carried out by the Fund
           Board for Batch IV in 2002, it is assumed that the 25% of time saved by women in
           fetching water is used in economic activities, 41% for household activities and self-
           improvement (adult education) and the remaining 34% for leisure time. For men it is
           assumed that 33% of time saving is used in economic activities, 20% for household
           work and self-improvement and 47% for leisure. Economic activities are valued at
           100% of the rural wage rate, household activities and self-improvement are valued at
           50% of the wage rate and leisure activities are valued at 25% of the wage rate.

Economic Rate of Return. The ERR has been calculated for each technology separately for
all completed water supply schemes and for the project as a whole. The ERR estimates are
conservative since health benefits are not incorporated into the calculation of benefits. ERR
of all schemes is 31.05% which is higher than the ERR estimated at appraisal (24.57%) and
only slightly below the revised estimates carried out at the time of the additional financing
(37.42%). The ERR range from 16.03% (lift schemes) to 32.15% (gravity schemes). All
technology options provide satisfactory ERRs, above the economic cost of capital (12%) and
positive Net Present Value (NPV). In addition, the estimated ERR of the project (22.08%) is
significantly higher than the ERR estimated at appraisal (16.70%). The project costs include
Fund Board's operating costs in addition to the costs of the schemes. The results of the
economic analysis are summarized below in Table 4.




15
     Central Bureau of Statistics. 2003. Monograph of Nepal 2003. Volume 1, page 382. Kathmandu: Nepal.
16
     Central Bureau of Statistics. Nepal Living Standard Survey 2004. Volume 2, page 63. Kathmandu: Nepal.
                                                       29
                  Table 4: Summary of ERR and NPV Estimates by Technology

                              Shallow         Dug                      Rain water         All
  Parameters       Gravity                               Lift                                     Project
                              Tubewell        well                     harvesting      schemes
At project closure (2012)
ERR (%)             32.15        25.82        29.70      16.03           28.65          31.05      22.80
NPV (NRs M)         1,737        109           61         15              20            1,943      1,407
B/C Ratio            2.16        1.73         2.16       1.20             1.99          2.08           1.60
At project appraisal (2004)
ERR (%)             23.45        55.51        41.81        -              4.79          24.57      16.70

NPV (NR M)           866         141           61          -              -16           1,052          542

At additional financing (2008)

ERR (%)             40.15        56.64        45.38      18.13           13.00          37.42      25.69

NPV (NR M)          1,685         49           94         9                7            1,845      1,362
Note: lift schemes were not included in the original project design, so ERR was not estimated at
appraisal

Sensitivity Analysis. Two scenarios have been considered for the sensitivity analysis at
project closure. The scenarios include (a) a 25% increase in total costs, and (b) a 25%
reduction in the total time spent in economically productive activities and household
activities. While the economic analysis at project closure is based on actual capital costs, the
higher cost scenario allows to ascertain the robustness of the ERR against an increase in
O&M costs over the lifetime of the schemes. The sensitivity analysis indicates that the ERRs
are robust to wide ranging deviations from the base case assumptions. The results are
presented in Table 5 below.
                                   Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis

                                                All Schemes-Water
                                                                                       Project
               Parameters                             Supply
                                                ERR         NPV                  ERR         NPV
                                                (%)      (NRs Million)           (%)     (NRs Millions)
At project closure
 Baseline                                        31            1,943             23             1,407
 25% higher costs                                24            1,494             17              825
 25% less time spent in economic activities      23            1,058             16              522
At appraisal
  Baseline                                       25            1,052             17              542
 25% higher costs                                19             704              12               67
 25% less time spent                             21             723              14              213




                                                    30
Sanitation

A full cost-benefit analysis of the sanitation component was not conducted at appraisal. The
analysis at completion is limited to an assessment of the efficiency of the SRLF in scaling up
coverage of sanitary latrines in the project area. Of 190,172 households in the project area,
only 11% (20,712) had improved sanitation facilities before the project intervention. An
additional 136,487 households received access to sanitary latrines in the participating
communities over the course of project implementation, and 1,049 sanitary toilets were
constructed in public buildings. Overall, the communities in the project areas needed 169,460
latrines, and 81% of the needs have been met (excluding public latrines). As a result,
households’ access to sanitary latrines has increased from 11% to 83% in the participating
communities. The funds have been effectively used. The leverage (measured by the number
of sanitary latrines constructed with communities’ own funds per number of sanitary latrines
constructed with SRLF) is above one (with an average of 1.1). The technical and financial
performance of the sanitation component is given below.

                            Sanitation Coverage before the Project

                                                   Number of         Coverage      Coverage
         No of schemes         Total HHs
Batch                                            Sanitary Toilets    Before the    after the
          completed          in project area
                                                before the project    project       project
 IV            46                5,823                 NA               0.0%        92.8%
 V            315               38,703                 NA               0.0%        80.7%
 VI           331               42,399                8,058            19.0%        96.2%
 VII          427               56,175                8,254            14.7%        93.7%
VIII          346               47,072                4,400             9.4%        59.9%
Total        1465               190,172              20,712           10.9%         83.2%

                 Sanitation Revolving Loan Fund (SRLF) Disbursement

                                      Latrine
                                                            SRLF Grant
                    Batch        Constructed Using
                                                              (NRs)
                                      SRLF
                     IV                2,555                  711,516
                     V                14,565                 19,902,253
                     VI               14,616                 19,502,700
                     VII              21,593                 25,238,780
                    VIII              11,078                 27,035,200
                    Total             64,407                 92,390,449




                                               31
              Number of Sanitary Latrine Constructed under the Project

                                             Sanitary Latrines
    Region/Zone                                            Public
                          SRLF          Self Help                         Total
                                                          buildings
Eastern                   13,928         15,494              235         29,657
      Mountains             790            909                15          1,714
        Hills              7,490          8,368              152         16,010
        Tarai              5,648          6,217               68         11,933
Central                   25,281         28,220              395         53,896
      Mountains            2,051          2,269               34          4,354
        Hills             10,960         12,282              185         23,427
        Tarai             12,270         13,669              176         26,115
Western                   15,492         17,499              268         33,259
      Mountains             55              57                2            114
        Hills             12,243         13,851              232         26,326
        Tarai              3,194          3,591               34          6,819
Mid Western                5,270          5,875               94         11,239
      Mountains            1,026          1,133               27          2,186
        Hills              2,189          2,517               45          4,751
        Tarai              2,055          2,225               22          4,302
Far Western                4,436          4,992               57          9,485
      Mountains             520            607                13          1,140
        Hills              2,496          2,784               28          5,308
        Tarai              1,420          1,601               16          3,037
Total                     64,407         72,080             1,049        137,536




                                        32
      Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
Names                                      Title                     Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Tashi Tenzing               Sr. Sanitary Engineer                  SASDU    TTL
William D. Kingdom          Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist   SASDU    TTL
Thirtha Rana                Sr. Health Specialist                  SASHN    Health
Jeeva Perumalpillai-Essex   Lead Operations Officer                CSASB    Project operations
Lynn Bennet                 Lead Social Scientist                  SARDS    Social Development
Rachel Bet Kauffmann        Sr. Public Health Specialist           SASHN    Health Specialist
Bigyan Pradhan              Sr. Financial Management Specialist    SARFM    Financial Management
Kiran Ranjan Baral          Sr. Procurement Officer                SARPS    Procurement
Christoffe Bosch            Sr. Water and Sanitation Economist     SASDU    Water and Sanitation
Mona Sur                    Economist                              EASNS    Economics
Nawaf A.Al-Mahamel          Counsel                                LEGES    Legal
Rajesh Sing                 Program Assistant                      SASDO    Program Assistance
Johana Thap                 Program Assistant                      EXC      Program Assistance
Jayashree Shreenivasan      Program Assistant                      SASDO    Program Assistance
Supervision/ICR
William D. Kingdom          Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist SASDU      TTL
A. D. C. Godavitarne        Consultant                           SASDU      ICR team
Elisa Muzzini               Sr. Economist                        SASDU      ICR team
Silva Shrestha              Water and Sanitation Specialist      SASDU      Water and Sanitation
Tashi Tenzing               Sr. Sanitary Engineer                SASD1      TTL
Kiran R. Baral              Senior Procurement Officer           SARPS      Procurement
Lynn Bennett                Consultant                           SASDS      Social Development
Samantha L. Forusz          Program Manager                      HRSAS      Program Management
Drona Raj Ghimire           Environmental Specialist             SASDI      Environment
Sunita Gurung               Program Assistant                    SASDO      Program Assistance
Sumbo Adeyemo               Program Assistant                    SASDO      Program Assistance
Sangeeta Kumari             Social Development Specialist        SASDS      Social Development
Yuka Makino                 Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec.        SASDI      Resource Management
Midori Makino               Lead Evaluation Officer              IEG        Financial analysis
Nagendra Nakarmi            Senior Program Assistant             SARFM      Program Assistance
                            Senior       Social    Development
Asta Olesen                                                      SASDS      Social Development
                            Specialist
Bigyan B. Pradhan           Senior Fin. Management Specialist SARFM         Financial Management
Johana Shah                 Program Assistant                    GCMCG      Program Assistance
Neena Shrestha              Procurement Assistant                SARPS      Procurement
 Mona Sur                   Senior Agriculture Economist         EASNS      Economics
Bigyan B. Pradhan           Sr. Financial Management Specialist SARFM       Financial Management
Nagendra Nakarmi            Sr. Program Assistant                SASDO      Program Assistance
Naresha Duraiswamy          Sr. Operations Officer               SASDU      Project Operations
Bandita Sijapati            Consultant                            SASDS     Social Development
Pawan Lohani                Consultant                           SASDU      Economic analysis




                                                   33
(e) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                    8.31                          14.17
  FY02                                   14.40                          99.29
  FY03                                   26.94                          93.33
  FY04                                   28                             55.91
 0
  FY05                                    0                             10.34
                          Total:         77.65                         273.04
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                    0                              0.00
  FY05                                   32.28                          54.52
  FY06                                   31.35                          56.86
  FY07                                   41.61                         109.31
  FY08                                   39.85                         117.86
  FY 09                                  39.76                          89.90
  FY 10                                  32.51                          78.12
  FY 11                                  35.69                          34.29
  FY 12                                  27.40                          70.92
  FY 13                                  14.47                          35.81
                          Total:        380.72                         611.78




                                       34
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results

          Not Applicable




                35
Annex 6: Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                 Not Applicable




                      36
                                Annex 7: Summary of Borrower's ICR

Project Background
Following the satisfactory completion of RWSSP-I and on the request of GoN, the Bank agreed to
provide credit assistance of worth US$ 25.3 million and the RWSSP-II project was signed between
GoN and IDA/WB in September 2004 for a period of 5 years (2004-2009) to implement the project
for extension and expansion of the rural water supply and sanitation facilities. The approach of the
RWSSP-II was to adopt the general approaches of RWSSP-I with some improvements aimed at
influencing the broader sector institutional performance for expanding the proven impact of the
approach on health, hygiene and sanitation, poverty reduction and social capital mobilization at the
grassroots level.

The physical target set for the RWSSP-II was to benefit 813,000 people through completion and
management of 1,355 rural water supply and sanitation schemes by the end of the project in 200917.
However, some delay in project implementation occurred because of the unstable political and
security situation of the country, delay in the nomination of board members by the Fund Board
resulting into late selection of the SOs, and delay in scheme selection finalization, while cost
overruns in the project occurred because of increased market price of the non-local materials. It was
concluded that additional financing would be required to complete the project target, along with an
extension of the project period. Following this, the project received additional funding (shifting from
credit to grant) of US$ 27 million with a time extension of one year until December 31, 2010, one
year beyond the original project completion. Along with this additional financing, the scope of the
project was also restructured with a new target of 1,463 rural water supply and sanitation schemes
benefiting more than (additional) one million populations by December 2010. The project duration
was extended two times and the final closing date of the RWSSP-II was August 2012. The grant
agreement for the additional financing was signed between GoN and IDA/WB in August 2008. The
13th implementation support review (January 2011) canceled a sum of US$ 4 million (saved money
due primarily to increase in exchange rate of US$ and cost effectiveness of Board’s schemes) from
the additional grant of US$ 27 million making it to US$ 23 million, based on the Fund Board’s
financial projections and fund requirements for the completion of 1,463 schemes.

The RWSSP-II encompasses three major programme components: (i) strengthening and operation of
the Fund Board; (ii) identification, selection and construction of water supply and sanitation
schemes; and (iii) undertaking institutional development studies (RWSS sector knowledge
development).

Major Achievements and Contributions of RWSSP-II
The overall achievements of the project were highly satisfactory and the PDOs and impact indicators
were achieved. Implementation of RWSSP-I and RWSSP-II had an impressive impact on health and
hygiene of the project beneficiary households, and contributed significantly to save women from the
drudgery of fetching water with time saving of approximately 3.2 hours per day throughout the year.

The project was able to make significant progress on empowering communities to manage and
maintain their own water supply and sanitation facilities through the participatory decision-making
approach. Formation and functioning of an autonomous Fund Board with a permanent legal status,
the gradual development of the sense of project ownership among the beneficiaries, and most
important of all, involving the community in demand driven development, implementation and
operation & management of rural water supply schemes were some major achievements of the
project. Hence, RWSSPs implemented by Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Fund Development

17
     Aid Memoire, Nepal: Second Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project, The World Bank, December 2009
                                                      37
Board have paved the way for furthering and expanding the community driven development
approach in the water and sanitation sector.

PDO 1: To improve rural water supply and sanitation sector institutional performance and
mainstream “Fund Board? approach in the Government’s system:


   i) Contribution to National Sector Policy

At the time of project appraisal, the sector policy of 1998 was not very clear regarding the
institutional setup and demarcation of roles of sector agencies. The RWSS National Policy as well as
the National Strategic Action Plan Document (2004) recognized the contributions made by the Fund
Board in the RWSS sector and incorporated some of the following lessons and experiences from the
Fund Board in the policy and strategy documents: (i) adoption of demand-driven and participatory
approach, (ii) inclusion of the development phase for social mobilization to increase awareness and
understand procedures, for smooth running of project; (iii) community contributions for
participation, ownership and sustainability of the project; (iv) collection of upfront O&M fund for
the sustainability of the project; (v) equity considerations and social inclusion; (vi) public-private
partnership with cost sharing; (vii) pro-poor strategy in remote areas; and (viii) community/women
empowerment. These elements were the key features of the Fund Board’s modality tested and
proven at the field level through 900 schemes during the RWSSP-I. Moreover, the RWSS National
Policy as well as the National Strategic Action Plan Documents (2004) clearly recognize and define
the roles and responsibilities of the Fund Board as an established sector institution.

The project design did not make any provision to support the liaison ministry (earlier MPPW but
now MoUD) for broader policy and institutional reforms. Project interventions were designed
within the operational domain of the Fund Board (except for the M&E unit support provided to
MPPW), while improvement in sector performance at a higher level was out of reach of the Fund
Board.

   ii. Mainstreaming Fund Board’s Lessons in the Sector

The mainstreaming of the 'Fund Board model' has already taken place during the 10th Plan, the
sector policy chapter of the 10th plan captured the major elements of the Fund Board model as
guiding principles for programs in the sector. The sector policy of 2004 embraced the concept of
development phase, community contribution, demand driven approach, women empowerment and
economic development of the communities served by the RWSSP schemes, which were the key
elements of the Fund Board model. Other donors, such as the ADB and FINNIDA have adopted the
features of the Fund Board modality such as community contribution, social mobilization,
facilitation services from NGOs and to some extent, the community procurement system. Upfront
collection of O&M funds by the community before the construction of the schemes is another good
practice adopted by the Fund Board, which is being adopted gradually by other service providers in
the sector.

   iii. Fund Board exercising its Autonomy

The Fund Board exercised full autonomy for all operational activities, except for the requirement of
concurrence of the liaison ministry on the matters of staff remuneration. The Fund Board faced some
difficulties due to the delay in the nomination of Board members by GoN; and some court cases on
the nomination and terms of office of some Board members.



                                               38
    iv. Institutionalization of the Fund Board

The GoN has agreed to the establishment of the Fund Board as a regular sector institution to deliver
RWSS services to the rural population of Nepal. To this end, a bill to formally institutionalize the
Board was submitted to the Parliament for approval. The Fund Board has actively supported the
liaison ministry in the process of drafting the bill. Because the parliament was dissolved before the
bill was discussed, the bill could not be passed in spite of two attempts from the liaison ministry.

   v. Contribution to the Strengthening Sector M & E

The institutional capacity to coordinate and facilitate monitoring of sector activities was inadequate.
Hence, GoN has utilized the resources available with the Fund Board from RWSSP-II for the design,
establishment and operationalization of a web-based sector M&E and DSS system at the ministerial
level and to train the staff of the ministry, line agencies and district level staff involved in the sector
data management. The system is now in operation with data sharing from major sector stakeholders;
additional service providing agencies of the sector are being linked with this system. This system is
functioning as the centre point for collecting all sector data and contributing to the sector M & E
work.

The intent of PDO 1 was the policy reform, system development, institutional strengthening and
capacity building of the sector agencies at policy and operational level. The sector reform has taken
place during the project period and the RWSSP-II contributed to achieve this objective. GoN has
made significant achievements in the policy and institutional landscape of the rural water supply and
sanitation sector during the project period.

PDO 2: To support communities to form inclusive local water supply and sanitation user
groups that can plan, implement, and operate drinking water and sanitation infrastructure
that delivers sustainable health, hygiene, and productivity benefits to rural households.

   i. Contribution in MDG Target and National Coverage

The population served by water supply and sanitation sector services in the country by 2010 was
78% and 37%, respectively, in rural Nepal, of which the Fund Board alone contributed 18.04% and
16.53% respectively since its establishment in 1996.

The projected contribution of the Board to the MDG target (of 73% in water supply and 53% in
sanitation by 2015), will be 30% and 21%, respectively. The area coverage of the Fund Board
interventions to date reached 74 districts out of total 75 districts of Nepal. The ecological coverage
of schemes in the project was 8.19% in the mountain area, 63.55 % in Hills and 28.26 % in Tarai
area. About 29% of the total schemes in RWSSP-II were located in 10 to more than 20 km distance
from the road head, which is almost one to two full days of walk. Another 13% of the schemes were
located in 5-10 km distance i.e., a half to a full day walk from the road head, and about 58% of
schemes were located less than 5 km distance from the road head.

   ii. Number of Completed and Ongoing Schemes

As per the PAD, the target of the project was 1,355 schemes, which was revised during the
additional financing to 1,463 schemes. This target was adjusted to include additional schemes (in
Batches-V and VI) that the Fund Board was implementing. It has to be noted that the project had
two different scheme targets scenarios: the first scenario was 1,355 schemes as originally set out in
the PAD; the second scenario was the revised target of 1,463 schemes at the time of additional
financing (which also included additional 90 schemes). Without these additional schemes the

                                                  39
revised effective target of the project would have been 1,373 schemes. However, as agreed with
World Bank monitoring missions, the final scheme target for the project was 1,463 schemes.

By the end of the project (August 31st, 2012), the Fund Board has completed a total of 1,465
schemes (from Batch-IV to Batch-VIII) against the revised target of 1463 schemes, representing an
achievement of 100.14%. 1,445 schemes were closed completely, while 20 schemes are awaiting the
administrative closure process, i.e, submission by the SO of the letter confirming closure of the joint
bank account. About 300 schemes from Batch-VIII and Batch-IX were in the implementation phase
at project closure, of which 38 schemes are expected to be completed and become operational by
November 2012.

   iii. Population Coverage

The project exceeded the population coverage target. The original population coverage of the project
as per PAD was 813,000, which was revised during the additional financing to 882,000. The
projected target of the project population coverage as per the contracted total schemes was
1,045,464. The actual population covered by the project through 1,465 completed schemes was
1,140,892, which is 140.33% of the PAD original target, 129.35% of the revised target, and
109.13% of the projected target by the end of this project. However, the project expects to complete
another 38 ongoing schemes by the end of November 2012, which will significantly increase the
population coverage with full or partial funding of the project.

   iv. Health, Hygiene and Sanitation

The project supported construction of total 137,536 sanitary toilets in the scheme communities. Out
of the total toilet constructed 64,407 units were constructed through self-help financing by the
households, 72,080 units through the use of SRLF and 1,049 units were constructed at institutions
(schools) using the project resources. The total sanitation coverage in the scheme areas has reached
to 81.17% against a baseline of 10.89% of households with existing toilets. The sanitation data entry
of Batch-VIII is still ongoing, after the completion of the data entry the actual coverage of sanitation
is estimated to grow at least by another 8-10%.

The percentage increase of individuals practicing hand washing increased significantly by 64.37%.
The baseline data for hand washing practices was 32.58% and at the project end it reached to
92.96%, illustrating the effectiveness of social mobilization, use of Self-esteem Associative strength,
Resourcefulness, Action planning, and Responsibility tools, and other health, hygiene and sanitation
awareness-building activities of the Fund Board.

   v. Environmental Management

The Fund Board also provided high consideration for environmental management in the schemes.
Source protection, intake protection, reservoir protection, water point protection, surface drainage
improvement, protection of pipelines, fencing of structures and waste water management in the tap
area were the key environmental management aspects of the Fund Board schemes. The WSUCs
were required to prepare an 'Environmental Management Action Plan (EMAP)' as part of the
community action plan to take necessary measures for environmental protection.

   vi. Water Quality and Material Quality Assurance

The Fund Board gave high emphasis to water quality assurance through a three stage water quality
testing during the scheme cycle, namely, during pre-development phase, during development phase
and after the completion of the scheme. In the case of quality issues identified during the water

                                                40
quality test, appropriate mitigation measures were taken, to the extent possible, including change in
the technical design, specifications of the scheme or completely changing the technical options.
Construction material quality assurance was another key feature of the Fund Board modality. SAs
were mobilized to do material quality spot checks after the non-local materials reached the scheme
site to assure that the materials procured were up to the specified standards.

Batch wise Technical, Operational and Environmental Audits were also conducted on a 30% sample
basis, to ensure that construction quality of the scheme was as per the design standards and to assure
long-term functionality of the schemes. A recent in-house study has revealed that the functionality
status of the schemes is about 96% against a national status of only 48%. To date, Technical,
Operational and Environmental Audits of Batches IV-VII (4 studies) were completed within the
project period.

   vii. Technical Options for every needs

The project provided different technical options for the different needs and choices of the
communities, depending upon their geo-physical conditions. While RWSSP-I focused on the hill
areas and gravity system schemes, RWSSP-II expanded the technical options and coverage as
follows:

                                             % of Schemes Area Covered
Technical Options
                                             (No=1465)
Gravity schemes                                    81.30  Hill, mountain and Chure in Tarai
Deep tube well (ground lift) schemes                 0.68       Chure and Tarai area

Dug well (ground water) schemes                      2.32       Tarai area

Ground Water Shallow Tubewell schemes               11.60       Tarai area
Surface Lift schemes                                 3.21       Hill/Tarai area (overhead tank)
                                                                Served areas (unavailability of
Rain Water Harvesting Schemes                        0.89
                                                                gravity or ground water sources)

The multiple technological options provided by the Fund Board helped the communities address
their water and sanitation needs regardless of their water source difficulties.

   viii. Community Contribution

A higher level of community contribution, both in cash and kind, was a key feature of the Fund
Board’s model. The PAD envisaged a community contribution of 11.5%, while the actual
contribution reached 19%, i.e., 154% of the original projection. In addition, many communities
opted for a higher level of services, i.e., individual yard connections, by making additional
contributions for the higher level of services.

   ix. Contribution to Poverty Reduction, Human Capital Development and Economic
       Development

Impact assessments of the CD activities conducted by the Fund Board indicated that the time saved
and used for productive works has increased the income and employment of the beneficiaries,
represented by an increase of 24% income and 30% employment, that supported poverty reduction.


                                               41
Women groups established through the WTSS accumulated about US$ 0.8 million through their
local savings and credit activities, which were used for micro income generation activities by the
group members. In total, there were 967,280 women members in 2,885 WTSS groups that directly
benefited from this initiative during the project period. The programs will continue even after the
project in the respective communities.

The Fund Board supported capacity building for more than 60,000 individuals at the SO, SA and
community level. The schemes also created about 64,000 person months of employment
opportunities.

   x.   Social Accountability

The Fund Board introduces social accountability and transparency as a major thrust of the project to
improve the governance of the schemes. This included Social Audits, information boards at the
scheme sites and regular meetings of WSUC, third party monitoring, technical and financial audits
of the schemes. The Fund Board made good efforts to assure transparency at all levels.

   xi. Functionality and Sustainability

To assess sustainability, the Fund Board conducted Short-Term and Long-Term Sustainability Study
after 3 and 5 years of the completion of the schemes. By project closure, the Fund Board conducted
seven sustainability (3 short- term and 4 long- term) studies up to Batch-VI, starting from Batch-I.
The sustainability of the schemes was rated high (93%) in the most recent sustainability studies.
Functionality of the schemes was 96% against a national functionality rate of 48% (as per National
Management Information Program sector status report 2011).

Upfront collection of O&M funds by the WSUCs was another good practice of the Fund Board
modality, which was instrumental in assuring the higher level of sustainability and functionality of
the schemes. Minor repairs were undertaken by the WSUCs utilizing this fund. The Mother and
Child Tap Stand groups formed to take care of the functionality of the tap stands was another
element that contributed to improve overall sustainability of the schemes.

One local person was trained as the VMW in each of the scheme. The presence of paid VMW was
one of the key factors contributing to a high percentage of functionality and sustainability of the
schemes.

Recently, the Board has also initiated the Scheme Insurance Programme to protect natural calamities
like earthquake, landslides and flood which is considered to be a good initiative contributing to the
functionality and sustainability of the schemes.

   xii. Cost and Resource Utilization Efficiency

The Fund Board modality has demonstrated cost and resource utilization effectiveness. MoF data
showed that, during 1996-2010, the total public spending in the RWSSP sector was NRs. 45.6
billion out of which the Fund Board’s spending was only NRs. 2.3 billion. According to the MDG
status report 2010 (NPC), the total population coverage of RWSSP during this period was 7,446,795,
out of which the Fund Board provided services to 1,343,090. During the same period, the Fund
Board covered 18% of the population (of the total beneficiaries in the sector) utilizing only 5% of
the total resources invested in the sector within that period.




                                               42
With respect to cost effectiveness, a per capita cost analysis, and comparison with the poverty
alleviation fund (PAF) of rural water supply services indicated that the per capita cost of the Fund
Board’s schemes was 24.47% lower.

Although the Fund Board model was based on community procurement of the non-local materials
required for the scheme construction, the average unit rate of non-local materials purchased for the
schemes was significantly lower than other similar projects of GoN. For example, in RWSSP II
HDP pipes purchased by communities were 27% lower than rates of a similar project in Jajarkot
District during the year 2008/2009.

   xiii. Innovations

The Fund Board introduced innovations on economic empowerment, sustainability and
accountability of the schemes, including Jagaran Committees (to assure local level accountability),
scheme insurance program, Jeevika program and life insurance and remittance, as pilot activities,
which require further strengthening in future operations.

The Jagaran program comprised a committee of local people who were not part of the WSUC, with
a mandate for local level monitoring of project implementation activities looking into the work of all
three parties, i.e. SO, SA and WSUC, involved in the scheme execution. This pilot initiative was
introduced in 300 schemes during the project period.

The Jeevika Program was another pilot initiative that provided linkages to WTSS/Jeevika Groups
with local Micro Finance Institutions, and commercial banks for easy access to credit for micro
income generating activities. By project closure, the Fund Board had started this initiative for 53
groups.

Scheme Insurance was another pilot initiative that Fund Board piloted under RWSSP-II to cover the
risk of damage to the scheme due to natural disasters, such as floods, landslides, earthquakes, and
fire. This initiative was piloted in 36 schemes.

   xiv. Gender Equity and Social Inclusion

The WSUC formation rules were very specific on the participation of women, dalit and other
marginalized communities, and all schemes complied with these inclusion requirements. All
WSUCs had the minimum three women members; and 585 WSUCs had more than three women
members. Total beneficiaries comprised 49% women.

The WTSS component directed towards women’s economic empowerment supports the theme of
the poverty reduction strategy adopted by the government. The project beneficiary women from the
scheme areas have formed 2,885 WTSS groups covering 967,280 women members.

The social mix of the household coverage in completed schemes under this project was: 15.64%
dalit; 31.78% indigenous disadvantaged people; 36.51% upper caste; 5% indigenous advantaged
groups; 9.63% other caste groups; and 1.44% religious minorities. Similarly, the representation of
different caste groups in the WSUCs was about: 38% upper caste groups; 17% dalit; 33%
indigenous disadvantaged people; 5% indigenous advantaged group; 6% other caste groups; and 1%
religious minorities.




                                               43
   xv. Procurement System

The project's procurement was done according to the Bank’s procurement guidelines. The
procurement plans were timely developed and implemented in conformity with the Bank’s
guidelines, as agreed between GoN and the Bank in the project agreement.

   xvi. Institutional Strengthening of the Fund Board

During the project period, the Fund Board made significant achievements in institutional
strengthening. Development and operationalization of its web based MIS and a very high quality
FMIS were some concrete achievements toward institutional strengthening of the Fund Board under
RWSSP-II.

The Fund Board produced more than 17 manuals and guidelines related to overall management, and
specific program components including the Financial Audits of Schemes and SOs, technical audit of
the schemes, guidelines for Jagran, Jeevika and other innovations, water quality testing and many
more.

   xvii. Financial Management and Disbursement

The Fund Board maintained a good financial management performance throughout the project
period. The Fund Board developed and established a high quality robust and efficient FMIS and
made effective use of it in producing quality and timely Financial Management Reports (FMRs)
satisfactory to the Auditors General's office. The overall performance and quality of financial
management of the Fund Board was highly appreciated by the implementation monitoring review of
the World Bank on several occasions. FMRs of high professional quality were submitted to the
World Bank and concerned ministries on schedule. The Fund Board has been proactive and timely
in terms of getting reimbursement of the used funds from the Bank, there are no pending
reimbursement of this project to be received by GoN except for the last trimester. At the scheme
level, the SO accounts and Joint Bank accounts of WSUCs are audited by the Fund Board through
external independent auditors.

GoN has committed about US$ 7 million for the implementation of ongoing schemes of Batch 9
during the FY 2012/13. Community contribution requirement of the minimum 11.5% of the total
project cost (cash and kind) increased by 54% resulting in a 19% contribution of the total project
cost. The estimated GoN contribution (including funds substituted for the DFID commitment of
US$ 5 million) was 18%. If, this figure is compounded with GoN’s additional allocation for Batch 9
schemes (US$ 7 million), the overall contribution of GoN was about 19%. This status of co-
financing indicated the higher level of commitment of GoN as well as the communities for RWSS
services.

Challenges and Implementation Problems
During the project period, the Fund Board has faced several challenges and problems in the
implementation of the schemes, such as:

      Because of the community ownership and community led implementation modality, the
       project did not face any major disturbance during the insurgency; however challenges and
       problems caused mainly by the macro political environment were inevitable in the context of
       this project. The frequent Bandh (General Strike) and other political instability have affected
       the transportation of non-local materials resulting into delayed completion of several
       schemes.

                                               44
      Because of the lack of clarity regarding the permanent status of the Fund Board and absence
       of continued financing after the project closure, the Fund Board was not able to undertake
       Batch-X as stipulated.
      Frequent changes and the long time taken to fill vacant board member positions created some
       delay in the scheme selection process.
      Finding and mobilizing SAs for quality and timely technical monitoring of the schemes was
       a challenge for the project. The SAs faced difficulty to mobilize and maintain a large number
       of technical staff available on demand under longer-term commitments without full time
       engagement in project work. Due to this problem, the Fund Board has occasionally faced
       difficulty in conducting the monitoring of the schemes in time and obtaining quality reports
       resulting in operational delays in the scheme cycle.

Key Lessons Learned
Project implementation was a continuous learning process, which resulted in improvements and
innovations. The Fund Board has derived significant lessons from the implementation of RWSSP-II.
Some of them are mentioned bellow:

      The higher level of community ownership makes the schemes sustainable and functional for
       a longer period. Studies revealed that over 96% of the schemes were functioning very well
       without requiring any substantial repair and maintenance.
      The social mobilization for awareness and capacity building (on water and sanitation,
       scheme management, accounting, economic empowerment of women, health and hygiene at
       household level, social accountability, repair and maintenance of schemes etc..) were highly
       valued by the communities as key factors for higher level of achievements and better
       sustainability and functionality of the schemes.
      Social mobilization and capacity building components has added value to the scheme cycle
       and contributed to effective operation and sustainability of the schemes, especially in
       sanitation, economic empowerment, and social accountability.
      The ground reality and the experiences with facts and figures show that the Board’s schemes
       are much more efficient (cost wise, time wise, and quality wise) when established
       professional SOs having good track records are mobilized. The Fund Board realized the need
       to conduct a detailed effectiveness study' of the SOs, develop SO selection parameters and
       provide feedback.
      The involvement of local bodies (VDC/DDC/Municipalities) play a very effective role in
       resolving community level conflicts related to water source and other disputes in many cases.
       There were instances in a number of schemes where the local bodies provided substantial
       resources on top of the community contributions. Together with Fund Board’s contribution,
       schemes of larger coverage and high costs were thus possible. The lesson from this situation
       is that 'higher coordination with local bodies (without compromising on governance aspects
       and quality and sustainability of schemes) can lead to higher cooperation and contributions
       to the scheme and higher level of ‘accountability’.
      With the increasing purchasing capacity and income of people in local communities resulting
       from various income generation activities and foreign employment, increased level of
       awareness and exposure; the trend of demanding higher level of RWSS services has
       increased. People are willing to contribute additional funds for higher level of services (yard
       connection).
      The current phase wise contracting model for SOs creates too much administrative work for
       the Fund Board's professional team. The rigid length of the scheme cycle may not fit well
       with to the varying degrees of awareness, empowerment and organization among different
       communities of the country. There are cases of early completion of different phases in
       number of schemes and there are cases of extreme delay in the completion.
                                               45
Key issues and the Way Forward

      Availability of the rest of the funds to the Fund Board to complete the ongoing IX batch
       schemes depends largely on the budget release situation of the country, despite the
       commitment of GoN to provide the required funds.
      There is growing demand for innovative programs (Jeevika Karyakram including remittance
       and life insurance, Jagran Karyakram/Social Accountability and Scheme Insurance) that are
       currently being piloted. These programs have positive impacts on the functionality and
       sustainability of the schemes and on poverty reduction in the community. Therefore, the
       Fund Board needs to consolidate the learning on these programs and mainstream them in the
       program modality as regular components. However, because of the uncertainty on
       availability of funds from other donors or from GoN sources, it is a real issue for the Fund
       Board to prepare and implement its rolling work plan.
      Because of the political situation and absence of the Parliament, the draft bill to make the
       Fund Board as a permanent regular sector institution did not materialize and this remains as a
       critical issue for the Fund Board.
      Considering the financing gap in the RWSS sector to meet the MDG 2015 and National
       Target of full coverage by 2017 mobilizing additional donor funding in the sector remains a
       key issue.
      The RWSSP-II implementation experience has helped the Fund Board to identify areas of
       improvements for increased efficiency and effectiveness, such as: i) improvements in SO
       selection and mobilization process; ii) reviewing, revising and redesigning the M&E system
       for timely and quality monitoring of the scheme implementation work; iii) developing
       mechanisms to promote the involvement of local bodies like DDCs and VDCs in the process
       more intensively and effectively; and iv) reviewing and revising its management process to
       make it more time efficient and effective.
      The Fund Board needs to design and conduct thematic studies on several aspects of its
       operation (SO effectiveness, community procurement effectiveness, lessons from RWSSP-II
       etc.).




                                               46
Annex 8: Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                          Not Applicable




                               47
                       Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document (April 28, 2004)
2. Development Credit Agreement between Kingdom of Nepal and International Development
   Association (September 14, 2004)
3. Environmental Assessment (January 01, 2003)
4. Indigenous People Plan (December 12, 2002)
5. Financing Agreement for Additional Financing Grant (August 26, 2008)
6. Project Agreement for Additional Financing Grant (August 26, 2008)
7. Supervision and Mission Reports (Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Reports)




                                          48
        Annex 10: Additional Indicators Illustrating the Project’s Achievements


                                         Original Target    Formally      Actual Value
Outcome                                   Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                     Baseline Value
Indicators                                  approval         Target      Completion or
                                           documents)        Values       Target Years
                Percentage population with access to improved water supply in project
Indicator 1:
                areas
Value
(quantitative or               -                    100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
Comments
                 Target achieved. By design, participating communities extended improved
(incl. %
                 water supply to all households in the project area, achieving full coverage.
Achievement)
                 Percentage WSUCs reporting post-implementation status (repairs; O&M
Indicator 2 :
                 fund collections; frequency of WSUC meetings)
Value
(quantitative or        Not specified           Not specified     Not specified         94%
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009       08/31/2012         08/31/2012
Comments
                 Target substantially achieved. The reporting was introduced from Batch V.
(incl. %
                 Available data is for Batch V only. Data for other batches is under collection.
Achievement)
Indicator 3 : Percentage schemes functioning without major repairs for 3 to 5 years
Value                                                                  All      96% (Batch V long
(quantitative or         Not specified          Not specified     Completed term sustainability
Qualitative)                                                       schemes             study)
Date achieved             04/20/2004             08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                 Target substantially achieved. The Fund Board conducts a short-term
                 sustainability study of completed schemes 3-5 years after completion , and a
Comments         long-term sustainability study of completed schemes 5-7 years after completion.
(incl. %         To date, a short term sustainability study has been carried out for Batch V
Achievement) schemes. The study has indicated an overall sustainability of 96% of the Batch V
                 schemes. The short term sustainability study for Batch VI schemes is currently
                 ongoing.
                 Number of toilets constructed with own funds, outside the sanitation
Indicator 4 :
                 revolving loan program
Value
(quantitative or               -                Not specified                          72,080
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                 Significant achievement. Communities were expected to achieve 50% coverage
Comments         at the end of the project and 100% percent coverage in the long-term using the
(incl. %         SRLF grant allocation and self-help construction. The total number of latrines
Achievement) constructed was 137,536, of which 72,080 with own funds.

                Number of women’s groups (WTSS) forming savings and credit societies to
Indicator 5:
                pursue economic activities

                                               49
Value                                            New indicator.
(quantitative or             -                    One in each                           2,885
Qualitative)                                   scheme expected
Date achieved             04/20/2004              08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
                 Significant Achievement. The WTSSS groups have 967, 280 women members.
                 The monthly savings of these groups are in the range of NRs 5-60 per month. It
                 is roughly estimated that the group members collect more than NRs. 10 million
Comments
                 per year; and the total outstanding savings mobilized during the project period
(incl. %
                 are estimated at NRs. 80 million. This local capital mobilized by the WTSS
Achievement)
                 members (with the additional one time grant of NRs 10,000 per scheme provided
                 by the Fund Board as seed money) has been used as a loan fund to support local
                 economic activities.
                 Percentage increase in the income of women engaging in economic activities
Indicator 6:
                 with time saved
Value
                                                 New indicator.
(quantitative or               -                                                        24%
                                                  No target set
Qualitative)
Date achieved             04/20/2004              08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
                 Empowerment of women and economic development achieved. Using credit
Comments         facilities from the credit and savings groups under the WTSS, women engaged in
(incl. %         small-scale economic, primarily to raise goats. The objective of the pilot Jeevika
Achievement) program was to introduce the WTSS groups to commercial credit facilities, to
                 further expand economic activities.
Indicator 7:      Fund Board exercises its autonomy
                                                                               Formation Order
                                             Legal permanent
                                                                             revised to incorporate
Value               Fund Board operates status conferred
                                                                               the key elements
(quantitative or     under a Formation        to Fund Board
                                                                            included in the Bill (in
Qualitative)                Order           through an act of
                                                                                 the absence of
                                                Parliament
                                                                                  Parliament)
Date achieved            04/20/2004             08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
                  Target substantially achieved. Government developed the draft Act for
                  approval by the Parliament, and tabled it twice as it committed to do at the
                  appraisal, but the Parliament was dissolved before it could be approved. As an
Comments          interim measure, the Cabinet has approved a revised Formation Order to
(incl. %          incorporate the key elements included in the Bill. The interim measure has
Achievement) produced the intended results of allowing the Fund Board more operational
                  autonomy. The ICR review noted that the formulation of the target was
                  incorrect given that approval by the Parliament was beyond the control of the
                  Government.
                  Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the
Indicator 8:
                  project
Value
(quantitative or        Not specified             24,000                             29,482
Qualitative)
Date achieved            04/20/2004             08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
Comments          Achieved, and exceeded target. The number of improved community water
(incl. %          points was 122.84% of the original target In five schemes all households opted
                  for individual yard connections.
Indicator 9:      New piped household water connections that are resulting from project

                                                50
                   interventions
Value
                                            Not planned at
(quantitative or             -                                                        1,389
                                              appraisal
Qualitative)
Date achieved             04/20/2004            08/31/2009                           08/31/2012
                   Large number of households opted for higher level of service. 1,389
Comments           household connections were made under the project through individual yard tap
(incl. %           stands. The Fund Board financing was limited to the cost of the basic service.
Achievement) Households choosing individual yard tap connection financed all incremental
                   costs.
Indicator 10: Number of other water service providers that the project is supporting
Value
 (quantitative or                -                  2,009                               1,955
Qualitative)
Date achieved              04/20/2004            08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
Comments
                   Target substantially achieved. The Fund Board supported the WSUCs as the
(incl. %
                   water service providers to the communities.
Achievement)
Indicator 11: Number of schemes participating in the insurance pilot
Value
(quantitative or                 -                                                         36
Qualitative)
Date achieved              04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                  Innovative pilot successfully launched. This initiative was launched in 2010
Comments
                  as a pilot, to encourage communities to cover risks to the assets created, and is
(incl. %
                  likely to grow with time. One insurance company has agreed to cover risks of
Achievement)
                  landslides, earthquakes and floods in 36 schemes.
Indicator 12: Number of Jagran Committees formed
Value
                                               New indicator. No
(quantitative or                 -
                                                    target set
Qualitative)
Date achieved              04/20/2004              08/31/2009                          08/31/2012
                  Innovative pilot successfully launched. This initiative was launched in 2010 as
Comments          a pilot, with the objective to establish local third party monitoring mechanisms
(incl. %          to assure social accountability at the scheme level in order to enhance
Achievement) ownership, transparency, governance and beneficiary satisfaction. Altogether
                  300 committees were formed (250 in Batch VII and 50 in Batch VIII)
Indicator 13: Number of financial audits of the schemes completed
                                                                                   259 SO audits; and
Value
                                                                                   346 scheme audits
(quantitative or                 -                No target set
                                                                                        (ongoing)
Qualitative)
Date achieved        04/20/2004              08/31/2009                         08/31/2012
             Financial accountability at community level achieved. Financial audits of
Comments     scheme accounts were conducted after scheme completion, by independent
(incl. %     external registered auditors, on a rolling basis as schemes were completed.
Achievement) Financial audits of some older schemes were delayed. Audits were ongoing at
             project closure.



                                                 51
                                 80°E                                                                      82°E                                                                                                                          86°E                                                          88°E
                                                                                                                                                                               84°E




                                                                       To
                                                                      Barga


                                                                                                 Simikot
                 30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEPAL
                                  To
                                Ranikhet                        L¯I
                                                     ¯i
                                                  ¯ al

                                                           ak
                                                    KA

                                                      ah
                                                  M
                                                                                                            H                                                                                   CHINA
                                                 HA



                                                                              Chainpur
                                        Baitadi
                                                                                                                       ¯ L¯
                                                                                                                   KARNA  I
                                              MA




                                                                         S E T¯
                                                                              I
                                                                       Silgadhi
                                                                                                                              i
                                            Dandeldhura
                                                      ¯                                                               Jumla

                                                                                   Ka
                                                                                     rn
                                                                                       ali
                                                                                                                                               m                      Mustan




                                                                                                                                                                      IR¯
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                               Dunai

                                                                                                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                               B H E R¯
                                                                                                      I                                                                   Jomsom




                                                                                                                                                              LA
                                                           Dhangarhi              Birendranagar
                                                                                                                                                                            l




                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                                            G A N D A K¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To




                                                                                                                                                        AW
                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                               Xegar
                                                                                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                               Sallyan




                                                                                                                                                              K al
                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                         Baglung




                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                Pokhara
                                                                                                           Tulsipur                                                                                     y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mt. Everest
                 28°N                                                                          Nepalganj                ¯ P T¯
                                                                                                                       RA    I                                                                                           a                                                  (8848 m)                                     28°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kodan
                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯ G M A T¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                            BA        I
                       To                         Lucknow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯T H ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                  Shahajahanpur                                                                                                                                                                       Nuwakot
                                                                                                                                                       L U M B I N¯
                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                   KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                                               Butawal                    ani          Lalitpur
                                                                                                                                                                                   N   ary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RMA
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                To
                                                                                             Faizabad
                                                                                                                                                   Bhairawa                                                        Bhimphedi                                                      Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M E C H¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Taplejun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K O S¯
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                      Okhaldhunga
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hetauda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                  To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAGA
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                      ¯ ¯YANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAYANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAY  ¯                 Sindhulimadi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ramechhap                                                               Saidpur


                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                       Faizabad                                                           Birganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JANAKPUR                                                   Dhankuta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sun Ko                        Ilam
                                     NEPAL
                                                                Lucknow
                                                                                                                                                                           To                                          Gaur                                                               Dharan
                                                                                                                                                                        Faizabad
                                                                                                                                       INDIA                                                                                             Janakpur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rajbiraj
                                       Kanpur
                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Biratnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                      ZONE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                             Baruni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                            Faizabad                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni
                                      RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26°N
                                                                                                   26°N
                                      MAIN ROADS                                                               0      25          50      75       100 Kilometers

                                      RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                               0           25              50            75 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33455
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jangipur
                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                        82°E                                                                84°E                                                            86°E                                                              88°E
