                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          Report No: 31493-PY




                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ON A

                                       PROPOSED LOAN

                           INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$7.5 MILLION

                                            TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                             FOR A

             MODERNIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE PROJECT


                                          March7,2005




Poverty Reduction andEconomic Management Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay Country Management Unit
LatinAmerica and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange RateEffectiveFebruary28,2005)


              Currency Unit = Guarani G/.
                       US$1 = G/. 6,275

                       FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1    - December31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA         Analytical and Advisory Activities
AD          Administrative Directorate
ADR         Alternative Dispute ResolutionMechanisms
BNF         Banco Nacional de Foment0 (National Development Bank)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA        Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGR         Comptroller General
CISNI       NationalIntegrity Council
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI         Consumer Price Index
DGCP        Directorate General of Public Procurement
ERL         Economic Recovery Loan
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FTAL        Financial Technical Assistance Loan
GOP         Government of Paraguay
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
IDA         InternationalDevelopment Association
IDF         InstitutionalDevelopment Fund
IGR         Institutionaland GovernanceReview
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IPS         Instituto de Previsio'n Social - (Social Security Institute)
M&E         MonitoringandEvaluation
MDGs        MillenniumDevelopment Goals
MMFP        Modernizationof the Ministry of Finance
MoF         Ministry of Finance
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NSPA        National Secretariatof Public Administration
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PERL        Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan
PHRD         Japan Policy and HumanResourcesDevelopment Fund

                                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




  PNI                     NationalIntegrity Plan
  PRSP                    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
  SAL                     Structural Adjustment Loan
  SBA                     Standby-Arrangement
  SIAF                    IntegratedFinancial Management System
  SIC0                    Government Accounting System
  SIGADE                  Sistemade Gestidn y Andlisis de la Deuda -NacionalDebt
                          Management Analysis System)
  SINARH                  NationalHumanResourcesSystem
  MMFP                    Modernization of the Ministry of Finance Project
  UAN                     BusinessEnvironment Unit
  UCIP                    Unidad de Coordinacidn de Znversidn Pdblica - (National Office
                          for Public Investment)
  UTPC                    Transparency and CitizenParticipationUnit
  UD                      Decentralization Unit
  UNDP                    UnitedNations Development Program
  WBI                     World BankDevelopment Institute


                           Vice President:      PamelaCox
                Country ManagerDirector:        Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Director:     Ernest0May
                          Sector Manager:       RonaldE.Myers
                       Task Team Leader:        Roberto0.Panzardi




This document has a restricteddistribution and may beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bailk authorization.


                                                       PARAGUAY
             Paraguay Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance Project
                               .

                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                    Page

A.STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                             ..................................................................      1

1 Country andsectorissues
.                                       .....................................................................................................         1

2.Rationale for Bank involvement and supporting Bank Activities                                                 ...................................  10

3.Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes                                       .................................................    12

B PROJECT DESCRIPTION
 .                                          ................................................................................................         12

1 Lendinginstrument
 .                            .............................................................................................................          12

2.Project development objective and key indicators                                  ...........................................................      13

3.Project components          .............................................................................................................          14

4.Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design                                    .........................................................     18

5.Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                                 ...........................................................      19

C.IMPLEMENTATION                  .........................................................................................................          20

1 Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)
 .                                                                   .........................................................................       20

2. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                 ..............................................................      20

3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results                                ................................................................      21

4. Sustainability  ........................................................................................................................          21

5. Criticalrisks and possiblecontroversial aspects                               ..............................................................      22

6. Loadcreditconditions and covenants                          ...............................................................................       22

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                                        ..................................................................................................         23

1 Economicandfinancialanalyses
 .                                                   ........................................................................................        23

2. Technical. ..............................................................................................................................         23

3. Fiduciary ...............................................................................................................................         23

4
.  Social .....................................................................................................................................         23

5
.  Environment       .........................................................................................................................          24

6
.  Safeguardpolicies           ................................................................................................................         24

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness                        ........................................................................................       24



Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                           ..........................................................    25

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                                 ..................27
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                                .........................................................................      28

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                      ......................................................................................       36

Annex 5: Project Costs         ................................................................................................................         53

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                            ..................................................................................       54

Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements                                                         ......................................  57

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                          .......................................................................................        63

Annex 9: Economicand Financial Analysis                             ..............................................................................       67

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues                     .............................................................................................        72

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                           ..................................................................................       74

Annex 14: Statement of Loansand Credits                            ...............................................................................       76

Annex 14: Statement of Loansand Credits                            ...............................................................................       77

Annex 15: Country at a Glance                 ..................................................................................................         78

Annex 16: Map IBRD33464                  .......................................................................................................         78

                                      PARAGUAY

           PARAGUAY- MODERNIZATIONOFTHEMINISTRY OF FINANCE

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                          LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSPS

Date: March7,2005                          Team Leader: Roberto 0.Panzardi
Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg     Sectors: Central government administration
Sector Managermirector: Ernest0 May        (80%);General finance sector (20%)
                                           Themes: Public expenditure, financial
                                           management and procurement (P);Other
                                           accountability/anti-corruption (S);Standards
                                           andfinancial reporting (S)
Project ID: PO87036                        Environmental screening category: Not
                                           Required
LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance    Safeguardscreeningcategory:
Loan




For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 7.50




Total:                                        4.34               3.96              8.30

Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Pte. Franco 173c/NSA
Edif.Yvaga - Piso 7
Asuncih,Paraguay
Tel: (59521) 440 010
Responsible Agency:
Ministeriode Hacienda
Paraguay
Pedro Espinola
pespinola@hacienda.gov.py

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref. PAD A.3                                                                                    No
Does the project require any exceptionsfrom Bankpolicies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Havethese been approved by Bank management?                                         [ ]Yes [ IN0
[s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
-Ref- -PAD - - .
 --                                                                                 [XIYes [ ] N o
       - --D.7
Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The project development objective i s to support the Ministry of Finance'sefforts to improve
fiscal sustainability and quality of public expenditures, by focusing on the Ministry's strategic
definitions and objectives and strengthening core products and increasingefficiency,
effectiveness and transparency of its internal administrative and financial management systems,
to become a Ministry of Excellence and serve as a model for overall government reform.

Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component 1- Improvement of Core Products ($3.27 million) will focus on substantive
technical reforms within the Ministry of Finance, i.e. on the key core functions the Ministry
should effectively andefficiently complete inorder fulfill its role as a key actor inthe country's
economic development and planning efforts. The component would, therefore, support the
improvement of fiscal andeconomic planningfor policy formulation, implementation and
monitoring.

Component 2 - Business Processes Reengineering and InformationManagement ($3.27 million)
will focus on the improvement of the institutionaland systemic issues of processes, organization
andcross-support.

Component 3 - Transparency, Civil Society Participation andCo Communications ($0.86
mil1ion)would support transparency, civil society monitoring and evaluation, andundertaking a
communications program.

Component 4 - Project Management ($0.86 million) would support implementation of the
Project through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministryof Finance (MOF).
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.4, TechnicalAnnex 10
N/A (Category c-project)

Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
n/a
Loadcredit effectiveness:
Conditions precedentfor effectiveness for the project are the following: (a) the OperationalManual
has been approved by the Borrower; (b) an annual program (acceptableto the Bank) for the calendar year
2005 as referredto in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement has beenfurnished to the Bank; and(c) a
procurement advisor has beenhired by the Borrower as providedin Section 3.05 (b) (ii)(B) of this
Agreement.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
n/a


A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

The administration of President Nicanor Duarte Frutos has shown a strong commitment to
macroeconomic and fiscal stability and has already established a good economic track record.
With the Bank's assistance, the administration has also been able to implement pilots aimed at
producing rapid results in the areas of result-informed budgeting, organizational planning and
basic infrastructure modernization. The Ministry of Finance i s fully aware of the importance of
developing sustainable institutions for fiscal policy-making and implementation -including
greater efficiency in public expenditure-        and is committed to advancing those reforms that can
be realistically implemented over the next few years. This Project seeks to capitalize on this
window of opportunity to strengthenParaguay's capacity for macro-economic management both
for the present and future administrations. The government has already identified the core
strategic products that a ministry of finance needs to regularly deliver and be held accountable
for and i s prepared to take the neededadministrative measures to institutionalize procedures and
strengthen capacity to regularly deliver those key products in accordance with relevant
international standards for quality.

Like any other government organization, management of Paraguay's Ministry of Finance i s
largely determined by laws, structures, procedures, technology and human resources. The
Ministry operates within the country's current political and administrative environment, and
works within an organizational culture that i s the result of decades of relative neglect for
institutional development. While this Project recognizes that the Ministry does not operate in
isolation of the rest of government, it will focus narrowly on select Ministerial functions. The
Project Team has taken into account other projects and government actions which will focus on
reforms of other features of the Ministry of Finance (such as the reorganization of the Minister's
cabinet, which the Bank i s currently supporting) or the overall government's enabling
environment, including administrative modernization and civil service reform. This Project i s
focused on the procedures, technology and human resources needed to ensure the sustainable
delivery of the Ministry of Finance's core products. It is expected that a successful reform, i.e.
one that enables the Ministry to meet its core mandate, will stimulate a more comprehensive
structural reorganization of the Ministry and may also serve as a precedent for reform of other
government agencies, If the Project i s successfully implemented, the Ministry of Finance will be
in a position to make other critical decision regarding monitor, and enforce implementation of
the country's short and medium term fiscal policies and advance towards results-informed
budgeting. Subsequent reforms may then build upon this Project's achievements to identify,
motivate and adopt other reforms needed to make the Ministry of Finance an efficient and well-
oiled machine.

1. Countryandsectorissues

A.      Introduction,

Paraguay i s a land-locked country with a small, open economy that i s highly concentrated inthe
agricultural sector (cotton, cattle, timber, and recently, soybeans) with an estimated GDP of US$
6.6 billion (2004). With a per capita income of about US$ 1,100,l it is one of the poorest

 GrossNational Income per capita for 2003, Atlas method.


                                                      1

countries in the region. The country's main trading partners are its immediate neighbors, Brazil
and Argentina, and its chief source of labor income is the agricultural sector where cotton and
soybeans are its primary commodities. This limited diversification, coupled with weak capacity
in economic management, have increased Paraguay's vulnerability to external shocks and
climate conditions needed for agriculture. More recently the economic crises in Argentina and
Brazil and their respective exchange devaluations have contributed to Paraguay's downward
economic spiral.

Although economic management was gradualist and fairly prudent in the years immediately
following the end of the military dictatorship in 1989 -with      balanced fiscal accounts, small
current account deficits and declining inflation-        growth performance was disappointing.
Protracted slow growth reflected a decline intotal factor productivity associatedwith a shrinking
investment ratio, slow progress with structural reform, growing fiscal deficits through 2003, and
widespread corruption.

Poor policy performance was exacerbated by a series of external and domestic events. Major
banking crises in 1995 and in 1997-98 led to the closure of a number of domestic banks, the
reduction of credit to the private sector, and a sharp drop inprivate investment. Paraguay's terms
of trade deteriorated significantly after the mid-1990s andthe country suffered droughts in 1999,
2000 and 2002. The economy was also battered by adverse developments in its main trading
partners, namely the Brazilian devaluation of 1999 and the recession and financial turmoil in
Argentina in2001-2002.

The combination of external vulnerability and a poor policy environment resulted in
exceptionally poor growth performance, particularly between the mid-1990s and 2002. While
GDP growth averaged 1 percent per year, annual population growth remained steady at 2.5
percent. The outcome has been a secular decline in per capita GDP to pre-1990 levels. Poverty
was estimated at 41 percent in2003, with 20 percent of the population livinginextreme poverty.
Poverty i s concentrated in the rural areas, where half of Paraguay's population lives, and is
exacerbatedby polarized income andlanddistribution.

In2002, worsening economic conditions came to a head as GDP fell by 2.3 percent, leading to
an over 4 percent contraction in per capita income. Inflation rose to double digits, the Guarani
depreciated by nearly 40 percent, and the public sector's fiscal situation deteriorated sharply,
recording a deficit of 3.1 percent of GDP. As a result of the depreciation, public external debt
climbed to nearly 50 percent of GDP from 33 percent a year earlier. Given Paraguay's lack of
access to financing, either internal or in the international capital markets, the fiscal gap was
financed by a combination of delays in public sector salary payments, postponement of public
investment expenditures, the drawing down of deposits at the Central Bank and the accumulation
of arrears to creditors and suppliers. At the end of 2002, arrears on debt service amounted to
almost 3 percent of GDP.

Upon taking office on August 15th 2003, President Nicanor Duarte Frutos' administration
quickly focused on the most critical impediments to sustained economic growth and poverty
reduction in Paraguay and, enjoying substantial political support, has since achieved important
advances ineconomic managementand in its program of economic reforms. The Administration



                                                  2

took immediate action to control expenditures, freeze public sector wages, and implement short-
term revenue measures, including a crackdown on tax evasion. The result has been a much
improved economic performance in 2003 and 2004, with GDP expanding by an estimated 2.6
and 2.9 percent respectively.

InOctober 2003, the President signed aPolitical Agreement with the heads of bothhouses of
Congress and opposition party leadersto pass a series of economic reforms designedto constrain
current expenditures, tackle key fiscal drains on the public accounts, enhance tax and tariff
revenues, and address urgent vulnerabilities of the economy such as those associated with the
financial sector and public enterprises. These bills included an austere budget for 2004, the
renegotiation of domestic debt obligations with commercial banks, a tax reform bill to widen the
tax base and eliminate loopholes and exemptions, laws to strengthen the banking system and
deposit insurance and to reorganize ailing public banks, legislation reforming the government
employees' pension plan - which was the major drain on public finances, a new customs code to
modernize and strengthen the customs administration, and a plan for the restructuring of the
public administration. Of the eight bills included in the Agreement, six have already been
approved by Congress (the 2004 budget law, debt restructuring, deposit insurance and bank
regulations, the government pension law, the tax reform, and the customs code). The
Government also agreed on a 15 month Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) (now extended for six
months) with the WIF, and re-activated its lendingprogram with the Bank.

Alongside fiscal measures to contain spending and increase revenues, the Government has also
embarked on a program of administrative measures to increase transparency and reduce waste
and corruption in the public sector. These have included steps to begin the purging of two state
institutions: the state development bank (BancoNacional de Fomento, BNF) and the state social
security institute (Instituto de Previsidn Social, IPS). The top command in the military and
national police have been replaced and the Government succeeded in the difficult political
challenge of changing two thirds of thejudges sitting on the Supreme Court. The Administration
has also taken actions in the areas of tax and customs administration. A census of public sector
employees was recently completed which, in addition to playing a key role in rationalizing
resources and enhancing the performance of the public sector, is serving to audit employee
records in order to eliminate phantom workers and those illegally collecting more than one
salary. Similarly, the government pension records are being purged, with 1,600 non-justified
pensionseliminated to date.

The Government has made important progress in implementing Paraguay's Procurement Action
Plan following the regulation of the recently approved Public Procurement Law and the
resolution creating the Directorate General of Public Procurement (DGCP). A procurement
portalhas been launched on the Web. At this stage, this website is an informational one which
includes the annual procurement plans for state institutions, available bidding documents, the
bulk of invitations to bid and awards contract, as well as a list of ineligible and black-listed
contractors. This i s seen as the first step in a full-fledged electronic procurement system. In
addition, a public process for the competitive selection of the head and other key staff of the
DGCP has taken place, as have public hearings on the newly designed standard public bidding
documents. Progress on these measures and the increased transparency of public procurement




                                                 3

practices has already led to reductions in spending on goods and services and to more efficient
public investment.

The Government is implementing strategies to continue to improve financial management in
Paraguay. Public sector budgeting and accounting have been transformed and an integrated
financial management system (SIAF)has been implemented inthe central government and some
decentralized agencies. The IDB has been supporting the Government in this effort through
technical cooperation operations. Measures to introduce accrual accounting into the SIAF and to
further expand it to other decentralized agencies were supported under the World Banks
Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan approved inDecember 2003. A peer review of
the Comptroller General's (CGR) audit procedures is underway and an internal audit manual for
the CGR i s being prepared. The Government has announced that it will perform regular,
independent audits of public enterprises which will also be subject to increased data publishing
requirements in order to improve transparency. Five such audits were performed in 2004, of the
electrical power utility, the telecommunications company, the telecommunications corporation,
the urban water and sewage company, andthe social security institute. This i s part of an effort to
improve efficiency and governance in Paraguay's public enterprises which, despite having a
strong presence in key economic activities of the country, have been plagued by inefficient
operations and inadequatefinancial management.

All these initiatives have created a window of opportunity and a momentum for state
modernization in Paraguay. Inparticular, the Ministry of Finance (MoF) has advanced, with the
Bank assistance, inpilot projects aimed at producing rapidresults inthe areas of results-oriented
budgeting, organizational planning and basic infrastructure modernization. Through this Project,
their products andconclusions will be fully implemented within the MoF.

The new Government's economic track record has also been encouraging, and the
Administration has shown strong commitment to macroeconomic and fiscal stability. This has
begun to engender increased confidence by the private sector and has paved the way for
implementing afinancial sector reformprogram.

Finally, recent economic performance improved markedly in 2003 and 2004, with GDP
expanding by an estimated 2.6 and 2.9 percent respectively. The increased growth in 2003 was
the result of a 12 percent expansion in the agriculture sector which, in turn, was the result of
exceptionally highinternational soybeans and cotton prices. Rising agricultural exports bolstered
the Guaraniwhich appreciatedby close to 15 percent with respect to the US dollar over the year.
This enabled inflation to return to single digits and international reserves to rise by 50 percent.
After several years of deficits, tight spending policies and improved tax administration have
resulted in primary surpluses. These trends strengthenedin 2004, as economic growth continued
despite a drought, supported by favorable regional and global conditions. Unlike 2003, growth
was more.balancedacross sectors, with nearly all areas contributing to the economic expansion.
Thanks to a 36 percent rise in tax revenues and to constrained public spending, the central
government achieved an estimated primary surplus of 2.7 percent of GDP. The Guarani
remained stable, depreciating by 5 percent with respect to the U S dollar, and CPIinflation ended
the year at 2.8 percent. Registered exports grew by nearly 30 percent in part due to strong soy
prices and access to new export markets for meat. Imports also expanded by 30 percent in the



                                                 4

same period, reflectingboth the economic recovery and higher petroleum prices. As a result, the
current account surplus declined to 0.7 percent of GDP in 2004, from 2.4 percent in 2003. Net
central bank purchases of foreign exchange have offset upward pressures on the currency from
buoyant export earnings and large private capital inflows, moderating the growth of the money
supply andincreasing international reservesto US$ 1.2 billion at the endof 2004.


                                  Table 1:SelectedFiscalIndicators
                                    (% of GDP, unless otherwise indicated)

                                                       2002       2003         2004e          2005p
        GDP(% growth)                                  -2.3       2.6          2.9            3.2

        Central Gov. Balance                           -2.3       -0.2          1.9           -0.3
        Central Gov. Primary Balance                   -1.7       0.9           2.7           1.0
        Consolidated Public Sector Balance             -3.1       -0.1          2.4           0.2
        Consolidated Public Sector Primary Bal.        -1.3       2.4           3.6           1.7
        Total Public Sector Revenues                   19.3        19.2         21.1          21.6
        Public Sector Primary Expenditures             22.0        18.9         18.9          21.7
        Public Sector External Debt (% o f GDP)        48.4       44.7          39.0          38.1
Source: Ministry o f Finance, IMFand Bank Staff estimates           e = estimate; p = projection



B.Bank's CountryAssistanceStrategy

Reflecting government priorities, the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)2 for Paraguay approved
by the BoardinNovember 2003 proposed a four-pillar strategy, including:


    1   Fiscal andfinancial sector stabilization;

    1
    ..  Improvedgovernance andtransparencyinpublic administration;
        Enhancedand sustained growth, particularly inrural areas where poverty is most
        concentratedanddeepest; and
        Increasedsocial inclusionthrough improvedcoverage andefficiency of basic social
        services to help meet the MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs).

It is inthis context that the Government requestedBank assistance in the form of an Economic
Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL). In December 2003, the Bank's Board approved
the loan, which provided resources to help bridge an estimated US$ 30 million financing gap for
end-2003. The medium-term objectives of the government's program supportedby the SAL are:
(i) economicrecoverythatwouldpavethewayforsustainedhighergrowthrates;(ii)
    solid                                                                                              a
return to positive per capita economic growth; and (iii)              significant poverty reduction. The
Administration also recognizes that weak public sector capacity, corruption, and low levels of
public confidence in public institutions significantly undermines confidence, business
investment, as well as attempts to address fundamental social and economic challenges.



 Report No. 27341-PA. November 26,2003.


                                                       5

The proposed project will support the first two CAS pillars through a program aimed at assisting
the Ministry of Finance to effectively andefficiently deliver its core products. It would do so by
enhancing its analytical capacity and engineering an overhaul of its processes, procedures,
organization and internal controls, as well as through a program to professionalize public
servants. The objective of this transformation i s to enable the Ministry of Finance to establish a
cohesive vision, common objectives and standard, rationalized processes. The program would
enhance the Ministry's transparency and accountability and would institutionalize ongoing
reformefforts beyond this Administration. Strengthening the cohesion of the Ministry of Finance
i s essential to medium term fiscal and financial planning, improved targeting and efficiency of
expenditures, sound policy decisions, and continuous monitoring and adjustment of mainmacro
indicators. Better accounting and reporting practices supported by integrated financial
management, are the sine qua non basis to link revenues, expenditures and debt. Supplementary
reforms will address asset management, procurement, and humanresources management. To this
effect, the Government i s strengtheningthose units that are currently responsible for investment
planning, procurement, and human resources in the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry also
intends to create its own office to promote transparency, access to information, and civil society
participation in monitoring performance. Strengthening the Ministry of Finance i s a necessary
first step to improve fiscal and financial management, reduce corruption, increase transparency,
and encourage civil society involvement in monitoring of results.                     It is also essential to
implement the proposed changespromptly and thoroughly inorder to maintain public support for
the reforms.

The Project would be complemented by a separate project to improve fiscal management
capacity at the municipal level, particularly, through improved application of the land tax
(impuesto inmobiliurio) which i s the main (but vastly underutilized) source of municipal
revenue. Improved management capacity at the municipal level i s a necessary prerequisite for
eventual decentralization of public services, one of the central wishes of the Paraguayanpublic.

C. PublicSector ReformChallenges

Since the end of the Stroessner dictatorship in 1989, Paraguay has been struggling to establish a
progressive and stable political en~ironment.~Such efforts have been impeded by institutional
weaknesses that have contributed to inefficient governance, widespread corruption, and the
expansion of informal practices outside of the legal and normative framework. These
developments are reflected in the continuing low performance of Paraguay in all leading
governance indicators. Paraguay has consistently ranked as one of the ten lowest countries in
Transparency International's Global Corruption Perception Index and receives similar ratings in
the World Bank's six governance indicators. Indeed, the Transparency International Report for
2004 ranked Paraguay 140 out of 143 countries in terms of public perceptions of government
efficiency and corrupt practices. The report sampled Paraguayanagencies andfound that there i s
a general perception that agencies do not achieve their mission in an efficient manner and that
corrupt practices are widespread.




  Followingthe 1999assassination of the Vice-president of Paraguay, the President resigned; the ensuing political
instability resulted inan interim President that remained inoffice for four years.


                                                           6

The new Government quickly began implementing broad-based governance and administrative
reforms and identified corruption, state-capture and lack of transparency as the key areas for
intervention. Paraguayans and the international community immediately supported the
Administration's initial steps, including the following: (i)       the Government made widely-
respected appointments of several independent professionals to important Cabinet positions,
including the Ministers of Finance and Industry; (ii)     all parties in Congress signed a political
agreement (Acuerdo Politico) in which they agreed to pass key pieces of legislation, including a
fiscally responsible budget, tax code, government pension reforms, a modern customs code,
financial sector reforms--including reforms of public banks, and an eventual restructuring of
public enterprises and the central administration; (iii) the Government moved to replace a large
portionof the Supreme Court (which was widely viewed as a source of corruption and impunity),
an action seen as a precondition for renewed investment and the eradication of corruption; and
(iv) the Government called on civil society to become more active in issues of governance and
public administration (inorder to prevent a threat to the continuation of democratic institutions).

Focusing on the Ministry of Finance as a core agency in any reform agenda, the Administration
realized that in addition to the structural imbalance of revenues and expenditures, the capacity
limitations in the Ministry's ability in forecasting fiscal aggregates and taking corrective actions
have created substantial and prolonged primary deficits.         These problems have resulted in
financial crises culminating in the default on national and foreign debt, as well as public service
salaries and pensions. Inadequate tax collection, misallocation of resources, and inadequate
control and oversight of public spending have only aggravated the public's distrust of
government andincrease reservations about public service ingeneral.

D. ChallengesandReformProgramofthe MinistryofFinance

The Ministry of Finance is presently not producing core products and often relies on external
agencies for monitoring, forecasting and policy analysis. It suffers from inadequate technical
and technological capacity. Indeed, in some areas such as accounting, debt management and tax
collection, it has responsibilities that it cannot fulfill at all, such as the registration of
commitments and debts or the facilitation of tax payments. The limited capacity of many units
results in waste, unaccounted expenditures, tax evasion, corruption and rent seeking. The
Ministry i s not organized according to clear reporting and management structures, and units
providing input and support functions to core areas of the budget, treasury, tax and customs
collection, and economic and tax policy design and advice, debt management and investment
planning, do not always report to line units. Accountability i s weak.

This situation has a negative effect on morale and reduces the efficiency of civil servants, as
even the most committed staff cannot change the situation on their own. It also has a negative
effect on the economy. The financial impact of reduced revenues, unaccounted for and
inefficient expenditures, insufficient oversight, an ineffective civil service and unpaid or
overpaid salaries and pensions, combine to create uncertainty in the private sector, undermine
investment and savings, andincreasethe relative size of the informal economy.

Key institutional challenges facing the Ministry of Finance and actions to be taken under the
Project to help address them are as follows:



                                                  7

Fiscal Sustainability and Expenditure Practices: The Project will support reforms to promote
fiscal sustainability and enhance quality of expendituresby facilitating modern, institutionalized
practices including early alerts as well as better forecasting, planningand managementreporting.
The current situation in the Ministry jeopardizes its ability to pursue fiscal sustainability or
quality of expenditure. Regarding fiscal sustainability, the Ministry of Finance does not, as of
yet, have institutionalized practices which can produce early alerts based on revenue forecasting
or emerging unsustainable expenditure pressuresat the time of budget approval or during budget
execution. Therefore, the annual deficit i s larger than it would have been had timely information
and policy options been provided to the Economic Cabinet. Actions to lower revenues consist
essentially in reductions or elimination of investment spending. Recurrent expenditures are
fairly rigid and the government has no menu of tax policies or tax administration reforms from
which to choose, and cash management decisions are not connected with annual expenditure
results. Annual or multi-year budget planning may establish ambitious infrastructure or social
goals, but those goals are unlikely to be achieved if actual budget disbursements remain
disconnected from actual expenditures.          This weakens sector accountability and further
debilitates the credibility of budget results, and is unable to enhance quality of expenditure. The
Ministry also lacks budget performance indicators to propose result-informed indicators to sector
ministries and state corporations nor is it equipped to monitor sector performance.

Budget Procedures: The Project will assist in building the MoF's capacity to improve budget
efficiency, allocation of (intra- and inter-sector) resources and planning, by working with the
MoF to introduce a results-informed budgetprocess, a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
for public expenditures, multi-year program planning, and strategic sector definitions and
government priorities.     The budget classification system currently separates item and line
expenditures, thus eliminating the possibility of result-based monitoring and evaluation. The
budget system is too complex to allow for more than formalistic compliance, while the reporting
system is incomplete, omitting commitments, expenditures, and even some revenues directly
collected by line agencies. This decreases budget control and generates a large floating (short
term arrears) debt. In practice, the Vice Ministry of Financial Management played a role in
controlling major variables in public finances such as in the budget, treasury, and debt policy.
The Vice Minister controlled excess spending through ad hoc adjustment measures often
concentratedon immediate responsesto "crisis situations" but at the cost of insufficient attention
to medium and longer-term planning. Day-to-day oversight has been dominated by cash
management (disbursement) decisions, designing the next year`s budget, fixing limits on
projected spending, negotiating the budget with the sectors and providing pay-as-you go funds
for meetingurgent government commitments.

Accounting Practice: The Project will assist in creating an integrated accounting system, and
provide the tools for recording as well as for monitoring and evaluating accounts. While the
accounting system is largely in place, different models are not interconnected, which creates
gaps inthe accounting flow. Although international accounting rules have been adopted, they are
not being fully implemented. For example, contingent liabilities, floating debt and even the total
public debt, are not registered and reported. As a result proper oversight of expenditures,
evaluation of programs, and allocation of resources are not possible. Currently, it i s also not
possible to verify the legitimacy of expenditures because the accounting system and budget




                                                   8

systems do not match, e.g. line items can be easily changed, amended and eliminated, and
expenditures manipulated.

Oversight and Controls: The Project will contribute to the strengthening of the internal audit
department which lacks sufficient staff, internal controls or the necessary auditing rules,
manuals, equipment and training to carry out its tasks. The internal controls currently in place
are insufficient to eliminate a variety of informalproceduresinevery area of the Ministry. These
informal procedures run counter to the Ministry's formal rules and are often aimed at siphoning
off funds or charging governmental andprivate clients for performance of normalduties.

Information Management: The Project will provide assistanceto buildthe Ministry's capacity
in, and upgrade technology for, adequate information management. It will also improve the
quality of the Ministry's internal budget performance indicators, as well as the structural
organization of the Ministry aligned to modern information systems. The poor quality of data,
information flows and an integrated information system prevent free data flow between units, it
also results inmissinginformationor duplication of data collection. Inaddition to increasedcost,
duplication creates contradictory information due to the different sources and methodologies
used. Inthe absence of a coherent informationsystem, economic forecasting, tax collection, debt
management, cash flow management, budgeting and other core functions cannot be performed
accurately. Performance indicators are either non-existent or are focused on inputs rather than
results.

Organizational Structure: The Project will support the implementation of a new organizational
structure aimed at increasing accountability and transparency in reporting structures, ultimately
enabling the Ministry to carry out its core functions more effectively and efficiently.          Rather
thanexpanding inawell-designed, strategic manner, the organizational structure has grown inan
ad hoc manner, creating duplication of processes, inefficient performance of functions, and
inadequate coordination. Moreover, the organization's hierarchy does not match its functions
and, therefore, reporting is not linked to accountability and supervision. These organizational
weaknesses prevent the efficient performance of functions and adequate coordination between
the Ministry's various units.

Human Resources Base: The Project will provide training for key professionals in selected
units and with selected functions, as well as work with the Ministry to design the necessary
human resourcespolicies. Limited staff capacity i s a major constraint on the Ministry's ability to
carry out its core functions. The Ministry has a staff of 3,760 underpaid, and often unmotivated,
staff. Moreover, these staff are frequently unqualified to hold the positions they do (i.e. they do
not hold the relevant degrees or did not receive adequatetraining) but, because they have tenure,
they are difficult to remove. In addition, the aforementioned organizational problems have
resulted in the improper distribution of personnel throughout the Ministry, with some offices
lacking the number of staff necessary to carry out their functions. The lack of HR management
i s partiallyto blame for this situation, including the lack of training for staff or evaluation of their
performance; yet, the staff needs to be properly trained and allocated in order to perform
administrative and professional functions, such as preparing a multi year budget, monitoring and
evaluation, economic modelingand designingtax policies.




                                                   9

 2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement andsupporting BankActivities

 Bank involvement in this operation i s justified because of the Bank's proven worldwide and
 regional experience in fiscal, budgeting, financial and fiduciary issues, professionalization, and
 anti-corruption mechanisms. In particular, the Bank has accumulated expertise in the
 modernization of ministries of finance, and transformation of fiscal and financial management,
 including in LAC countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Peru and Colombia. The
 Bank's involvement i s also justified due to its long-standing and consistent technical assistance,
 advice and growing presence in Paraguay's governance and institutional issues. Finally, the
 Bank's involvement in supporting the modernization of the Ministry of Finance is warranted
 because it i s the development partner best able to accelerate public sector reform in Paraguay.
 The Project is crucial to improve the Ministry's accounting and budgeting practices as well as to
 enhance the effectiveness of public services delivery, and to get the commitment of other higher
 officials throughout the government to reform.

 The Bank first became significantly involvedin governancein 1996 when it prepared a report on
 the "Role of the State,"4 which clearly identified Paraguayan institutions as having highly
 developed the art of rent seeking. The report found that the basis of this rent seeking behavior
 could be traced to patronagepolitics where parties "nominate" faithful party members to public
 institutions. Moreover, the report statedthat this system significantly contributes to maintaining a
 working majority of votes for the party among the general population, and creates a strong
 incentive against "reform of the state,'' particularly the privatization of public enterprises.             The
 report also found that while public entities do not dominate the economy, they nevertheless
 occupy important segments of it, including electricity, telephone, water, cement and oil import
 companies as well as the social security (pension and health) system and the national university.
 Besidesemployment, which comprises approximately one-quarter of the total inthe public sector
 expenditures, these entities provide opportunities for corruption through the widespread abuse of
 public procurement, false billing andpoor internal controls.

 In 1999, the World Bank Institute providedtechnical assistanceto fight corruption in Paraguay
 and recommended the creation of an Anti-Corruption Commission. The Commission was
 consequently created, and was comprised of an equal number of government and civil society
 representatives.6Based on the results of a WBI public opinion survey, the Commission decided
 to concentrate on three areas: customs, the judiciary and public procurement. The Commission
 developed a program of institutionalreforms for each area during 2000 and, following a period
 of public consultation, hasbeen actively promotingthe adoption of these reforms ever since. To-
 date the main achievement of the Commission has been raising awareness within Government
 and the public at large both that concrete steps can be taken to reduce the institutional
 opportunities for corruption and that a new procurement law has been approved by Conbress.
 The Commission, known as the National Integrity Council (CISNI), has become an important


- Paraguay -Role of the State,Report No. 15044-PA,April 1996.
  There are approximately 220,000 public sector employeesina working population of approximately 1million.

  "Diagnostico sobre 10s Patrones de Comportamientoy DesempeiioInstitucional, Gobernabilidad y Corrupcidn en
 el Sector Pdblico del Paraguay." This diagnostic was a key instrument usedto buildthe National Strategyto Fight
 Corruption inParaguay.


                                                        10

agent for change that i s monitoring and pressing for improved public policies and practices to
reducecorruption.

In2002, the Bank approved two IDF grants for Paraguay. The first supports Civil Service
reform as Paraguay still lacks a modern humanresourcesmanagement system. There are nojob
descriptions, grade-related salary structure, performance evaluations, or systematic training
programs in place. The Grant also supports the National Secretariat of Public Administration
(NSPA) inrationalizingits functions inorder to implement a modern public sector employment
scheme and to enhance its capacity to enforce the Public Employment Law. Currently, the Grant
i s helping to carry out a national public employee census, training seminars and workshops,
information sharing, and studies that will develop measures to increase institutional capacity to
implement human resources strategies. The second IDF Grant supports Paraguay's Supreme
Court and Council of Magistrates in order to strengthentheir ability to supervise and implement
plannedjudicial service delivery. Specifically, it is designedto: (i)      strengthenjudicial functions,
including activities to improve judicial selection and enhancethe adoption of Alternative Dispute
Resolution (ADR) mechanisms; (ii)        improve system administration especially as regards the
training of administrative staff; (iii)  improve judicial governance capacity to assist the Court
develop tools and plans for a more effective oversight of systemperformance, and to incorporate
other public and private actors inthe reformefforts; and (iv) strengthenpublic registries.

In June 2003, the Bank prepared Policy Notes which were discussed with the Duarte
Administration.    Two core themes running through the Policy Notes were corruption and
institutional weakness in Paraguay. A number of the priority actions emerging from the Policy
Notes discussion are supportedby the proposedloan.

In May 2004, the Bank obtained a PHRD grant to assist in the preparation of this Project to
strengthen the Ministry of Finance. PHRD funded activities include: (i)          technical assistance to
improve the financial management system and implement result-oriented budgeting; (ii)           carrying
out an in-depth analysis of current organizational structure and functions; (iii)             designing
mechanisms to allow civil society groups to monitor progress made by the Ministry of Finance;
and (iv) analyzing government control and human resources systems and procedures, and their
impact on the Ministry of Finance. Some of these activities have been completed and have
provided substantial inputs for Project preparation. Other activities are more focused on detailed
identification of the reformprogram relatedto the Ministry's specific processes, structures, IT or
human resources. An example of the latter is the ongoing pilot activity to review the existing
budget methodology and a result-oriented budgeting system piloted in 5 agencies. Incontrast to
the experience with other activities in Paraguay, the PHRD for the MMFP Project has been
implemented quickly andthe grant i s expectedto be fully committedby end- March 2005.

In addition, the Bank has completed a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)7 and a
Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA). Inboth cases, time-bound actions plans
have been agreedto with the Government and would be supported by this Project.

An Institutionaland Governance Review (IGR) is beingprepared inparallel with this Project to
analyze obstacles to governance reform including institutional and political economy constraints

  ReportNo. 25908. Evaluacidn del Sistemade Contratacidn Pliblica. January 2003.


                                                   11

on efforts to reduce corruption and improve the quality of public sector performance. The IGR's
main findings have been incorporated into the Project design, particularly the recommendations
regarding the improvement of the Ministry of Finance's core functions, internal operations
(human resources, control and information systems, etc.), and activities conditioning its
performance (routine interactions with other private andgovernmental actors).

The Bank i s also preparing complementary lending instruments to support policy and
institutional reform in the financial sector. A programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FSAL) will support actions taken to improve the regulatory framework in the banking sector
and a reform program for the public banks has been prepared in parallel with the MMFP. A
Financial Technical Assistance Loan (FTAL) will support institutional strengthening of the
bankingsuperintendency within the CentralBankof Paraguay.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

The Project's higher-level objective i s to support the achievement of the MOF's mission, i.e.,
ensuringmacroeconomic stability, fiscal sustainability and economic growth, and enhancing the
quality of public expenditure. To this end, the Project will specifically contribute to improve core
functions such as fiscal planning, budget reform and expenditure evaluation, tax policy and
administration, debt management and analytical capacity. It will also contribute to the
improvement of the efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of those internal administrative
and financial management systems that are necessary for the Ministry's core products. Thus, the
Project will reform and strengthen the MoF making it a model for strategically approaching
overall governance reform in Paraguay. As a result of the Project, measurable improvements
should be achieved, including administrative and substantive reforms which ensure the design
and management of key macro- and microeconomic policies, improved tax policies and
collection, introduction of budget practices aimed at providing quality based allocations and
improved expenditures in social sectors and public sector delivery, a reduction in long-standing
corrupt practices, increasedcitizen access of informationand increasedcivil society involvement
inthe planningandmonitoringof results.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

As indicated above, the second pillar of the Bank's Country Assistances Strategy for FY04-07
aims to assist the Government in improving governance and transparency in public
administration. To support this CAS pillar, it was agreed that the Bank would provide support
through a series of technical assistance loans and grants. The first technical assistance loan
would target improved management practices and service delivery within this key line ministry.
Successful reform of the MoF would serve as a starting point for a deeper process of public
sector reform. At a later stage, this Project will be complemented by another technical assistance
project to improve fiscal management capacity at the municipal level. The use of a technical
assistance projects in Paraguay in the area of governance have been identified as the most
practical tool to build on existing diagnostics, i.e. the IGR and Transparency International




                                                  12

Report, complement the adjustment operations, develop local capacity for expansion of these
reforms more broadly ingovernment, and thus support the Bank's overall assistance strategy.

2. Project developmentobjectiveandkey indicators

The Proiect development obiective is to support the Ministry of Finance's efforts to improve
fiscal sustainability and quality of public expenditures through the strengthening of its core
functions and responsibilities, and the improvement of internal administrative and financial
management systems, so as to enable the MoF to assist the Government in the reform of its
public sector.

Kev Indicators: As a result of Project implementation, it is expected that the Ministry will have:
(i)improvedcapacity for fiscal andfinancial planning; (ii) unified accounting and reporting
                                                            new,
procedures which meet international accounting standards; (iii)    improved norms, procedures,
classifications, and indicators for result-informed budget and financial management, as well as
consistency between budget, treasury and medium term fiscal planning; (iv) revised procedures
and, if appropriate, anew organizational structure andenhancedprofessionalization to efficiently
carry out the functions of the Ministry of Finance; and (v) enhancedtransparency, elimination of
long-standing corrupt practices, increased access to information, and enhanced civil society
involvement inthe planning andmonitoring of results.




                                                 13

 Figure 1. Scope of the Modernization of Ministry of Finance Project




                                            Transparencyand
                                               CivilSociety


             /                                  Mlnlstryof Finance
             '  Fiscaland
                Economic

                 Financial
              Management




                                              Administrative support activities




                   The vision for the Ministry of Finance at the end of the program
                                        (Outcome Indicators)

 By the endof the programthe Ministry shouldbe either operatingunder, or capable of delivering:
     0  Mediumterm fiscal andfinancial planning
     0  Golden fiscal rule which determines deficit ceiling, adjustedby cyclical or emergency situations
     0  Regularadjustmentsto, andharmonizationof, commitments, disbursements,budgetingand
        mediumtermplanning
     0  Tax expenditureandtax evasionindicators which are regularly published-andwhich havebeen
        reducedto normal levels
     0  Regularreportingto, andclose coordination with, Congress, the Central Bank,the Presidentand
        Cabinet Ministers
     0  Results-informedbudgetsbasedupon monitoring andevaluation systems
     0  Comprehensivedebt accounting, including riskandvulnerability analysis
     0  Institutionalizedproceduresfor reporting andcommunication across Ministry of Financeunits
     0  A singlefiscal andfinancial accountinganddatabase
     0  Clearrules for accessto information

~




 3. Project components

 The Project will focus on the following specific areas for the substantive reforms: budgeting,
 treasury and financial management, fiscal planning, tax policy and debt management. The


                                                    14

bureaucratic changes will be implemented through a combination of integrating information
technology, improving information sharing and processing, and organizational and procedural
changes across the Ministry such as accounting, reporting and communication, IT, human
resources management and procurement. An integral part of the change management efforts is
the introduction of a transparency unit, which will shift the incentives within the Ministry
through enhancedtransparency and monitoringby civil society.

Inline with the overallobjective, the Project would consist of threemaincomponents inaddition
to the Project implementation unit, which are necessary to ensure the adequate management and
implementation of the Project.

Component 1 Improvement of Core Products ($3.27 million)
                -

This component focuses on substantive technical reforms within the Ministry of Finance, i.e. on
the key core functions the Ministry should effectively and efficiently achieve in order fulfill its
role as a key actor in the country's economic development and planning efforts. Therefore, the
component will support the improvement of fiscal and economic planning for policy
formulation, implementation and monitoring. This will be achieved through substantive reforms
in the Ministry of Finance and, specifically, capacity building within the areas of economic,
fiscal, budget and financial management.
a. Economic and Fiscal Policv: This sub-component will: (i) skills and procedures to
                                                                   develop
design, implement andevaluatemediumterm planning of economic and fiscal policies including
improving the quality of statistics and analytical capacity; (ii)   strengthen medium term fiscal
planning capacity for National Economic Team leadership; and (iii)          strengthen capacity to
negotiate trade and economic integration agreements.
b. Tax Policv and tax administration: This sub-component will build tax policy and
administration capacity through: (i)  the digitalization of tax returns; (ii) improvement of tax
                                                                           the
collection in selected tax offices; and (iii)   the strengthening of MoFs' capacity to prepare
revenue managementreports andpolicy options to generatenon-tax revenues.
c. Budget and Financial Management: This sub-component will provide assistance in two
critical areas: (a) budget reform through the: (i) revision of the budget's regulatory framework
and setting the foundations for a results-oriented budget; (ii)    design and implementation of a
pilot medium-term monitoring and evaluation program; (iii)improvement of expenditure
monitoring; and (iv) strengthenedrelationship with Congress. More specifically, it will support:
(i) designandphasedimplementationofapilotbudgetingandevaluationprogram,including
   the
initiation of a multi-sector and multi-year impact evaluation program; (ii) phasedrestructuring of
budget classifications; (iii) training for finance-sector budget negotiations and monitoring of
program enhancement agreements between the Ministry of Finance and the responsible sector or
executing agency; and (iv) strengtheningthe working relationship, and reporting to, Congress;
and (b) financial management reform through the improvement of an expenditure management
system aimed to produce immediate budgetary effects including: (i)           implementation of a
decision-making medium term fiscal model and information systems that links medium term
fiscal planning, budget amendments, and adjustment of commitments and disbursements, under
the umbrellaof afiscal rule that imposes a ceiling on the fiscal deficit; (ii)
                                                                            integration of revenue,




                                                  15

debt and expenditure information, including tax expenditure and tax evasion estimates; and (iii)
diagnostic andevaluation of SIAF (the integratedfinancial management system).

d. Public Debt: This subcomponent will strengthen the capacity for public debt management
through the creation of a unit in charge of registration, alignment with accounting practices,
control of all public debt (foreign and domestic), negotiations, risk management and
vulnerability estimates. The new unit will be responsible for producing estimates of floating and
contingency debt, measuring indebtedness capacity, monitoring credit ratings and forecasting
debt models.

e. Public Investment:        This subcomponent will support the functioning of the Unidad de
Coordinacion de Znversion Publica (UCIP) through the development of multi-year public
investment plans and improve execution and evaluation of public investment.

Component 2       -Business       Processes Reengineering and Information Management ($3.27
million)
This component focuses on the improvement of institutional and systemic issues regarding
organization and cross-support. It will provide technical assistancefor the diagnosis, design and
implementation of organization reforms, training and monitoringfor:

a. ChangeManagement: This subcomponent will provide technical assistanceto: (i) the            support
Steering Committee8to lead the reform; (ii)        create the necessary sense of urgency; (iii)    identify
and pre-empt internal resistance to the reform; (iv) guarantee the sustainability of the reform
process throughout changes in the Ministry or other future changes of government; and (v)
anticipate training demands.

b. Process Streamlining: Support the development of the Ministry's vision, missionand strategic
products to increase accountability, efficiency, improvement of service delivery, and access
through the: (i)   review and reengineering of key processes in relation to the delivery of core
products; and (ii)  restructuring of the organization, functions and human resources profiles.

c. Znformation Management: This sub-component will aim at improving access to, and sharing
of information, by introducing a unique database for the entire Ministry of Finance cycle to: (i)
improve informationflows within the Ministry; (ii) an IT policy; and (iii) a new
                                                            design                          develop
ITgovernancemodelfor theMinistry.


d. Human ResourcesManagement: To change the incentive structure for civil servants within the
Ministry so as to improve performance and compliance with ethics standards. This sub-
component will assist the Ministry of Finance, and provide support to: (i)             reengineer specific
processes and procedures in the area of human resources management; (ii)promote the
incorporation of professional staff into the Ministry; (iii)        propose reforms to human resources
regulations and practices; (iv) upgrade the National Human Resources System (SINARH) to


 Steering Committee (Comitt de Direcci6n para el proceso de Reforma del Proyecto de Modernizacih del
Ministerio de Finanzas) to support the MOF's modernization reform process.


                                                      16

serve as new integrated human resource management information system; (v) develop the
interface with the financial management system; (vi) strengthen the Administrative Directorate
(Human Resources) in the Ministry of Finance; and (vii) design and implement training
programs inthe areas of budget, accounting, debt, treasury and revenues.

Activities under this component will be carried out in the Ministry of Finance with the
collaboration of the National Secretariat of Public Administration (NSPA), and the new policies
andprocedureswill beimplemented on apilot basis.The experiences andfindingsof thesepilots
could well serve to expand human resources policies and training to the rest of the central
government.

e. Internal Control and Auditing: This sub-component will provide assistance to support areas
which will improve the performance and efficiency of the Ministry of Finance, namely: internal
control and auditing. This will include efforts to: (a) strengthen control and audit mechanismsin
the Ministry, and provide extensive training to internal auditors; (b) strengthen the Ministry's
internal auditing unit, and institutionalize internal control standards; and (c) develop an audit
module that will be integrated in SIAF.

Component 3     -Transparency,       Civil Society Participation and Communications ($0.86
million)

The Minister of Finance considers the fight against corruption and efforts to improve
professional ethics major and critical challenges. This component will support:

a. Transparency: In order to provide checks and balances, and monitor civil servants'
performance, the Ministry of Finance has created an independent Transparency and Citizen
Participation Unit (UTPC). This sub-component would assist the UTPC in the implementation
of changes such as the: (i) drafting and adoption of an institutionalethics code; (ii)development
and implementation of an access to informationpolicy; (iii)    development and implementation of
norms and standards regarding citizens' interaction with the Ministry; (iv) establishment and
operation of a citizens' information center (Centro de Atencio'n al Ciudadano); and (v) design
andimplementation of an asset disclosure mechanism.

b. Civil Societv Participation: To strengthen civil society's role in the Ministry's reform agenda
and create communication channels to evaluate and discuss further reforms and progress, this
subcomponent will support the: (i) and implementation of mechanisms for citizen
                                        design
monitoring and evaluation of the Ministry's activities; (ii) provision of educational material and
dissemination programs with respect to MOF's services; and (iii)     organization of public forums
to discuss the Ministry's progress.

c. Communications: The Ministry will undertake a communications program and educational
campaign to inform citizens of its role and its reform program. It will emphasizethe importance
of the budgetary process and tax collection through two main activities: (i)         carrying out a
campaign to inform civil servants and the public of the importance of fiscal discipline and
performance monitoring, and the linkage between expenditures and outputs; and (ii) and   design
implementation of a tax campaign to increasetax collection and reduce tax evasion.



                                                 17

Component 4    -Project   Management ($0.86 million)

The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) through the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU).       The PCU will provide support to the Ministry of Finance in
designing, implementing andmonitoringpolicies and institutional reforms.

The PCU will work closely with the recently createdreformprogram's Steering Committee. The
Steering Committee is responsible for approving and monitoring structural changes which
transform the Ministry drafting the strategic plan (definiciones estrat6gicas) and critical path of
the reform, approving individual reform projects, ensuring financing for the reform process, and
signingand monitoring result agreements with individual units. The governance structure of the
Reform Program also includes Ministry of Finance units responsible for implementation of
individual reform projects as well as the program implementation unit responsible for
information gathering, reform processesand communications.

The proceeds of the loan would be used to finance technical assistance, training, a limited
amount of hardware and software, and professional staff of the PCU. Consultant services,
training and purchases of IT and related information technology items would be major focus of
the Project. Government resourceswould finance infrastructure andlogisticalexpenses.

4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design

Important lessons have been learned from World Bank experience, and which were taken into
account inthe Project's design.

Take into account in-depth analytical work done preceding a project to ensure quality. This
Project is based on extensive reports and policy notes preparedby the WBI, IMFtax department,
UNDP, Transparency International and the task team before and during Project preparation as
well as the IGR, CPAR, and CFAA. In particular, lessons learned indicate that enhancing
analytical capacity, transparent and timely accounting and reporting i s the most basic step
towards ensuring quality delivery of Ministryof Finance's basic services.

Institutional reforms in an environment marked bv strong state capture need to be tackled
incrementally. The operation focuses on one key agency instead of a broader reform effort inthe
executive branch. Lessons learned from Chile, Peru and some Brazilian states have shown that
phased, piecemeal approaches to public sector modernization, beginning with the Ministry of
Finance as a pilot, are more likely to be sustainableand stimulate ownership than comprehensive
"overnight" reforms. The Project would help to create and replicate building blocks within a
sequencingstrategy.

Strong political commitment to the reform agenda is a key condition prior to moving ahead in
the reform effort. To demonstratethe existingpolitical commitment, the new Administration and,
specifically, the Minister of Finance, agreed to act as a model to quickly improve strategic
products and to serve as an example for other ministries to follow.




                                                 18

Public sector reform is a long-term process that reauires the collaboration of local and
international actors. The Project aims at involving and engaging civil society to ensure
participation in the design and implementation of the agreed reforms. In addition, the Project
will collaborate with Transparency International, IDB, and other international organizations.
The involvement and participation of the civil society will be crucial to ensure the success and
sustainability of the reform.

Building sustainable technical cauacitv depends on the Government's fiscal capacitv to
permanently retain trained staff    The Ministry of Finance has agreed to provide adequate
resources to establish a full human resources management system. After clear HR policy rules
are established, clear andtransparent criteria for salaries would also be imposed.

5. Alternatives considered andreasons for rejection

Duringthe last four years, the Bank's governance assistancefocused on diagnostic works (AAA
and ESW) that resulted in an important, but limited, level of technical assistance to Paraguay.
The Bank considered the alternative of continuing to support Paraguay in the same manner,
however, after having clear evidence that this administration i s led by pro-reformist leaders
(particularly the Minister of Finance), the Bank decided to move ahead with this initiallending
operation inorder to provide Paraguay with higherlevelof technical and financial assistance.

A second alternative considered was to continue supporting comprehensive public sector reform
initiatives or horizontal reform programs such as those initiated during the 1990's in several
countries. Since those reforms have been proven to have been only partially, or inefficiently,
implemented, the Project team has focused its efforts on consolidating the advances achieved at
the agency level. This i s consistent with the findings of the Institutional Governance Review
(IGR) regarding the formal and informal institutional constraints faced by the Ministry of
Finance's reform program. The IGR focuses on a few concrete functions and roles critical to the
Ministry of Finance's reformplans and its analysis covers four dimensions: the legal framework,
organizational structure, capacity and informal practices, and rules of the game. This operation
would support the implementation of those findings and recommendations.

A third alternative was to expand the reform in this initial phase throughout the central
government, regional Gobernaciones, and municipalities. It was decided to be less ambitious
and only cover selected pilot agencies at the central government in this first operation, which
could facilitate an adequate decentralized response to the new norms and systems introduced by
the Ministry. Therefore, the Project would focus on providing training to the central
governments' staff in financial management and developing an improved disbursement system
of fiscal transfers from Ministry of Finance to the selected pilot agencies at the central and
regional level allowing the tracking of their expenditures. A separate Project to be prepared
would support efforts to improve fiscal managementat the municipal level.




                                                  19

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The Ministry's reform agenda has been framed within the National Integrity Plan (PNI), which
includes a transparency and integrity strategy for the public sector, and its staff provides
instruments to monitor and evaluate public sector performance, with a strong emphasis on the
role of civil society in these activities. Within this framework, the Project team has worked
closely with CISNI, which has been designated as the main agency to carry out the activities
under the PNI.

The Government and Project team have coordinated with other financial institutions and donors
to fully achieve the complementary objectives agreed to, and to reinforce efficiencies and
synergies, although no formal co-financing will accompany this operation. Coordination i s being
ensuredwith the IDB on financial management, customs and tax administration issues; with the
U S Treasury's Office of Technical Assistance on budget reform and tax administration; and with
the IMF on macro economic issues. The comprehensive, ministry-wide scope of the MMFP
complements the sectoral focus of the technical assistance activities of these other agencies and
provides a good instrument for ensuring overall coordination of donor-funded technical
assistance to MoF. The involvement of civil society has contributed to the design of agreed
reforms and continued participation of civil stakeholders will be important to ensure the success
and sustainability of the reform program. Further details on coordination of technical assistance
to the Ministry of Finance are provided inAnnex 15.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Project Implementation and Coordination: The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The PCU will provide support to
the Ministry of Finance in designing, implementing and monitoring policies and institutional
reforms; the PCU will be headed by a National Director and staffed by nationals with relevant
experience inthe field.

The PCU will work closely with the reform program's Steering Committee. The Steering
Committee is responsible for approving and monitoring structural changes to transform the
Ministry, drafting the strategic plan (definiciones estratkgicas) and critical path of the reform,
approving individual reform projects, ensuring financing for the reform process, and signing and
monitoring result agreements with individual units. The governance structure of the Reform
Program also includes the Ministry of Finance units responsible for implementation of individual
reform project and the program implementation unit responsible for information gathering,
reform processes and communications.

The PCU will also be responsible for the coordination with the Public Administration
Department (Funcidn Piblica) inthe redesign of the SINARH.

The PCU will be responsible for administration of Project funds, monitoring and reporting, and
contracting procedures. Detailed implementation arrangements are presentedinAnnex 6.



                                                20

3. Monitoring andevaluationof outcomes/results

The Bank will monitor Project execution through a set of key performance indicators as well as
Bank supervision missions. The set of indicators and their expectedtrajectory over the four year
time horizon of the Project were finalized at appraisal and approved by the Steering Committee.
The PCU has agreed to provide a first year work plan as a condition of loan effectiveness and
will prepare annual work plans prior to each calendar year. The PCU has already prepared draft
work plans for the entire four-year horizon of the Project. The work plan for the first year of the
Project was agreed to during project appraisal and the preliminary work plans for the subsequent
three years of the Project will be reviewed as well. Annual reviews of the Project will be carried
out no later than April 30th of each year, beginning in 2006. A mid-term review will be
conducted no later than April 30, 2007 to assess progress on agreed targets and to identify
additional support as needed. Semi-annual progressreports will be presentedto the Bank no later
than 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar semester, startingDecember 31,2005.

4. Sustainability

Borrower's commitment and ownership. Evidence of the Government's commitment to and its
ownership of, the proposed operation are amply proven by its commitment to the Project's initial
phases. The fact that the Government identified most of the components during the preparation
of the Project further attests to this commitment. The Government has already taken significant
steps towards fiscal discipline, transparency, process simplification and higher expenditure
efficiency, inanticipation of the reformprogram, including the following:

e       The 2004 budget introduced some budgetperformance indicators
e       The Directorate of Budget preparedflows projections for every execution unit includedin
        the budget.This projection already includes a 6 percent reduction from the previous year
e       A new ceiling on short term (floating) debt--monthly commitments cannot exceed
        available cash
e       The introduction of a modern and transparent public procurement system. A new
        procurement plan initiated in 2003 i s producing price savings of up to 20 percent
        compared to prices actually paidin2002
e       The investment planningunithas been createdunder the Ministry of Finance
e       Customs and tax procedures and control mechanisms have been revised. As a result, tax
        revenues have gone up by 44% in the January-July 2004 period over their level a year
        earlier
e       Some units in the Ministry of Finance are already advancing an inventory of their own
        procedures

Change Management Avuroach & Communication Methodology. In order to enhance
commitment, coordination and sustainability for the reform process and to support intra and
inter-institutional coordination among vice ministries, Project implementation will be
strengthenedthrough the use of a changemanagement methodology and communication tools.

Financial Sustainabilitv. Project implementation is expected to generate economic and fiscal
savings as a result of a better budget allocation decisions, more effective monitoring and control


                                                 21

of financial flows, and a more sound fiscal managementpolicy. This will result inreducedfiscal
vulnerability, an improved fiduciary framework inthe areas of financial management and public
procurement, an enhanced capability to evaluate and decide between public investment
opportunities, a more qualifiedcivil service that will improve service delivery and effectiveness,
and a closer scrutiny of publicperformance by civic groups.

5. Critical risks andpossible controversialaspects

Governance Risks: The proposed reforms are far reaching and would threaten a large number of
established practices in the areas of corruption, rent seeking and state capture. Though the
President and the Minister of Finance have made it clear that they will put their full authority
behind the reforms, implementation delays, changes in leadership or other problems could
diminishreform momentum. A change of Minister and/or other high level champions of reform
within the Ministry could either slow down or derail the pace of reform. Moreover,
Congressional support will be necessary. Stability and continuity of the government are closely
linked to the success of its anti-corruption and reform initiatives (and thus the MMFP).The risk
i s high but balanced by high potential returns to the country and the Bank. Mitigating factors
include: (i)  the implementation of a communications strategy geared towards engaging and
gainingthe support of other government units and civil society; (ii) fact that no legal change
                                                                      the
i s required to advance the Project -which also minimizes governance risk; and (iii)            the
anticipation of intermediate goals and other specific programmatic benchmarks that may trigger
loan suspension, as upfront recognition that supervision requirements and cost will be
significant.
Ownership Risks: technical innovation i s likely to be resisted and there i s already a low level of
assimilation capacity currently exists at the Ministry of Finance. Nevertheless, the Bank has
already developed a fluid working relationship with Ministry of Finance's officials through the
preparation of strategic planning's seminars financed by the PHRD and IDF. Moreover, during
implementation the Project will place heavy emphasis on change management initiatives and
training of staff. The Bank will also allocate sufficient resources to supervise the Project to
mitigate risks andto provide guidance during critical periods inthe reformprocess.
Capacity: The present Government has limited experience with Bank project, and the prolonged
absence of the Bank in Paraguay requires additional resources to ensure the efficient
implementation and sustainable design of the proposed reforms. The Project Implementation
Unit will be provided with the necessary resources to ensure a successful Project
implementation.
Recurrent Costs: The exceptionally large share of recurrent expenditures in the form of salaries
and pensions are a burden for development. The proposed Project will address this issue by
limiting those costs within the components. Inthe longrun,the Project will contribute to savings
in salaries and pensions through a new human resource management system, improved
monitoringandrevised administrative systems.

6. Loadcredit conditions andcovenants

No extraordinary effectiveness conditions are necessary to begin the implementation of the
Project. Besides the standard conditions for effectiveness, the following additional conditions


                                                 22

need to be met for effectiveness: (i) presentation of an action plan for Project activities to be
carried out during the first Project year; and (ii)     approval by the Borrower of a Project
Operations Manualacceptableto the Bank.

D. APPRAISALSUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

Since the proposed operation would focus on capacity building activities, it is difficult to
quantify Project outputs and benefits, or to precisely calculate rates of return. Nonetheless, since
positive fiscal impacts are expected, Project implementation is expected to generate economic
gains. The most noteworthy economic and fiscal savings are expected to result from: (i)
widespread implementation of a more accurate and timely financial management system that
would permit improvedbudget allocation decisions and more effective monitoring and control of
financial flows; (ii)a more sound fiscal policy management, itself resulting in reduced fiscal
vulnerability; (iii)
                   an improved fiduciary framework in the areas of financial management and
public procurement, which would reduce public resource leakages; (iv) an enhanced capacity to
evaluate and decide between public investment opportunities that would increase the economic
returns of the public investment program; (v) a more integrated and aligned international donor
assistanceeffort that would eliminate dispersedassistanceand improve foreign aid effectiveness;
(vi) a more qualified cadre of civil servants that would improve service delivery and
effectiveness; and (vii) closer scrutiny of public performance from civic groups resulting in a
more transparent andresults-oriented management of public resources.

2. Technical

Technical aspects of the Project are related to the implementation of the latest generation of
information and communication technologies along with other technical assistance activities in
the areas of economic and financial management andpublic administration. The Government has
demonstrated the experience and ability to manage the implementation and further maintenance
of such technology. As a result of previous Bank assistance and other donor support inthis field,
the Ministry of Finance is staffed with well-trained staff in these areas. Such staff will receive
regular training to update capabilities and develop in-country capacity to operate such
technologies.

3. Fiduciary

Financial Management and Procurement requirements were performed before appraisal to
evaluate the procurement and financial management arrangements and the Project Coordination
Unit's capacity to provide the Bank with accurate, reliable, and timely information regarding
resourcesand expenditures (see annexes7 and 8).

4. Social

This Project currently triggers noneof the Bank's environmental or social safeguardpolicies.




                                                23

5. Environment

This Project currently triggers none of the Bank's environmental or social safeguard policies.
The project i s rated as Category "C."

6. Safeguard policies

This Project currently triggers noneof the Bank's environmental or social safeguardpolicies.

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                     Yes                  No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                        [I                   [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)
  Pest Management COP4.09)
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP4.1 1)
  InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)
  Projects inDisputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)

7. PolicyExceptionsandReadiness

The proposed Project would not require any exceptions from Bank policies and would comply
with all applicable Bankpolicies.




* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                            24

                      Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                  Paraguay    - Strengthening      of the Ministry of Finance Project

Since the end of the three-decade long Stroessner dictatorship, Paraguay has been struggling to
establish a successful market based economy with sustainable and equitable growth. Its efforts
have been impeded, in part, by institutional weaknesses that have contributed to inefficient
governance, widespread corruption, and the expansion of informal institutions outside a state-
backed system and legal framework. This situation is reflected in Paraguay's continuing low
performance in all leading governance indicator^.^
The overall financial and economic situation has deteriorated dramatically inthe past five years.
Since 1998 per capita GDP has decreased by US$ 800, to US$ 1,000 and i s now lower than in
1990. The structural imbalance of revenues and expenditures has created substantial and
prolonged primary deficits resulting in financial crisis and culminating in the default on national
and foreign debt as well as public service salaries and pensions. These fiscal problems aggravate
the public's distrust andreservations towards the Government andpublic service in general.

The new Government of Nicanor Duarte Frutos has moved quickly to advance some critical
reforms and has requested Bank assistance to do so. An Economic Recovery Structural
Adjustment Loan (PERL) became effective in December 2003. To support the implementation
of the administrative and governance reforms under the PERL, the Bank agreed to: provide
technical assistancethrough an InstitutionalandGovernanceReview (IGR) to analyze the formal
and informal factors impeding institutional, political, economic and social development, and the
proposed Public Sector Loan to support the Ministry of Finance in creating a model for public
sector reform inParaguay.

The MMFP will focus on the Ministry of Finance due to its considerable budgetary, revenue, and
humanresourcemanagement functions, its monitoringandevaluation responsibilities within the
government, as well as its oversight role of other agencies, and the opportunity presentedby its
leadership's commit merit to reform. Lessons from governance reform elsewhere in the region,
and the difficult history of Bank operations in Paraguay, underscore the need to undertake an
incremental approach. The Project takes these lessons into account andhas strategically selected
the Ministry of Finance as the entry point for future development efforts, both because the
Ministry's work has such far reaching effects for the country's economic development and
because its reform efforts can be used to demonstrate the benefits of the reform process to other
agencies. Over the medium term the successes and lessons learned from the Project, as well as
the momentum gained, could be extendedto other agencies and government systems.

The Ministry itself appears to suffer from a gamut of organizational challenges, including
fragmentation, outdated budget and human resource systems, cumbersome and unduly
discretionary internal procedures, skills imbalances, low morale, and accusations of widespread
corruption, etc. The operation would implement recommendations from the Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) and the Country Procurement Report (CPAR) and
complement efforts by other bilateral and multilateral agencies. The Bank would draw on its


 Paraguayhas consistentlyranked as one of the ten lowest countriesTransparency International's Global
Corruption PerceptionIndex and receivessimilar ratings inthe World Bank`s six governanceindicators.


                                                      25

successful experiences in working with Finance Ministries and revenue agencies, as well as the
growing knowledge base in change management and mobilization of external stakeholders and
civil society to support reform champions. The proposed Project conforms to the new CAS,
which identifies the strengthening public institutions and public services as key to fiscal and
financial stabilization, governance and transparency.




                                                26

        Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bankand/or other Agencies
                    Paraguay    - Strengthening of  the Ministryof Finance Project



                     Sector Issue                                   Project                      Ratin s
                                                                                               ~




                                                                                                     m  8.
                                                                                                        h




 Public administration, including finance, fiscal   Economic Recovery Structural                       S
 sustainability and general industry and trade.     Ad'ustment Loan (IBRD/IDAUS$30 M)
Secondary Education Sector, including sub-          !
                                                    Education ReformProgram (IBRD/IDA                  S
national government administration, tertiary        US$24M)
education, and other social services.
Agriculture, fishing and forestry sector including  Pilot Community Development Project                S
central government administration, general          (IBRD/IDA US$9 M)
industry andtrade sector, andother social
services.

Infrastructure, water supply and sanitation sector;                                                    S
including central govemment administration, sub-
national govemment administration, and sewage.

 Public sector modernization through                Strengthening the Ministry of Finance        S     S
 strengthening the Ministry of Finance's core       Project PHRDGrant No. PO53141
 functions.                                         (IBRD/IDA$0.82 M)
Public sector modernization's implementationof      Support Paraguay's Civil Service Reform      S     S
the civil service reform.                           IDFGrantNo. TF051372 (IBRD/IDA
                                                    $0.42 M)                                         -
Judicial Reform to strengthenthe Supreme            Legal and Judicial Reform IDFGrant No        S     S
Court's andCouncil of Magistrates' abilities to     TF051371 (IBRD/IDA$0.44 M)
supervise andplanthe delivery ofjudicial
services.


Public sector modernization including financial     Fiscal Management Strengthening and Modernization
management,customs andinternal revenue              Project (IDB Loan $8.6 M)
modernizationefforts.

Public sector modernization including               Procurement Reform (IDB Grant $ 1.8 M)
strengthening the efficiency and transparency of
the government procurement system.

Public sector modernization including                Accounting Reform (IDB Grant $0.15 M)
strengthening of the government accounting




                                                   27

                              Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                     Paraguay     - Strengthening of     the Ministry of Finance Project


                                                                             Use of Outcome Information
Support the Ministry of Finance's                                             3etter coordination betweenthe
efforts to strengthenfiscal            capacity to: (i) and establish
                                                        design               Ministry of Finance and other
sustainability and quality of public   medium-term fiscal policy; (ii)       lomestic and international
expendituresby focusing on the         implementbudgetperformance             nstitutions
Ministry's strategic definitions and   indicators, and (iii)prepare annual
core products; and by improving        financial plans (NFPS accounts,       Moreinformed budget decisions as
efficiency, effectivenessand           banking sector accounts, balanceof     well as improved Executive-
transparencyof those internal          payments,public debt and macro        Legislativecommunication on
administrative and financial           flows)                                 iudget-related issues
management systems that are
essentialfor delivery of core                                                 ?rovidea macro framework for the

products, so as to enablethe MOFto                                            nanagementof fiscal policy

assist the Government inthe reform
of its public sector

                                        Improved proceduresfor budget         [mprovementof quality of public
                                        formulation and financial             :xpenditures through: (a) a
                                        management, gradual incorporation     transparent framework for budgetary
                                        of key principles of result-oriented  procedures; (b) arevisedcatalogue
                                        budgeting                             o f expenditures; (c) a survey on the
                                                                              linksbetweenpoverty and public
                                                                              Expenditures; and (d) proposals for
                                                                              indicatorson quality of public
                                                                              expenditures

                                        Processmapping, simplificationand     Improvedquality of fiscal policies
                                        integration of informationflows has   due to timely availability of more
                                        been completedfor Ministry of         reliable management data, and
                                        Finance's core functions              integration of the Ministry of
                                                                              Finance's cycle

                                                                              Enhancedtransparencyand
                                                                              communication with civil society
                                                                              and expandedchannelsfor
                                                                              participatory processes due to
                                                                              disseminationof reliable information
                                                                              with formats tailored made to each
                                                                              audience

                                                                              Increasedefficiency and integration
                                                                              through the overhaul of processes
                                                                              andestablishment of institutional
                                                                              linksbetweenunits




                                                          28

                               Results Indicators for Each             Use of Results Monitoring
                                         Component
Component One:                ComponentOne:                          Component One:
Improvementof CoreProducts
Economic and Fiscal Policy    Improved basic statistics and          Report: Regular updateson medium
                              methodologiesto formulate and          termforecastsfor key fiscal
                              assesseconomic and fiscal policies     indicators, including revenues,
                              as well as short and medium term       Zxpenditures, primary balanceand
                              macroeconomic and fiscal               debt sustainability starting 2006
                              projections
                                                                     Annual revisionof quality of basic
                                                                     statistics

                              Coordination of National Economic      Ministry of Financeand Central
                              Teamhas been strengthened on the       Bank presentthe economic and
                              basis of standard, reliable fiscal and financial plan for 2006 and
                              economic data                          subsequent years

                              The capacityof the Vice Ministry of    The Vice Ministry of Economics and
                              Economics and Integrationhas been      Integration regularly delivers and
                              strengthenedby: (a) reorganization;    adjustscore strategic products,
                              (b) betterdefined strategicproducts    including: (i) a medium termfiscal
                              and trade negotiation skills,; (c)     framework; and (ii)  the economic
                              approvednew methodologiesand           and financial plan for years 2006
                              procedures;(d) professionalization;    and following (together with the
                              (e); presentationof a medium term      Central Bank)
                              vision of the fiscal policy; and (f)
                              presentation(incollaboration with      100 % of professionalsat the Vice-
                              the Central Bank) of the economic      Ministry of Economics and
                              and financial plan for 2006            Integration have beentrained by
                                                                     2007

                              Tax management dataand revenue         Reports:Annual revenue
                              projections from the last two years    strengtheningplanbased on revenue
                              and forecasting for next 3 years,      projections (passive and with policy
                              available on a daily basis, beginning  scenarios) and policy options
                              2006
                                                                     Estimatesof tax evasionand
                                                                     collection by grouping taxpayers
                                                                     (sector, size, region), beginning
                                                                     2007




                                                29

Budget Management         Improvedaccounting,quality of data  teport: (a) gap analysisof current
                          andformatting for standardized      iccounting norms and practicesvis a
                          expenditurereports beginning 2006   ,is Generally Accepted Accounting
                                                              Standards by 2005; (b) proposalfor
                                                              iew regulatory framework for
                                                              iudgetary proceduresby 2005; and
                                                              :c) improved capacity of Treasury to
                                                              idjustdisbursementsandreduce
                                                              3oatingdebt in accordance with
                                                              Zscalresponsibility targets by 2006

                          Firstphaseof result-informed        Budget performanceindicators have
                          budget is completedby 2006,         Jeen applied to budgetprograms,
                          including improved new regulatory   ?rejects and activities in4 pilot
                          framework for budgetprocess,        ministries (health, education,
                          classifications,budgetperformance   infrastructureand agriculture) by
                          indicators, evaluationand           2005,6 pilotministries 2006, 8 pilot
                          information systems to support      ministries by 2007 and 10ministries,
                          decision-making for budget          by 2008
                          formulation
                                                              New regulatory framework for
                                                              budgetprocess implemented by
                                                              2008

                          Pilot phaseof budget evaluation has BudgetControl Departmentwithin
                          been implementedby 2007             the Budget Directorate strengthened
                                                              by 2007


                          Number of MoF staff trained innew    100%of staff trained by 2008
                          financial managementrules and
                           methodologies

                           Relationship with Congress in       (a) Custom-madebudgetreportsfor
                           budgetprocess strengthened          the Congress made by 2006; and (b)
                                                               mechanismsto discuss budget
                                                               execution and evaluation have been
                                                               institutionalized by 2007
Public debt management     Staff trained innew SIGADE and      Report: Annual report on total debts
                           model for debt registration,        includingdebt classification (direct,
                           management and forecasting.         indirect, floating, contingent
                           100%professionalstrained by 2006    liabilities) risks and vulnerabilities
                                                               beginning 2007

                                                                Improvedebt registration 70 % by
                                                                2006,80 % by 2007 and 100%by
                                                                2008




                                            30

Public investment management          New evaluation systems for         Leport: (a) National Public
                                      investmentprojects implemented      nvestmentPlanby 2006; and (b)
                                                                         :valuation of Project progress during
                                      Approve regulation neededfor ex-   :xecution and ex-postevaluations
                                      ante evaluationof projects by 2006 lased upon pre-defined Project
                                                                          ndicatorsby 2006


Component Two:                        Component Two:                     Zomponent Two:
BusinessProcessesReengineering
andInformation Management

Changemanagementstrategy:             SteeringCommittee strengthened.    Zeports and minutes of meetingsof
designand implementation of a                                            Steering Committee beginning 2005.
strategy to ensure the success of the Preparationand implementation of a Jhange managementplan approved
reformprocess                         changemanagementplanthat           iy 2005
                                      accompaniesthe organizational
                                      reform                             Monthly revision of change
                                                                         nanagementplan andreformagenda
                                      Publication of reformagenda 2005-  leginningby 2005
                                      2007

Streamlining business processesand,   Key processes relatedto core       Report: Accounting, budget, treasury
ifappropriate, new organizational     functions reengineeredand tested   mdaudit department's processes
structureto improve information                                          streamlinedby 2006. New
flow betweendepartments,              Improved organization structureof  regulationsandproceduresdefining
providing timely and accurate         the Ministry. Rolesand             the composition andfunctions of the
information for policy formulation    responsibilities of different      Economic Cabinet, Public Debt
and administration                    departments approved               Unit, UCIP, others by 2006.
                                                                         Establishstrategic products that will
                                                                          be delivered by Vice Ministries and
                                                                         Departments. Approve
                                                                         methodologies and proceduresof the
                                                                         main core products by 2006

HumanResourcesManagement:             Improved humanresources policies   Report: HR policies and procedures
Fully operationalhumanresource        and procedures(pilot) inkey         for accounting, budget, treasury and
unit inthe Ministry with improved     departments                         units of the Vice Ministry of
humanresourcespolicies and                                                Economicsand Integration units
procedures                                                                approvedby 2006

                                                                          Report: Steering Committee
                                                                          publishesthe required profile of
                                                                          professionalsincore MoF processes
                                                                          by 2005

                                      Number of MoF staff trained inthe   Training plan approvedby 2005
Financial InformationManagement       newpolicies and procedures
Reform: Improve access and sharing
of information                        Number of staff trained in new      100%of staff at participating levels
                                      Financial InformationManagement     have been trained in new financial
                                      and internalcontrol standards       management and internal control
Internal Control and Auditing:                                            standardsby 2008
 Strengthencapacity ininternal
control and auditing                  Audit module integratedin SIAF




                                                        31

Component Three:               Component Three:                      Component Three:
Transparency, Civil Society
Participation and
Communications

Transparency                   Access to information policy and      [nformation policy developedby
                               mechanismdeveloped                    2006

                               Citizen's information center          Center establishedby 2006. Access
                               established andfinancial and budget   financial and budgetinformation
                               information regularly publishedand    throughinternet by 2006
                               made availablethrough internet and
                               other means

                               Number of MoF staff trained inthe     100%ofprofessionalstrained by
                               ethics code and transparency          2008
                               policies and procedures.

                               Asset declarationof officials inthe   100% of high-level officials
                               Ministry presentedto the              submitted their asset declarations by
                               Comptroller GeneralOffice             2006

Civil Society Participation    Partnershipswith civil society        Annual agreements renewedwith at
                               organizationsestablishedfor           leastthree Civil Society
                               monitoring andevaluation of MoF       Organizations; reports
                               services to the public, particularly
                               public financial management
                               information

Communications                 New internal and external             Communications program approved
                               communicationsprogram inplace         by 2005 and under implementation
                                                                     2005-2008

                               Mechanismsto measuretax               Annual Reports
                               compliance andquality of services,
                               particularly tax payments
                               procedures, services delivery and
                               access to budget information




                                                 32

  /f                             m
        B        E    E   E      m
        E  3     8    8   8
E It             g        E
                 m    g
                      m    %

        B
        8  8E    E
                 0
                 W    g    g
                      W     W


                 E
                 x    B
                      54    B
                            x



        0   0    0    0     0

      2 28.        2m
                   28


        %
        B          %
                   B
      3 3          a



       E
       E      8
              e



I  d    E     E
       0m     8                        E    m

l h     E                              E
        %     E
              a                        8    g
                                            W


        E
        4     E
              a    3
                   E  E
                      4  E s g
                          X  m   @
                                 8 %E       E
                                            4

l  o               0
              E    $
        0     2    -  0   0  0   o $   0    0

                   0   s  E
            8
            5  58
            88 E8




0  0 0 0    0  0    0  0  0    0 0

                             Annex 4: DetailedProject Description
                 Paraguay   - Strengthening of  the Ministry of Finance Project

The Proiect development obiective is to support the Ministry of Finance's efforts to improve
fiscal sustainability and quality of public expenditures by focusing on the Ministry's strategic
definitions, strengthening its core products, and increasing the efficiency, effectiveness and
transparency of those internal administrative and financial management systems that are
essentially needed for delivery of core products, so as to enable the MOF to assist the
Government inthe reformof its public sector.

The result of this reform will be: when the Project i s fully implemented, the Ministry of Finance
will be able to track and monitor expenditures, provide reliable macroeconomic, fiscal data,
forecasting data, reduce spending by consolidating processes, create fiscal space through
informed budget decisions based on M&E, and provide an adjustable framework for medium
term budget planning. The Project will focus on specific areas for the substantive reforms:
budgeting, treasury and financial management, fiscal planning, tax policy and debt management.
The bureaucratic changes will be implemented through a combination of integrating information
technology for improving information sharing and processing, as well as organizational and
procedural changes across the Ministry such as accounting, reporting and communication, IT,
human resources management and procurement. An integral part of the change management i s
the introduction of a transparency unit, which will shift the incentives within the Ministry
through enhancedtransparency andmonitoringby civil society.

Background

Since Paraguay's return to democracy, it has struggled to develop a committed and efficient
public service. Lack of capacity, inadequate procedures, insufficient fiscal and administrative
oversight, and lack of transparency have contributed to its inefficiencies, as well as to corruption
and a decline of quality in public services. Traditionally, the Ministry of Finance is the agency
that oversees the sector ministries with respect to programs, spending and procurement, as well
as beingincharge of the revenue side of the country's balance sheet.

In the case of Paraguay, the Ministry's oversight function, as well as the management of
revenues and expenditures are in sore need of reform. Within the strategic long-term recovery
program for Paraguay, which was formalized in the PRSP and adopted in the Banks Country
Assistance Strategy, accounting, fiscal and financial management reform i s a key pillar in the
strategy to improve public service delivery, reduce poverty and increase transparency.

Though the deterioration within the public sector was a gradual one, the problems have become
structural and systemic, therefore a comprehensive reform of the Ministry of Finance i s needed
at this point. While the MoF's reform program i s small in comparison to the overall public
sector reform program, it is bound to influence the overall quality of public expenditures. It will
also establish animportant precedentfor the rest of the administration.

The problem - Currently available, the quality of data, information flows and integration of
information obstructs the Ministry's ability to ensure fiscal sustainability or enhance quality of


                                                36

expenditures. As a result, no unit -nor the Ministry as a whole for that matter -is preparedto
be held accountable for delivery of core products. The ex-ante analysis, forecasting and early
warning mechanisms on revenues or commitments necessary for fiscal sustainability are not in
place. This results in: (i)
                          unpredictable budget deficits; (ii)limit of intervention opportunities to
                                                           a
a finance a shortfall of the Economic Cabinet of the Ministry to reduction of investments; iii)
rigid current expenditures; (iv) poorly evaluated investment projects and government programs;
(v) limited revenue reform options, and (vi) under achievement in infrastructure or social goals
due to amismatch of budget planandexecution.

The Project is an integral part of a concerted assistance program by all major development
organizations operating in Paraguay. Though coordination of the individual partners i s important
during implementation, the individualoperations are structured insuch a way that the individual
development objectives and results will be achieved without the implementation of other
projects. The synergy of the freestanding projects will provide additional benefits for Paraguay.
The major partner inthis coordinated effort is the IDB, which i s providing assistanceinthe areas
of financial management, procurement, tax administration and public investment. The
components andtasks within the proposed operation address key Ministry functions. The Project
will support a well-focused reform of the capacity of the Ministry to deliver core services of a
quality comparable to international standards. The reform of the Ministry should consolidate and
strengthen the role of the Ministry of Finance in the overall public sector reform effort. The
choice of components and tasks within the technical assistance operation was determined by
numerous studies and background information compiled by a number of external agencies
working in Paraguay. Most importantly, the ongoing IGR and PHRD are supporting the
preparation of detailed reforms for various components. Moreover, as stated above, there have
been intensive consultations with the Ministry as well as the IDB and other bilateral donors in
order to ensure close coordination of the activities and avoid overlap. Annex 15 describes the
technical assistanceprovided to the Ministry of Finance.

The new Administration has demonstrated its commitment to a sustained organizational reform
effort over the next four years. Given its key role in the public sector, the Government has
requested assistance, through the proposed Project, to reorganize and modernize the MoF.
Furthermore, it i s expectedthat a successful reform in the MoF will stimulate, and subsequently
expand to, the rest of the public sector. As identified by the GoP officials, the main challenges
for the successful reorganization of the Ministry over the next four years are: (i) Organizational
Reforms: to restructure, reorganize and integrate the core processes and products of the Ministry
of Finance; (ii)HumanResourcesManagement: to strengthenthe skills andthe incentives of the
Ministry's staff, especially those connected with delivery of the Ministry's core services, and
improve their commitment and motivation to improve service delivery; (iii)      Capacity Building:
to increase capacity to improve fiscal and economic policy making, monitoring and evaluation
andfinancing of government priorities, as well as information sharing, through IT infrastructure
improvements; (iv) Information Management: to support budget, accounting, financial
management, debt and public investment reform; (v) Transparency: to enhance efficiency and
transparency of the Ministry's functions in regards to other government entities and the private
sector; and (vi) Medium Term Strategy: to design and implement a realistic, medium-term
reform strategy, including change management and communication strategies, to ensure the
sustainability of the reform.



                                                37

The Project consists of four components. The first component focuses on the core products of the
Ministry of Finance. The second component addresses the organizational and cross-support
needs within the Ministry of Finance, whereas the third component addresses issues of
transparency and the monitoringandevaluation functions of Ministry's performance. The fourth
component is Project Management.

Component1 Improvementof CoreProducts($3.27 million)
                -

The Ministry of Finance requires assistance to improve the quality of core products. Presently,
the policy making decisions, such a budget proposals and macro-economic policies are flawed
due to insufficient knowledge of current modeling techniques, weak M&Eandinadequatedata to
perform adequate analysis.
The Ministry of Finance needs to enhance its capacity in the area of medium term fiscal and
economic policy formulation, implementation and monitoring, and improve the skills set in the
areas of economic, fiscal and financial management. To support fiscal sustainability and sound
economic policies, the Government of Paraguay must address key problems in its core functions
-fiscalpolicy, taxadministration, treasury,budgetingandexpendituremanagement.
Presently, the responsibilities of the Vice-Ministry of Economic Policy and Integration include,
among others, economic and fiscal forecasting, economic integration, public debt management,
and oversight of public banks. Since the change in government, the Vice-Ministry was able to
produce quick results with a small team of professional staff. However, limited humanresources
and the small number of civil servants with adequate skills, has restricted the Vice-Ministry's
ability to deliver adequate services and products. Some of the priorities of the Vice-Ministry in
upcoming years include macro-monitoring, economic and sector policy formulation, public
investment management and planning, fiscal policy design and evaluation, ensuring sustainable
revenues through tax policy design, and the development of a medium-term fiscal plan in order
to promote fiscal discipline.
Inaddition to its core activities, the Vice-Ministry provides technical advice to the Minister and
the Government at-large on economic issues, and assists in the coordination of the economic
programs and the economic development plan. Inorder to perform these additional tasks, senior
staff need to be trained in the formulation, coordination, and monitoring and evaluation of these
economic policies so as to ensure consistency with the overall macro-economic framework and
public investment strategy. Finally, a participatory process to discuss economic policies with
large social impact is beingcreated.

a. Economic and Fiscal Policy: In order to address these problems this subcomponent would
provide the following capacity buildingmeasureswithin the areas of economic andfiscal policy:

Develop skills and procedures to design, implement and evaluate medium term economic and
fiscal policies. The Project will support the improvement of basic statistics, and build the
capacity for economic analysis, the preparation of a fiscal responsibility law, a medium term
macroeconomic framework and fiscal discipline parameters. Additionally, this activity will
promote coordination with the Central Bank and the Statistics Directorate (Direccidn General de
Estadisticas y Censos) to regularly generate reliable economic information, as well as well as




                                                38

train and otherwise strengthen the capacity of MoF to lead trade and economics integration
negotiations,

Strengthen medium termfiscal planning capacity for National Economic Team leadership. This
technical function needs to be institutionalized to support the Minister of Finance and other high-
level officials when they interact with other cabinet members in the process of formulation,
conciliation and implementation of public economic policies.lo

Strengthen capacity to negotiate trade and economic integration agreements. The Project will
support the Vice Ministry of Economy and Integration to strengthen its capacity to carry out its
functions inorder to negotiate trade andeconomic integration agreements.

b. Tax policv and tax administration: Bank's assistance will include the digitalization of tax
returns and the facilitation of tax collection in selected tax offices. In addition, the Bank will
assist in building the capacity for the preparation of management revenue reports (passive and
active revenue projections with scenarios of policy reforms for the last two years, current year
and next three years) and policy options such as exploration of potential non-tax revenues.
Currently, the IDB i s playing a broader role in this area by providing substantial technical
assistance to implement custom and tax modernization plans. Those plans include the design
and management of a master plan to strengthen the large taxpayer unit and collection and
auditing processesto reduce tax evasion.

c. Budget and Financial Management: Under the new Administration, as an initialstep towards
results-oriented budgeting, the 2004 National Budget was prepared according to specific
objectives, goals and activities. This sub-component will assess and support the development of
basic budget capacities, which would provide the foundation for a results oriented budget
process. Specifically support: (i)         the design and implementation of a pilot budgeting and
evaluation program, including multi-sector and multi-year impact evaluation; (ii)phased
restructuring of budget classifications; (iii)        training for the Ministry of Finance sector budget
negotiations; (iv) evaluation reporting to Congress; and (v) monitoring of program enhancement
agreementsbetween the Ministry of Finance and the responsible sector or executing agency.

Initiativeswould include:
Revision of Budget's regulatory framework and setting the foundation for a results-informed
budget. To introduce a new regulatory framework for budgetary procedures, including phased
restructuring of budget classifications, simple and transparent budget reforms, intra-government
coordination to limit sector budget push to expenditure ceilings, and agreements between the
Legislative Branch, Executive (particularly the Ministry of Finance) and Judicial Branches to
respect expenditure ceilings (including current expenditure ceilings), and the currentlcapital
expenditure rate (securing budget provisions for matching government contribution in cases of
externally-financed projects) during budget preparation and execution. Support methodologies,
procedures and training for the implementation and monitoring of a results-informed budget
would also be implemented inagreedpilot institutions duringfiscal year 2006-2008.

lo "Institutionalized technical support function" refers to a permanent unit, staffed with a small group o f highly
trained professionals, which interact with other technical people from the Ministry and other cabinet ministries,
avoiding duplication of functions and supporting their respective efforts.


                                                         39

Develop and phased implementation of a medium term monitoring and evaluation program. To
this end, the Project will assist in the design of expenditure evaluation methodologies (policies
and procedures), initiate the implementation of multi-sector and multi-year impact evaluations,
and a system to follow up the implementation of a medium term expenditure framework. The
Project will also support training of the personnel and otherwise strengthening of the recently
createdBudget Control Department.

Improve expenditure monitoring. In order to better track government expenditure, a monitoring
system will be developed in coordination with the two entities responsible for the largest portion
of social expenditure, namely the Ministries of Health and Education. This system will provide
up-to-date information of actual budget execution related to set objectives. This will allow the
Government to respond efficiently to the necessarychanges and effectively allocate the resources
to public social services. Moreover, the monitoring system will produce reports on the allocation
and execution of public resources by departments to improve the monitoring of the
Gobernaciones.

Strengthen the relationship with Congress. In order to overcome the weaknesses of the present
budget-approval process, technical assistance will be provided to: (i)                ensure access to the use of
the SIAF's full capacity in the Congress's Budget Offices (Comisio'n Bicameral de Presupuesto
and budget commissions of every chamber), through an agreement between the Ministry and
Congress; (ii) mechanisms where actors can effectively provide timely policy guidance
                support
and inputs during the budget formulation process; (iii)             development and identification of decision
making needs such as custom-made reports and decision making tools (tablero de mando) to
monitor expenditure programs and projects as well as budget execution); and (iv) improve formal
mechanisms for Legislative-Executive discussions of the execution and evaluation of the budget,
including clear linkages between requirements for additional budget funding program and
enhanceddelivery of goods and services.

Moreover, the sub-component will support the financial management reform through the
improvement of the expenditure management system such that budget adjustments and
disbursements are closely linkedto eachother.

Financial Management. Another effort beingcarried out by the Ministry and, more specifically,
the Vice-Ministry of Financial Management, i s the implementation of the new Financial
Administration Law (1535)." In order to fulfill the law's mandate, the Ministry of Finance has
invested in an integrated financial management system (SIAF), operating in the central
administration. This system, which includes a budget execution (SIPP), accounting (SICO) and
treasury (SITE), provides the necessary information system to address the law's requirements.
Also, as an initialstep towards a results-orientedbudgeting, namelythe 2004 NationalBudget was
prepared according to specific objectives, goals and activities. These advances, however, require
importantchanges, particularly inthe budget andaccountingmodels.


l1Another important constraint is one specific law promoted and approvedby Congress, which mandates zero-based
budgeting technique for preparing the budget every year. Moreover, many obstacles to improving financial
management lay outside the Ministry include, among others, the Congress's lengthy and manipulative deliberations
over agency budgets, often leading to substantial, changes intheir levels and content.


                                                        40

Further development i s needed: (i) strengthen the Vice Ministry's capacity in the area of
                                      to
budget moving towards a results-informed budget by analyzing existing procedures, identifying
targeted changes, and providing training to selected agencies; (ii) improve the connections
                                                                     to
between the revenue and the spending sides of Paraguay's fiscal and financial management
which remain weak; (iii)   to achieve better reporting and information sharing between key Vice
Ministries and eliminate the tradition of reporting on ad hoc basis; (iv) to register, confirm, or
reject commitments and thereby control contingent liabilities incurred by spending entities in
SIAF; (v) to link to the existing humanresource management system (SINAFW); (vi) to support
the operation in the sector Ministries through the SIAF system, and (vii) to improve the
registration of public assets inSIC0 to beginpatrimonialaccounting.

The IDB is providing technical assistance focused largely on the expansion of SIAF and
improvement of accounting and treasury systems and processes, while the Bank i s focusing on
budget reform, including the preparation of 2005 budget.

The need for a monitoring and decision-making tool has also been identified as critical. A new
monitoring system will provide the necessary tool to evaluate budget performance. Also, the
Ministry needs to develop a comprehensive database to link and access the relevant
administrative systems: budget and accounting, debt management, asset control, and human
resources. The integrated database would allow real-time reporting and facilitate the creation of
ad-hoc and custom reports that will enhance the decision-making at all levels in government.
Figure 3 presents the key informationsystems of the Ministry.

 The following activities will support expenditure management improvements that will have
immediate budgetary effects:

Design and implementation of decision-making information, medium term fiscal models and
information systems. High-level officials lack the information and systems necessary to support
the decision-making process. Much of the information i s difficult to find, it i s not integrated and
it comes from different departments, thus hampering Ministry's efforts to respond efficiently to
changes in the economic and fiscal environment. These systems will collect information from
other transactional systems such as SIAF and provide decision-makers with, among other things,
consolidated reports and tools for financial managementforecasting.

Integrate revenues, debts and expenditure information. On the revenue side, there i s currently
no information system where information i s integrated. Although internal revenues and customs
functions are being integrated under the same vice-ministry, and their own information systems
have been upgraded, little support has been given to integrate the information of both agencies.
On the expenditure side, the Ministry lacks the flexibility to respond efficiently to unexpected
expenditure needs. Moreover, there i s little integration between revenues and expenditure
information. An integrated system will make it possible to constantly track expenditure and
revenuesduring throughout the fiscal year.

Diagnostic and evaluation of SIAF. This will be done so as to identify the strengths and
weaknesses of the system for a potential upgrade to a web-based infrastructure. It will also



                                                41

identify the needs of municipalities, particularly in the area of revenue, in order to design a
complete financial managementtool.

d. Public debt: To support the creation of a unit in charge of registration and alignment with
accounting practices, monitoringpublic debt, negotiations andriskmanagement.

Strengtheningpublic debt management. This activity will aim at strengthening the capacity of
the Ministry to managepublic debt, including the creation of a Public Debt Unit, actualization of
the SIGADE, training, development of forecasting models, estimates of floating and contingency
debts and risk analysis regardingpublic liabilities.

e. Public investment: Strengthening the Unidad de Coordinacion de Inversion Publica (UCIP) to
produce a multiyear public investment plan and monitoring the execution and evaluation of
projects.

Strengthening the UCIP. This activity will strengthen the Ministry's capacity to analyze and
evaluate investment projects, design multiyear public investment plans, and monitor the
execution andevaluation of Project results.

Component 2 - Business Processes Reengineering and Information Management ($3.27
million)

The Ministry of Finance's current processes and organizational structure is cumbersome and
weak. This is reflected inthe portfolio of the three existing vice-ministries: (i)           the Vice-Ministry
for Financial Administration i s overburdened by being fully responsible for the budget process
and its implementation, including Treasury responsibilities such as current accounts, compliance
with internal norms and procedures, public pensions, public credit and ICT,12 (ii)                     the Vice-
Ministry for Economy and Integration which i s under-utilized, but lacks the professional
capacity to formulate and monitor fiscal, economic, and financial management policies and
systems. Similarly, the Vice-Ministry of Revenues and Taxes has burdensome procedures, poor
coordination mechanisms with Customs and Internal Revenue, and lacks skilled staff for policy
reform, tax collection and auditing. The Administration Department has serious difficulties in
complying with basic contracting and human resources functions. In general, the Ministry's
administrative offices (Procurement, Internal Audit, Abogacia del Tesoro, Cadastre and
Administration) are poorly staffed, lack clear mandates, experience overlap of insufficient and
uncoordinated functions and suffer from an inadequate coordination and communication
mandates.

Moreover, the Ministry of Finance has initiated the consolidation of specific functions and units
without having a plan to review its macro-structure. In addition, there are several new units
being created in the Ministry for a variety of purposes, including: a Unidud de Coordinacion de
Inversion Publica (UCIP), a Transparency and Citizen Participation Unit (UTPC), a


l2Three substantiveareas composethe Ministry of Finance:the Vice Ministry of Financial Administration, the Vice
   Ministry of RevenuesandTaxes and the Vice Ministry for Economy and Integration. Additionally, there are
   currently six supportareas: Abogacia del Tesoro,Auditoria Internal, Administrative Directorate, Minister's
   Cabinet, ServicioNacionalde Catastro (cadastre)and General Secretariat.


                                                     42


Figure 3 Information Systems Ministry of Finance
                                     -

Taxes and Revenues: The largest information systems at the Ministry of Finance are in the areas of
revenue collection, financial management and human resources. The Vice-Ministry of Revenues and
Taxes manages the information systems for taxes and customs which include: (i)tax registry system
                                                                                        a
allows the registration of taxes collected by commercial banks throughout the country; and (ii)      a system,
with limited function, for the management of large taxpayers' accounts (approximately US$3,600). Both
systems need considerable updating and improving in terms of function and technology. Part of this
improvement will be financed by the ongoing Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) Project.

Customs: SOFIA i s the main information system. This i s a reasonably well-developed system that
manages most of the custom process. Currently, the system allows sending customs documentation
through a web-based system. Customs has its own telecommunication network that connects all customs
offices in the country. However, the system of customs and taxes are not linked and are not compatible.
Little (if any) informationconsolidation takes place.

Financial Management: the Vice-Ministry of Financial Management administers the financial
management information system, SIAF. It includes three modules: budget, accounting and treasury,
which are somewhat integrated. The system i s only implemented in the Ministry of Finance, which
receives the financial information from the rest of the central governmental entities through magnetic or
paper files. There i s a specific ITsupport unit for this system. Currently, the system i s being migrated to a
new technology platform. The IDB i s supporting the upgrade of the systemand will finance the expansion
of the system into all central government agencies. The system will reflect in 2004 the changes made
duringthe reformof the budget operation in2003.

HumanResources: the Administrative Directorate manages the HumanResources Management System,
SINARH.Currently, it is mainly a payroll system that enables automatic salary transfers to sixty percent
of the civil servants. The remaining forty percent are still paid by check. However, the NSPA i s taking
over the humanresourcesmanagementfunctions (appointments, promotions, and staff planning), with the
exception of payroll administration, which will stay with the Ministry of Finance. NSPA i s carrying out a
diagnostic of the current payroll system to add the necessary modules for humanresources management.
At the same time, the Secretariat is developing a file tracking system to handle civil servants' claims
against the State. Some of the main actions to be carried out in the area of human resources are (i)        the
clear definition of responsibilities between the NSPA and the Ministry of Finance in managing the
forthcoming shared system, and (ii) strengthening of NSPA's ITunit.
                                      the

System Integration: Some actions to be undertaken regarding these systems include: (i) the         linking
customs and tax systems inorder to provide better andintegrated information for tax payers' managemenl
and profiling; (ii)development of information system for decision-making management; (iii:
development of an efficient system for auditing; and (iv) strengthening the participationof the IT units ir
managementdecisions.

Information Systems Management: Other general areas which could be included in future reforms are
(i) definition of a single IT policy throughout the Ministry; (ii)design of a coordinated or singlt
organizational structure responsible for information and communication technology; (iii)       enhancement o
training programs; (iv) expansion of system to all potential users; (v) integration of the systems; and (vii)
enhancement of the role of the IT management team inthe relevant ITdecision makingprocess.




                                                      44

Key to improved collaboration and information sharing across units, i s a revised human resource
management approach. Presently the incentives within the Ministry of Finance are skewed and
do not support the efficient operation of the Ministry. The Ministry lacks a modem human
resources management system that will allow the introduction of monitoring and evaluation and
en efficient knowledge and resources management. The Project will assist to develop official
terms of reference and profile requirements for core service positions, propose changes in the
salary structures to reflect the responsibilities of the jobs, develop a performance evaluation
system, and provide a systematic training and learning frame~ork.'~For example, the Vice-
Ministry of Economy and Integration and the Internal Audit Office have insufficient human
resources and lack any staff with advanced degrees in economics and other relevant fields.
Isolated training was provided to select civil servants to partially compensate for a very low
remuneration.

Management's discretionary power is also hindering the development of a career civil service.
Rules on remuneration and promotion are not transparent; as a result, civil servants with similar
job descriptions at the same level, can receive different salaries in the same agency up to the
manager's discretion. Further, so-called salary "supplements,"                               usual among higher-level
employees, also distort the system, as they receive bonuses to compensate for overtime work;
this together with other payments (representation, per diem, etc.) can double their pay. Also,
large groups of public employees are compensated under separate regimes (e.g. military
personnel, police, teachers, andjudicial staff).

Inaddition, the Ministry of Finance has encountereddifficulties incorporating all government
staff in an otherwise well designedhuman resourcespayment system (SINARH), which basedon
the 1991civil service census within the state modernization Project, and led to the creation of a
payment system database. Although improvements have been made, far more i s required,
particularly in order to identify public employees and implement a comprehensive human
resources management system. Such improvements are sorely needed, given the large relative
cost of human resources in the budget. Moreover, a successful civil service reform effort i s
critical for improved public expenditure management and fiscal performance. Another key
problem identified in the Ministry i s the lack of professional staff, which currently comprises
only fifteen percent of total Ministry staff. The Ministry has already initiated efforts to address
this issue. Though this Project is insufficientto support afull-fledgedcivil service reform, itwill
help strengthen the degree of professionalization of Ministry of Finance staff, particularly staff
linked to Ministry of Finance's core services.

Regarding internal control, Financial Administration Law 1535 states that "internal control is
formed by the control of instruments, mechanismsand techniques" that will be established by the
pertinent rules. Those regulations have yet to be developed. The internal control comprises of
ex-ante control by the responsible individuals in the Administration and ex-post control by the
Institutional Internal Audit Office and the General Audit Office of the Executive Power.

l3 detailedinthe1997Bankreport"Role oftheState," Paraguayangovemmentinstitutionshavesignificantlydevelopedthe
  As
art of rent seeking. Recruitment practices are largely based on the patronage politics where parties "nominate" those faithful to
the party to public institutions. This contributes to maintaining a working majority of pro-Party votes in the general population;
furthermore it perpetuates strong anti-state reform incentives. Paraguay's public sector lacks a rationalized post classifications or
salary scales that are aligned with job profiles and market-based structures. In 2003, there were over 2,500 job categories for
 153,000 employees inthe central administration.


                                                                45

However, as yet there are no internal control standards inthe Paraguayanpublic sector. The term
internal control i s interpreted by various officials of the Central Administration as synonymous
with internal audit, which is only one element in the structure of internal controls. The lack of
internal control standards i s a concern particularly because of the weaknesses inthe civil service
rules and recent approval of new procurement regulations. Furthermore, insufficient training of
the financial management staff, high management turnover, as well as lack of a rigorous follow
up on general targets and managementindicators, are also aconcern. Non-existingex-post audits
andthe absence of effective penalties make any control systemineffective inthe present setting.
Overall, the internal control environment seems to offer few incentives to achieve the results
expectedfrom the set of specific internal control^.'^

The Internal Control Unit focuses on procurement matters and authorizes requests for budgetary
allocations. Consequently, internal auditors are only performing desk-reviews and have no time
to perform selective audits and undertakeeffective controls, including risk analysis. Ongoing and
a priori reviews of documentary support and budget availability for budget expenditures by the
internal audit departments provide effective assurance to the agencies on the legality of the
expenditures and ensure that any ex-post auditing will be positive. Unfortunately, ex-ante
auditing i s currently acause for corruption.

Finally, the ex-ante approval of expenditures, and the responsibility of ex-post controls create a
conflict of interest and they need to be separated. Ideally, ex-ante approval would be eliminated,
as the budget system and the oversight of the Ministry of Finance over commitments and
expenditures would eliminate the need for such a step. The Auditor General relies on the Audit
Department's Annual Report, which prevents the independenceof the office. Finally, no formal
manual or guidelines exist for the work of audit staff, and the merits and qualifications of staff
are not relevant (Le. takeninto consideration) for appointments. Thus, the audit department does
not provide modern audit standards and confidence inthe department i s low.

The success and sustainability of the reform process requires support for change management
and a communication strategy. The reform of the Ministry of Finance is bound to be a medium
term and often-contested process. Joint participation in, and ownership of, the reform by
different units from the very beginning i s a sine qua non for the success of the reform. The
Project will include support for management of the reform process, including strategic planning,
participatory analysis, pilots, the re-engineering process, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. Change management and communication strategies are essential elements of the
reform, both as tools in the reform process as well as substantive areas in need of reform
them~e1ves.l~The vision and objectives of the transformation program should be shared and
consulted with Ministry of Finance's stakeholders, including citizens, Congress, other
government agencies and other actors.



l4The lawprovidesthattheworkoftheinstitutionalintemalauditors,whoarestaffoftheindividual ministries,besupervisedby
the AGPE, which i s a separate agency reporting to the President. However, this office did not have the resourcesto allocatefor
`'
this supervisionup to this year. The AGPE was generallyuninformedabout the activitiesof the intemalauditors, did not know
their plans, nor did it have any influence on their recruitment, and thus was not in a position to provide any supervision or
 uidanceto them.
  The Ministry of Finance has also requested Bank support -and the Bank has begun to provide advice-                regarding
change management and communication.


                                                             46

To provide the necessary expertise, the Ministry of Finance has requested Bank support for
change management and internal and external communication. As this process needed to be
initiated prior to the other reforms, the Bank beganits assistanceinthose areas through technical
advice and extended Project preparation. It i s also necessary to strengthen the connections
between internal reform, Congress and other government units - particularly in the area of
spending and control. These would be included in subsequent phases of the reform process. In
line with these objectives, this component will provide technical assistance for the diagnosis,
design and implementation, trainingand monitoringo f

a. Change Management: This subcomponent will support a change management program that
will include an organizational climate survey, information strategy for the reform, and the on-
going identification of main stakeholders, including their expectations and priorities, in order to
ensuretheir participation and support and the success of the reform. This subcomponent will also
provide financing to other activities that emphasize inclusion of the Ministry of Finance's units
to buildunderstanding of the reform, ownership, and sustainability.

Support steering committee to lead the reform. This activity will support the work of the high
level-working group formed by the agency's decision makers that will execute the above
activities. The critical success factor will be the commitment and involvement of the Ministry's
top management. Technical assistance will finance workshops, visits, and technical experts in
key areas to provide advice to the Steering Committee so that they may successfully
implementation of the reformprocess.

Create the necessary sense of urgency. It is important to create a sense of urgency among
Ministry of Finance staff regarding the need to have a common vision and goal, as well as to
improve the delivery of institutional services. These achievements serve as a motivation both to
improve the quality of public spending and to improve taxpayer compliance. When people
believe in their organization's overall purpose, they can become agents of change. Building trust
and momentumby disseminating intermediate achievementsis essentialto achieving this goal.

Identify and pre-empt internal resistance to the reform. It is necessary to create mechanisms to
identify formal andinformalresistances, as well as to appeal to stakeholders' interests inorder to
overcome organizational resistance. Interdisciplinary teams bring new knowledge and innovation
to the organization. The change management strategy will ensure that the Ministry's staff fully
participates in the reform process. In this respect, joint staff-consultant teams will be created at
the operational level inorder to create the necessarydegree of internal and external knowledge.

Guaranteethe sustainability of the reform process. Integration of the Ministryof Finance around
common core goals that are jointly monitored and evaluated by all employees i s perhaps the
most powerful incentive to change Ministry of Finance's culture from hierarchical to collegial,
from reactiveto proactive, or from beingintrospective to externally focused, andto guarantee the
reform's sustainability.

Anticipate training demands. Study visits to other public and private organizations that have
recently undertaken similar reforms could serve as a strong motivationfor change. Moreover, the




                                                  47

reform team will identify staff training demands according to the new structure and processes
implementedalong the reformprocess.

b. Process Streamlining: To support the development of the Ministry's own vision, mission and
functions, as well as the strategic actions necessary to increase accountability, efficiency and
improvement of service delivery, this subcomponent will focus on the following activities:

Review and reengineering of key processes in relation to the delivery of core Ministry of Finance
products: This activity will support a micro-reengineering or business reengineering process
aimed at identifying the core processes of the Ministry's key offices. This will include
development of process mapping and reformulation of processes in order to achieve the desired
results and products in fewer steps, using fewer resources and less time. These reengineering
processes will thus lead to greater service efficiency. l6

Restructuring of the organization and its functions: When appropriate, process re-engineering
will lead to changes in the structure, functions and technological requirements of Ministry of
Finance's units and personnel. The Project would support the necessary organizational changes
recommended in the diagnostics, in particular those that are key to the fulfillment of the
Ministry's role.

c. Information Management: Improved access and sharing of information to eliminate data
discrepancies and misinformation. This subcomponent will introduce a shared database for all
units in order to facilitate accurate real time information while improving access control to
prevent unauthorizedchanges and improve monitoringrevenues and expenditures.

Improve informationflows within the Ministry: This activity will aim at adopting a "knowledge
management" function in the Ministry through a specific review of existing information
management practices and operations. It will identify improvement needs in information and
technology, and develop and implement the corresponding reform efforts throughout the
Ministry.

Develop a new IT governance model and ITpolicyfor the Ministry: This activity i s essential for,
and consistent with, the success of the preceding activity (Le. to improve information flows
within the Ministry). Currently, there are 10 IT departments within the Ministry, each with its
own budget and policies regarding procurement and standards. In line with the organizational
reform component, the Ministry will establish a new IT governance model that will aim at
simplifying IT management and setting standards andcommon procedures inthe organization.

d. Human Resources Management Reform: To change the incentive structure of civil servants
within the Ministry and to improve ethic standards and performance, this sub-component will
provide support to:




l6It iscritical that the re-engineering effort is conducted only on the remaining key functions, after the diagnostic
study; it would not make sense to re-design and improve efficiency on processes that should not be part o f the
Ministry's functions or that should be eliminated or moved somewhere else.


                                                          48

Reengineer specific processes and procedures in the area of human resources management. In
close coordination with the organizational reform to be carried out at the Ministerial level,
actions under this activity will include proposals for and implementation of, inter alia,
categorization, eafly retirement, job-rotation policies, performance evaluation practices and other
adequatemeasures.

Promote the incorporation of professional stafs to the Ministries. Produce new guidelines and
incentives in order to increase the number of professionals in the Ministry of Finance, as
currently only 15% of their staff are professionals.

Develop and implement human resources regulations and guidelines. Actions under this activity
will follow-up on the diagnostics carried out under the PHRD and the IDF. Internal regulations
and guidelines will provide an adequateframework for improvedhuman resources management
and the development and implementation of payroll scales for administrative and professional
staff inaccordance with the new civil service career framework.
Upgrade the SINARH system to serve as a new integrated human resource management
information system. This will include, among others, the update and digitalization of civil
servants' history records, added functionality regarding performance evaluations, selection of
staff, and post classification.
Strengthen theAdministrative (Human Resource)Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. Several
diagnostics have identified important weaknesses in the Directorate in charge of human
resources. Actions under this activity will aim at implementing modern human resource
management procedures and providing the Directorate with the necessary training and IT
equipment.
Develop the inte$ace with the financial management system. So far, activities to update the
SINARH have been carried out with little coordination with the financial management
information system (SIAF). This activity will develop the interface between SINARH and SIAF
in order to provide timely and reliable information regarding civil service payroll and related
expenditures.
Design and implement training programs in close cooperation with the Ministry 's functional
areas. The Ministry of Finance currently lacks a program to provide continuous training to its
staff. Under this activity, the Project will support the design and implementation of training
programs in coordination with the functional areas in the Ministry. More specifically, in a first
phase, the activities will focus on the areas of treasury, budget managementand accounting.

e. Improve internal control and auditing. This activity will support the strengthening of control
and audit mechanisms in the Ministry and provide extensive training to internal auditors. It
would aim at strengthening the Ministry's internal auditing unit and institutionalize internal
control standards. This activity will provide support to develop an audit module that will be
integrated inSIAF.




                                                   49

Component 3      - Transparency, Civil Society Participation and Communications ($0.86
million)

This component has two purposes: support anti-corruption efforts by the government and reduce
the risks of discontinuity inpolicy and/or leadership.

Corrupt practices have been identified as a serious obstacle, undermining Paraguay's
development. Lack of efficient internal procedures and regulation, inadequate controls, and an
extended patronage system are some of the areas to consider in reducing the impact of
corruption. Furthermore, access to informationi s very limited andregulated.

For this reason, reducing corruption has become one of the Ministry's main objectives, and civil
society has been identifiedas critical inthis task. Inorder to address this, the Ministry of Finance
has signed memorandums of understanding with several civil society organizations so as to
enhance their participation in the government's monitoring. Moreover, a Transparency and
CitizenParticipation Unit (UTPC) has beenrecently createdto improve the internal, external and
transparencechannels.

The Ministry's anti-corruption agenda has been framed by the National Integrity Plan (PNI),
which contains the transparency andintegrity strategy. This planaims to promote the integrity of
the public sector and its staff, providing instruments to monitor and evaluate public sector
performance, and with a strong emphasis on the role of civil society in these activities. CISNI
hasbeen designatedas the mainagency to carry out the activities under the plan.

The National Integrity Plan includes five main actions: (i)    monitoring and coordination of the
PNI; (ii) dissemination of monitoring results; (iii)   provision of training; (iv) supporting the
development of innovative initiatives for the promotionof public integrity; and (v) developing of
a sustainablestrategy of CISNI andthe activities under the PNI.

Due to the key role of the MoF within the public sector, CISNI signed an agreement with the
MoF to focus on the following areas: (i)    monitoring of public service delivery by the MoF; (ii)
development of informationand communication channels between the Ministry and citizens; (iii)
design a set of indicators to measureperformance and satisfaction levels; (iv) define resources to
enhance the Ministry's performance; (v) set baselines for the Ministry's performance and
transparencylevels; and (vi) improve functionality of the Ministry's portal.

This Ministry has strongly supported this component and ensuring the integration and
strengthening the role of external actors in the reform program. Communication, internal and
external to the Ministry, i s a guarantee of sustainability of the Project. Moreover, since the
Minister of Finance considers the fight against corruption and efforts to improve professional
ethics a major and critical challenge, this component will support:

a. Tranwarencv: The Ministry of Finance has created an independent Transparency and Citizen
Participation Unit (UTPC) which will provide checks and balances and monitor civil servants
behavior. This sub-component will assist the UTPC in the implementation of changes such as
the:



                                                 50

Drafting and adoption of an institutional Ethics Code. The Ethics Code will provide a
framework under which Ministry staff will be expected to carry out their responsibilities. Staff
will be trained and seminars will be developed in order to communicate their responsibilities to
them.

Development and implementation of an access to information policy. An access to information
policy will be developed andimplemented and will include the publication of budgets, contracts,
appointments, salaries, disbursements and other internal activities of the Ministry. Publication
will beboth inelectronic and inprinted form.

Development and implementation of norms and standards regarding citizens' interaction with
the Ministry. A policy will be developed and implemented in order to standardize, regulate, and
facilitate access by individuals to informationon the status of their petitions to Ministry offices,
thereby improving public service and reducing opportunities for corruption.

Establishment and operation of a citizens' information center (centro de atencidn a1 ciudadano).
The center will receive complaints and oversee their follow-up; it will also provide general
guidance to citizens on how to accesshe Ministry services and support the Ministry and its
TransparencyUnitinidentifyingrecurrent problems.

Design and implementation of an asset disclosure mechanism. This mechanism will be
implemented for higher level staff andreviewed periodically inorder to detect illicit enrichment.

b. Civil Societv Particbation: To strengthen civil society's role in the government's reform
agenda andcreate communication channels to evaluate and further discuss reforms andprogress,
this subcomponentwill support the:

Design and implementation of mechanismsfor citizen monitoring and evaluation of Ministry's
activities. Citizen monitoringwill focus on the implementation of the Ministry's proposal andthe
mechanismsincludedinthe Inter-American Convention against Corruption.

Provision of educational material and programs. This activity will help interested groups and
individuals' access and interpret information published by the Ministry. It will include actions to
strengthenthe role of the media inmonitoringMinistry programs.                              *

Organization of public forums for discussion of Ministry progress. This will allow for the
submission of citizen proposals for further improvements, creation of coordination mechanisms
among civil society organizations, professional and business associations, researchinstitutes and
universities and others working in this area. In other words, to make the process more
participatory, three forums will be developed in Gobernaciones.

c. Communications: The Ministry of Finance will undertake an internal and external
communication program and educational campaign to inform its employees and citizens of its
role and its reformprogram. Activities under this subcomponent will include:




                                                51

Carry out of a communication program to inform civil servants and the public about the
importance of fiscal discipline, pedormance monitoring, and linkage between expenditures and
outputs. This activity will give particular emphasis to fiscal discipline and the links between
expenditures and outputs, performance monitoring, the responsibilities of civil servants and
citizens' rights to good service, the damages wrought by inefficiencies and corruption, citizens'
duties to pay taxes and fees, and the Ministry's efforts to improve the quality of public
expenditures as a way of maximizing the public good. The campaign will also target ministries
and agencies aiming at eliminating inefficiencies and promoting coordination throughout the
public sector. Budget reports will be prepared, customized to every civil society group, thereby
inviting public discussion and the involvement of civil society in monitoring the relationship
betweenbudget execution andservice performance.

Design and implementation of a tax campaign to increase tax collection and reduce tax evasion.
This sub-component will focus on tax collection and reducing tax evasion, as tax evasion
undermines the implementation of government's social policies and public service delivery. In
addition to explaining how resources are allocated and used, and providing information through
the SIAF system, the Ministry of Finance will design and implement an educational program,
including the design of a lottery program to promote the importance of paying taxes for
country's development. The program will be carried out with the collaboration and participation
of civil society organizations and citizens to cover primary and secondary schools andthe private
sector.

Component 4 Project Management ($0.86 million)
                -
a. Project management: The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance through the
PCU. The PCU will provide support to the Ministry of Finance in designing, implementing and
monitoring policies and institutional reforms. The Project will finance technical assistance,
training, a limited amount of hardware and software, and a portionof the professional staff of the
PCU. Government resourceswould finance infrastructure and logistics expenses.

The PCU, principal unit overseeing the design and implementation of the program, will be
headed by a National Director and staffed by nationals with relevant experiences in the field.
The PCU will be responsible for administration of Project funds, monitoring and reporting, and
contracting procedures.

The PCU will be responsible for, among other things, working closely with the reform program's
Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is responsible for approving and monitoring
structural changes to transform the Ministry and, therefore, drawing the strategic plan
(definiciones estratbgicas) and critical path of the reform, approving individual reform projects,
ensuring financing for the reform process and signing and monitoring result agreements with
individual units, the Secretariat of Public Administration in the redesign of the National System
of Human Resources (SINARH) and Ministry of Finance's Departments on issues related to
implementing administrative and financial managementsystems.

b. Project audit: The Project will provide technical assistanceto the Borrower to enable it to
comply with its annual audit obligation.



                                                 52

                                    Annex 5: Project Costs
                   Paraguay    - Strengthening ofthe Ministry of Finance



Project Cost By Component andor Activity               Local        Foreign      Total
                                                     US $million U S $million U S $million

A. Improvement of Core Products                          1.30         1.73        3.03
B.BusinessProcesses Reengineering and                    1.50         1.53        3.03
InformationManagement
C. Transparency, Civil Society Participation and         0.52         0.33        0.85
Communications
D.Project Management                                     0.58         0.28        0.86


 Total Baseline Cost                                     3.90         3.87        7.77
 Physical Contingencies                                  0.22         0.02        0.24
 Price Contingencies                                     0.22         0.03        0.25
                               Total Project Costs'      4.34         3.92        8.26
                        Interest duringconstruction
                                      Front-endFee       0            0.04         0.04
                        Total Financing Required         4.34         3.96        8.30




                                               53

                            Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                 Paraguay   - Strengthening  of the Ministry of Finance Project

Proiect Implementation and Coordination:

The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will provide support to the Ministry of Finance to design,
implement and monitor the policy andinstitutional reform.

The World Bank loan of $7.5 million will finance an estimated 90 percent of the total Project
cost of $8.31 million. The loan will be used a limited amount of hardware and software, and
professional staff for the PCU. Consultant services, training and the purchase of computer
software and related information technology items will be major focus of the Project.
Government resources will finance infrastructure and logisticalexpenses.

A PCU within the Ministry of Finance will be the principal unit overseeing the design and
implementation of the program. The PCU would be headedby a National Director and staffed
by nationals with relevant experiences to finance training in the field.     The PCU will be
responsible for the coordination of the Public Administration (Funcio'nPublica) in the redesign
of the National System of Human Resources (SINARH). The PCU will be responsible for
administration of Project funds, monitoringand reporting, and contracting procedures.

FinancialManagement

A Financial Management (FM) review of the proposedarrangements was performed inline with
the guidelines issuedby the FinancialManagement (FM) Boardon June 30,2001 and revised on
October 1, 2003 to determine if the financial management arrangements are acceptable to the
Bank. A financial management assessment report (FMAR) i s included in Annex 7. A summary
of the conclusion i s included below.

The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) through the same unit that
implemented the PHRD grant for Project preparation. This PCU will provide support to the
Ministry of Finance inProject implementation andwill be responsible for Financial Management
of the Project.

The conclusion of the assessment is that the proposed financial management arrangements are
adequate and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MoF i s considered capable of
satisfactorily recording all transactions and balances, supporting the preparation of regular and
reliable financial statements, safeguarding the Project's assets and are subject to auditing
arrangementsacceptable to the Bank.

The Project will rely on some country systems for implementation. For this operation the
accounting module of the Government Integrated FinancialManagement System (SICO) will be
usedfor Project accounting. All projects transactions will be kept inthe Government accounting
system. For disbursement purposes, report basedreplenishments to the Special Account will be
used with forecasted expenditures based on Project's budget allotment and budget credit
allocation.


                                                54

Financial Flows. The draft accounting and financial flows for the Project are described in detail
in Annex 7. The financial flows will comprise mainly o f (i) payments from the Loan
                                                                  direct
account for Project activities of significant size; and (ii)
                                                          direct payments from Special Account of
smaller transaction through an operative account in Guaranies located in the National Bank
(Banco Nacional de Foment0 - BNF). Reimbursement to the Special Account will be made on
FMRs' report based mechanism with forecasted expenditures in line with Government budget
allotments for eachquarter.

Audit Arrangements. The audit would include both the Project annual financial statements and
special opinion on the quarterly justification of expenditures, This audit will be carried out by an
independent auditor, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, andthe audit report will be
sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit will be performed
using international auditing standards. The fiscal year is coincident with the calendar year
(January 1, to December 31).

Financial ManagementIssues

In 2004, the Bank conducted a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) jointly
with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and concluded that Paraguay's financial
accountability arrangements are failing to support public expenditure outcomes. The CFAA
identifies the lack of adequateParaguay's Public FinancialSystem as its mainweakness       .

The CFAA states as the most important weaknesses and shortcomings that threaten financial
accountability inParaguay are:

    1. Weak control environment
    2. Numerous and serious exceptions in the application of the financial administration law
        and regulations.
    3. Weak internal audit and control, especially inrevenue collection agencies.
    4. The disproportionate share of time and resources that the Auditor General devotes to
        request for ad hoc reviews.
    5. Congressional introduction of budget increases without provision for corresponding
        financing.
    6. Trade liabilities incurred by execution agencies but unrecorded if they exceed the
        authorized cashprogram.
    7. Many exceptions to generally acceptedaccounting standards and financial statements not
        preparedincompliance with Government's own regulations.

The CFAA also states that the Bank's experience with financial management in investment
operations raises issues. All four active projects in the portfolio were rated satisfactory with
respect to Development Objectives. However, the Natural ResourceManagement Project i s rated
unsatisfactory for Implementation Progress because the audit reports raised evidence of
accounting irregularities and there i s evidence of fraud in presentation of expenditures in the
Asuncion Sewerage(Modernization of the State Component).




                                                   55

Risks. From a financial managementperspective,the Project is considered a high risk operation,
due to country considerations. The proposed mitigation measures and supervision plan are designedto
handle the identified risks.A detailed risk assessment i s included inthe Annex 7.




                                                  56

              Annex 7: Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                 Paraguay   - Strengtheningof   the Ministry of FinanceProject

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

An assessment of the proposed financial management system for this Project was carried out
during December 2004 and January 2005. The objective of the assessment was to determine
whether the systems (accounting, financial reporting, internal controls, auditing and staffing) can
be relied on to ensure: (i) that the funds are used only for the intended purposes in an efficient
andeffective manner; (ii) produce accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports; and
                           to
(iii)safeguardtheentities'assets.
    to

The assessment was performed in accordancewith OPBP 10.02, the Guidelines to Staff for the
Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-Financed Projects (dated
June 30,2001 andrevised on October 1,2003) and the Financial MonitoringReports: Guidelines
to Staff dated November 30,2001.

The Project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) of the Government of
Paraguay (GOP) through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU); it i s the same PCU that
implemented the PHRD grant for Project preparation.

PCU will be responsible for FM aspects of Project implementation including payments,
disbursements, accounting and reporting. The assets to be procured during the Project will be
directly delivered to the MOF and recorded inits asset registry.

The assessment has taken into account the PCU's experience in implementing other multilateral
financed projects; as well as the PHRD grant for Project preparation.

It has been concluded that the proposed FMarrangements and the action plan for completion of
the FM arrangements at the time of this assessment i s satisfactory and sufficient capacity and
resourcesare available to implement it.

The PCU has been implementing an IDB financed project (1143/OC-FR $ 5 million dollars), an
UNDPproject (PAR/03/022 1.47 million dollars), as well as the PHRDgrant for the preparation
of this Project, and has gained experience with the multilateral agency's andthe Bank's financial
management and disbursement procedures.

An operative manual has been already adopted for the implementation of the PHRD Grant and
will be adjustedfor this Project.

Uses of loan funds comprise payments to suppliers of all components grouped incategories.

All uses of funds will be processed and supported by external third party documentary evidence
andthe related goods and services will be procured inline with Bank guidelines.   `




                                                57

Country Issues

The Paraguay Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), March 2004, and the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), November 2003, outlines             the country's governance
challenges and institutionalweaknesses.


Regarding Paraguay`s background, the CFAA states:

"The Bank's Initiating Memorandum for the Paraguay CAS 2002 update captures vividly the
country's poor reputation for governance and institutional weakness: It states, "Paraguay i s
renowned for pervasive corruption and contraband..     .. Transparency International consistently
ranks Paraguay among the ten most corrupt nations.. ..While public entities do not dominate the
economy, they nevertheless occupy important segments, including electricity, telephone, water,
cement and oil import companies as well as the social security (pension and health) system and
the national university. Aside from the employment these entities provide (about one-third of
total public sector), they provide the opportunity for corruption, mainly through the widespread
abuse of public procurement, false billing andpoor internal controls."

"Corruption i s not the only institutional weakness in Paraguay. The basic management systems
of government are also weak or non-existent. Within the central administration, the personnel
management systemis in an embryonic stage and i s only now pullingtogether a master roster of
all civil servants. A much larger task i s to embark on the professionalization of the civil service,
including competitive entrance exams, career streaming and training."

The CFAA states that the most important weaknesses and shortcomings threatening financial
accountability inParaguay include:

    8. Weak controlenvironment
    9. Numerous and serious exceptions in the application of the financial administration law
        and regulations
    10.Weak internalaudit and control, especially inrevenuecollection agencies
    11.The disproportionate share of time and resources that the Auditor General devotes to ad
        hoc reviews requests
    12. Congressional introduction of budget increases without provision for corresponding
        financing
    13. Trade liabilities incurred by execution agencies but unrecorded if they exceed the
        authorized cashprogram
    14. Many exceptions to generally acceptedaccounting standards and financial statements not
        preparedincompliance with Government's own regulations

The CFAA concludes that both inherent and control risks are high, and goes on to state that the
advances made in the modernization of the Paraguay's PFM system do not compensate for the
deficient control environment.




                                                 58

It is also worth noting, as per the portfolio review carried out on October 2, 2003, that the main
general issues affecting portfolio implementation are: (i) turnover of staff at the Project
                                                                 high
Units; (ii) of timely and adequate availability of counterpart funds; (iii)
             lack                                                                           cumbersome
procedures for the flow of funds to projects; (iv) delays ineffectiveness and Project start-up; and
(v) limited disbursementcapacity and limitedknowledge of Bankprocedures.

Actions to address the aforementioned issues have been agreed to at portfolio level, and are
under implementation. These issues have also been taken into account in the preparation of this
Project.

As part of Project preparation, specific training on FM operational policies and procedures was
given to PCU's administrative staff.

RiskAnalysis

Given the prevalence of corrupt practices and administrative lapses reported by the control
entities and independent surveys, it i s clear that the attitude toward control i s weak and the
inherent risk i s high. The mitigation measures are designed address the identified risks. A
detailed risk assessment i s provided inthe FMAR.

Strengthsand Weaknesses

Strengths: the PCU has experienced staff and has a background of compliance in projects
financed by other multilateralinstitutions.

Weaknesses:       The various country issues raised above (e.g. lack of control mechanisms,
implementation capacity etc), as well as the range of components to be implemented throughout
the different units of the MOF, may leadto difficulty infollow up. This inthe primary weakness
of the Project's financial management.


Weaknesses                            Resolution

Weak control environment            *Project transactions will be recorded in the government's accounting
                                        system and subject to Government controls (budgetary, internal audit)
                                        andexternal auditors.
                                    *FMR based replenishments with Special Account reconciliation certified
                                        by auditors.
                                    *Continuous external auditors' engagement under specific Terms of
                                        Reference.
                                     *Project execution will be subject to application of the financial
                                        administration law and other regulations.
 Different government areas involved *Centralization of ProjectFMinPCU.
 inProject execution.




                                                     59

ProjectFinancialStatementAudit Arrangements

The Project will contract an annual Project financial statement audit under Terms of Reference
prepared in line with Bank Guidelines to be performed by independent auditor acceptable to the
Bank. The audit will cover all fundingand expenditures reported inProject's financial statements
and the review of the quarterly FMRsfor disbursementpurposes.

Flow of funds

The Project's flow of funds is in line with Paraguay's Government regulations on multilateral
financing, and will establish a Special Account (SA) managed by MOF in the Central Bank of
Paraguay (BCP). Fundsfrom the SA will be transferred as expensesare incurred and only for the
expenditures amount to a second tier account, or operative account (OA) in guaranies in the
Banco Nacional de Foment0 (BNF) managed by PCU where local counterpart funds are
deposited as well. The transfers from BCP to BNF accounts are recorded in the Government's
SIAF through a requestfor transfer (STR- Solicitudde Transferencia) for eachpayment.

Opening a Bank account inlocalcurrency i s a commonfeature among Bank financed projects in
the regionbecause it facilitates funds management and control of payments.

From the operative account, the PCU will make the payments to suppliers for works, goods and
services provided. All paymentswill be recorded inthe SIAF system.



                                    Flow of Funds



                                            Directpayments
                                                    in$


                                               -....."..... .....-......_......."............
                                                           -              .....
                                                          I              I            I




                                              i              Local
                                                       Counterpart                         j
                                              IL"."          Funds
                                                    __....._ ""..."*......."...""..,
                                                          (ThroughSTR)
                                                            "..._.......                   f




                                                             at BNF
                                                             (managedby PCU)
                                       Fnente20




                                                     60

Both accounts are subject to Government control, includingtransfers from the SA to the OA and
payments to the suppliers are both under budgetary allocations, as well as monthly budgetary
allocations or "Plan de Caja" and requests for transfers (Solicitud de Transferencia de Recursos-
STR).

DisbursementArrangements

Loanproceeds would be disbursed against the expenditure categories:




     2. Goods                                    1.52                       97 %
     3. ConsultingServices                       3.79                       97 %
     4. ProjectAudits                            0.12                       97%
     4. Training                                 1.38                      100%
     5. Unallocated                              0.46          I                             I

Disbursements will be made on the basis requests for replenishments of the SA, which will be
informed by FMRs (Financial monitoring Reports) and Direct Withdrawal Applications
(DWAs). Inthe latter case, disbursements will be madeon the basis of full documentation for all
expenditures made under contracts requiring prior review by the Bank, and contracts whose
value will be raised above the prior review limits as a result of amendments.

Use Report-based Disbursements: withdrawals of loan proceeds will be made using Report-
based Disbursements. The Bank will deposit into the Special Account the amount, required to
finance Project's forecastedexpenditures for the next two reporting periods tie. six months).

During Project implementation, in order to use report-based disbursement the PCU must: (a)
sustain satisfactory financial management ratings during Project supervision; (b) submit
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) consistent with the agreed form and content within 45
days of the end of eachreporting period; and (c) submit a Project Audit Report by the due date.

All consolidated expenditure documentation will be maintained by the PCUfor post-review and
audit purposesfor up to one year after the final withdrawal from the loan account.

Disbursement requestsshouldbe sent to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The FMR will account on
the forecasted expenditures in line with the budget allotment for the next quarter and will be
adjustedinevery disbursement request.

The Project will request access to Bank's Client Connection webpage to get the 1903 Formfrom
the web and to perform on a periodic basis the reconciliation processbetween their bank account
and the resourcesreceived from the different sources.



                                                 61

 Accountingand reporting

 PCU will be responsible for keeping accounting records of the Project; accrual accounting will
 be used following international accounting standards. Transactions will be primarily recorded in
 the accounting module of the SIAF, SICO, and complemented with ad hoc systems to keep
 records on Project procurement processesandassets ledger.

 The PCUwill issue annual Project financial statements preparedfrom the SICO records and will
 also produce quarterly Financial MonitoringReports (FMRs) which include:

 1.Source andUses of Funds,for eachquarterandcumulative (uses by category).
 2. Uses of Fundsby Project Component Activity.
 3. Physical Progress Report for eachquarter by Project Component Activity.

 FMRsformat will bepartof the Project operational manual.

 Staffing

 PCU i s adequately staffed for the Project's financial management. A review of PCU's current
 staffing and organization determined that they are qualified for the position they occupied and
 that there i s an adequate segregationof dutieswithin PCU.

 ActionPlan

 Steps finalized during Project preparation and early Project preparation for financial
 managementarrangements are reflected inthe following action plan:

  Action                                          ResponsibleEntity     1Estimated Completion Date
  Project Operational Manual for         Project MOF
                                                II                      IBefore effectiveness
  adjustedand acceptableto the Bank
  Chart of accounts                               MOF                    Before effectiveness
  FMRs format acceptable to the Bank              MOF                    Before effectiveness
  Project audit terms of reference acceptable to MOF                     Before effectiveness



 SupervisionPlan
 Type             I                 I                                   Objective
 Visit            I Timing
                    General         I Mechanismsupervision
                                      Integrating          missions atII  +   Review FMsystem.
                    Supervision:      least one time each semester.       +   Supervise    Special    Account
                   every      fourth Others separately.                       Reconciliation. Use of funds.
                    months.                                              t    Follow up on External Auditors
                                                                              recommendations1raised issues.
                                                                         t    Review staffing.
 FMR Review         Quarterly         Over the FMRs submitted to the     t    Review      FMR     information
~




1                                     Bank.                                   consistency.
                                                                          t   Raise issuesdisclosedinFMR.
 Audit Review       Once a Year       Over the Audit Reports submitted    t   Review Audit Report.
                                      to the Bank                         t   Raise issues disclosed in Audit




                                                       62

                               Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                  Paraguay   - Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance Project

A. General

Procurement for the proposedProject would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and the
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The general description of various
items under different expenditure category i s described below. For each contract to be financed
by the Loan, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time-frame would be agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank Project team in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement
Planwill be submitted by the Borrower at Appraisal and updated at least annually or as required
to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

Procurement of Goods: The Project includes the supply of an estimated $1.52 million of goods,
which represents 20% of the total Project cost, and consisting in information equipment and
software (15.6 %) and furniture, office equipment and consumables (4.4%). The Borrower has
agreed with the mission to design the packaging of the information equipment and software
mostly as ICBs, and in selected cases as NCBs. The remaining 6.5 % will be mostly arranged as
shopping packages.

Procurement of Works: Project works are estimated at $0.19 million, representing 2.5 % of the
total Project cost, and consists of minor office reform works and safety and control installations.
These works would be mostly contracted by shopping.

Selection of Consultants: The Project includes consultant assignments with a total cost
estimated at $3.79 million, which represents 52% of the total Project cost. About 47% of this
amount will consist of contracts with consultant firms, selected mostly under QCBS, and the
remaining 53%, would be contracts with individual consultants, selected on the basis of
consultants qualifications.

Non-consultantServices: The Project includes about $1.37 million of services which are mostly
related to training, and include travel costs.

(Some of the contracts for consultants represent the support to the PCU, and of non-consultant
services includes operational costs. The Borrower i s going to group the corresponding expenses
as incremental operational costs.)




                                                 63

B. Assessmentof the Agency's Capacityto ImplementProcurement.

Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination Unit -PCU of the
Ministry. This unit counts on two procurement officers, with experience of dealing with Bank-
financed procurement limited to the required for Project preparation.

An assessment of the capacity of the implementing agency to implement procurement actions for
the Project has been carried out by a Procurement Specialist Consultant on November 29-30,
2004. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the Project andthe
interaction between the Project's staff responsible for procurement and the central unit for
administration and finance.

The following set of actions/recommendations results from the analysis made. All these actions,
which have been preliminarily agreed with the Borrower, were confirmed during Loan
Negotiations, and are part of the Project documents and would be completed according the time-
frame indicated inthe table below.

  Description                    Objective                       Time-frame
  ProcurementPlaflackaging       Identify eventstwork flow       Appraisal
  OperationalManual              Define operationalrules         Negotiations
  Project Launch Seminar         Traiddisseminate rules          Prior to disbursement
  Appoint proc. Specialistfor a  Cope with initialwork load      Effectiveness
  year
  ProcurementEx-Post Reviews    ISupervision                   I Every implementation year

The Bank will prior review the procurement plan, all ICBs, all direct contracting, the first two
NCB for goods and the first shopping proceduresof goods and works. As regardingservices, all
QCBSs and the first two contracts for non consultant services, with firms, and the first two
contracts, equivalents to US$50,000 and above, for individualconsultants.

C. ProcurementPlan.

The Borrower submitted at appraisal a Procurement Plan for Project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This planwas agreedbetween the Borrower and
the Project Team at Loan Negotiations. It is available inthe Project's databaseand in the Bank's
external website. The procurement plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual Project implementation needs and improvements in
institutionalcapacity.




                                                    64

                Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1

                               Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
  Expenditure Category           Threshold             Procurement            Prior Review
                               (US$ thousands)            Method             (US$ millions)

 1.Works                      Morethan 50,000           Shopping           Firsttwo Contracts

 2. Goods                      Morethan 250                ICB                    All

                                Less than 250             NCB              Firsttwo contracts

                                Less than 25            Shopping           Firsttwo contracts
 +Rental    of training
 facilities and equipment                               Shopping

 3. Services
 Firms                         Morethan 100               QBCS                     All

                                                  Single Source Se,dction          All

 Individuals                Equiv. or morethan 50           CQ                     All




D. FrequencyofProcurement Supervision.

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment of the Implement Agency has recommended annual supervision missions to visit the
field to carry out post review of procurement actions.

Attachment 1

Details of the ProcurementArrangements Involving International Competition.

    1.         Goods and Works andnon consulting services.

               (a) Listof contract packages which will be procuredfollowing ICB andDirect
                   Contracting: (1)


                            Est.Cost      Proc               Domestic     Review    Expected
Ref No.          Contract     USD       Method      PQ      Preference                 Bid
                                                                         by Bank        enin
               Information

    Ool        equipment
               and           970,100      ICB                   No        Prior      Dec 05

               software



                                                 65

       (b) ICBcontractsto cost aboveUS$250.000 per contract and all Direct Contracting
           will be subjectto prior review by the Bank.

 2.    Consulting Services.

       (a) List of Consulting Assignments with a short-list of international firms.

                                                          Review by        Expected
Ref No.      Assignment          Est.Cost     Selection
                                    USD        Method    Bank (prior       Proposals
                                                            or post)      Submission
        Design, implement
 001    and evaluatemedium
        term economic and          117,700     QCBS          prior           Dec 05
        fiscal uolicies
        Settingthe
 002    foundation of a
        results-informed           246.5 00    QCBS          prior           Nov 05
        budnet
        Restructuring
        organization,
 003    functions and              450,000     QCBS          prior           Feb 06
        reengineering key
                                                       I                 I
        urocesses.
        Civil Service system
 004    career                     290,000     QcBs           prior          Mar06
        implementation


       (b) Consultancy services to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and Single Source
           selection of consultants (firms)     and assignments for individuals to cost
           US$50.000and above will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

       (c) Short-lists composedentirely of national consultants: Short-lists of consultants for
           services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be
           composedentirely of national consultants inaccordancewith the provisions of the
           paragraph2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                            66

                            Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                  Paraguay    - Strengthening of  the Ministry of Finance Project

The proposed operation will provide assistance to increasing the quality and number of core
products provided by the Ministry of Finance, improve efficiency through re-organization and
changes in human resource management, and increase transparency of its operations.
Quantifying the benefits of such an operation i s difficult, and assigning a monetary value to the
rate of return or cost and benefits is not feasible. However, the Project aims at implementing the
key recommendations of the recent CAS, CFAA and CAFR, allowing to quantify outputs of this
operation.

The general framework of the Ministry of Finance i s in line and up-to-date compared to other
MOFs. However, even though on paper the structure seems adequate, the implementation i s
insufficient and creates problems during the daily operations. Among others are: (i) of on-
                                                                                         lack
time delivery of key products at an adequate quality, (ii)       ineffective and inefficient budget
process and implementation, (iii)    insufficient internal controls and mechanisms, (iv) deficient
accounting system, (v) lack of a transparent cash, disbursement and debt management systems,
and insufficientevaluation and external oversight. Inaddition the Ministry requires an upgrading
of the basic statistical systemsinorder work with reliable data.

Though the institutional and legal framework under which the Ministry of Ministry of Finance
operates is up-to-date and generally adequate, the Government is lagging behind in
implementing the changes into its daily operations. The most serious cases include: (i)         an
ineffective andinefficient budget process; (ii)  a deficient and fragmented accounting system; (iii)
insufficient internal controls; (iv) a lack of transparent cash management and disbursement
systems; (v) uncontrolled public debt creation; and (vi) insufficient evaluation and external
control. Inaddition the operation would tighten the accountability of the civil servants within the
Ministry of Finance through changes in the civil service rules within the Ministry, and
strengthening of the Ministry's statistical capacity.

Quantifying the savings to be achieved by the proposed operation i s not possible due to
inadequate benchmarks and data on the present costs and losses in the system. The proposed
operation would generate three different types of savings:

        (a) Improved control of disbursements due to changes in the accounting system and
            procurement rules which would lead to immediate savings in all sectors. These
            changes would eliminate the possibility of hiddencommitments of the implementing
            agencies, andforce the departmentsto linkexpenditures to budget codes.

        (b) Inthe medium term it would achievebetter internal control, auditing and evaluation,
            as well as improved statistical capacity, that will enable the Ministry to detect and
            eliminate waste, and improve revenue collection. Present losses seem to be
            significant due to inability of the Ministry to audit any but largest taxpayers in the
            country. The operation will enable the Government to crosscheck information for
            consistency due to better data sharing and statistical capacity, and will enable the
            government to improvethe VAT collection, Customs, andIncome Tax.


                                                  67

         (c) In the long run, the changes will lead to a medium term budget framework, which
             will reduce the dependence on external borrowing and provide results based
            budgeting inthe service sectors.

         (d) Finally the operation will enable the Ministry of Finance to prepare key reports on a
            regular basis that allow an effective forecasting and improved policy making.

Institutional modernization will reduce the government's operating costs and improve the
delivery o f public services to businesses and the public at large. The fiscal impact of improved
resource allocations, reduced waste, moreover, better planningand execution may be significant,
as efficiency gains translate into reduced administrative costs for a given level o f output. These
inturn will contribute to abetter investment climate, which is essential for Paraguay's long-term
economic growth, the reduction of unemployment, and the improvement o f critical social
conditions. However, on the bottom line the expenditures of the Ministry directly might not
change as a shift to higher qualified and more efficient, but better paidcivil servants might take
place.

The cost effectiveness of the components i s discussed inthe following table:

    Components And                                                          Expected Social Gains
     Subcomponents
 Component1
 Improvement of Core
 Products
 1.1EconomicAnd
 Fiscal Policy
                                                                              ~~~~      ~~
 Skills and procedures    -   Mediumterm            -  Reduction of         -      Improved
 for amediumterm              savings                  internal shocks             investmentclimate
 macroeconomic                                      -  Alleviation of       -      More stable
 framework and fiscal                                  external shocks due         employment
 discipline                                            to better planning
 Developing sector        -   Mediumterm            -  Improved services    -      Improvedhealth
 planningand                  savingsdue to            and sector                  andeducation
 evaluation skills            control and              development reduce   -      Increased
                              elimination of           cost of business            employment
                              ineffective           -  Improved social      -      Improved social
                              programs                 policies                    services inline
                                                                                   with poverty
                                                                                   reduction
                                                                                   obiectives
 Capacitybuildingin       -   Efficiency gains due -   Improved             -      Reducednegative
 statistics                   to coordinateddata       forecasting and             effects inpolicy
                              management               policies will               changes
                                                       negativeexternal
                                                       effects of policy
                                                       changes




                                                  68

  ComponentsAnd        Possible Fiscal Impact   Expected Economic     Expected Social Gains

                       -                              Gains
                          Higher tax revenues  - More equitable       - Equitable impact
tax policy, including                            taxation               of taxes and fees
tax administration                             - Reductionof
policies                                         externalities due to
                                                 taxation
Capacity to manage     -  Lower interest       - Tax reductionand/    -  Improved
government borrowing      payments due to        or improved             infrastructure and
and investments           reductionof short      services                service delivery

                       -  term debt
                          Lower investment
                          costs due to better
                          planning
1.2Budget
Management
Results oriented       Savings inthe following - Economic gains due   -  Improved service
budget duringfiscal    areas:                    to improved quality     delivery
year 2006-2009         -  Definitionof results   of services and      -  Improvedhealth
                          improves               investments          -  Higher education
                          government           - Improved planning       standards
                          capacity to monitor    andimplementation
                          andevaluate sector     according to needs
                          ministries
                       -  Improvedbudget
                          planning and
                          imdementation
                       -  Savings due to more -  More targeted        -  Improved civic
programevaluation         responsible            programs inthe          engagement and
system                    spending and           mediumrunto             participationinthe
                          behavior of            improvethe              policy dialogue
                          implementing           macroeconomic           due to evaluation
                          agencies               framework and            of programs
                       -  Budgetary               provide abetter
                          consequencesfor         investment climate
                          ineffective
                          programs
Design of a medium     -  Fiscal stability     -  Improved
term expenditure                                  macroeconomic
framework                                         stability
1.3 Financial
ManagementAnd
Administrative
Reform
Procurement reform     -   Savings due to less -  Increased               Improved business
                           waste and              competition and         climate for new
                           corruption             transparency            commnies
SURE, SIAF, SIRAH,     -   Cost reductiondue   -  Increasein              Investments in
HR management             to improved             economic returns on     priority areas
                           management of          investments



                                              69

L  ComponentsAnd      Possible Fiscal Impact   Expected Economic    Expected Social Gains
   Subcom onents                                     Gains
                        resources and                                  of service delivery
                        investments                                -   Increased
                                                                       accountability of
                                                                       civil servants
Internal auditingunit - Savings due to        . Deterrents offraud  -  Improvedservice
and controlling         higher compliance       andcorruption          delivery
capacity                with procurement
                        rules andbudget
                        alans
1.4 Improved Debt     - Reductionin           - Reductionof Stress  -  Increased ability
Management              Interest Payments       on the General         for Capital
                      - Reductionin Short
                        Term Debt
Component Two:
Business Processes
Reengineeringand
Information
Management
2.1 Change
Management
Change Management     - Limitedfiscal costs   - Implementation of
Planemphasizing       - MediumTerm              the existing legal
inclusionof the         savings due to better   and institutional
Ministry of Finance     coordination            framework
2.2 Organizational
Reform
Reengineering of      - Higher revenues       - Increased tax       -  Better accessibility
process andprocedures - Shorter transaction     compliance             and service
                        times                 - Efficiency gains       delivery for tax
                                              - Equitable taxation  -   payers
                                                                        Transparency and
                                                                        trust in the process
Improvementof         - Reduction of tax      -  Reduction of tax   -   Social stigma of
information flow        losses                   rates                  tax evasion
                      - Reduction of VAT                            -   Support for the tax
                        fraud                                           administration
                      - Reduction of
                        customs losses
2.3 Personnel

                      - Improve pension
managementsystem        planning
                      -  Reduction of losses
                        due to
:                        misclassification of
                         employees
Payrollreform for     - More efficient work      Competitiveness
 rofessional and         rules compensate



                                             70

   ComponentsAnd        Possible Fiscal Impact
    Subcomponents
administrative staff       for higher wages
                           (zero sum)                                     activities
Reforms of HRrules     -   More efficient work   . Competitiveness      - Elimination of
and regulation on          rules compensate        with private sector    conflicts of interest
external services          for higher wages                               due to outside
                           (zero sum)                                     activities
Records, evaluation    -   Reduced HR cost       . Efficiency gains     - Increased
and training                                     . Better service         accountability
Severanceschemes,       -  Short term: higher                           - Improved services
early retirement and       expenditures
job-rotation            -  Mediumterm:
                           reduction in overall
                           staff
Component Three:
Transparency,Civil
Society Participation
and Communications
Draftingand adoption    -  No direct fiscal cost - Improved self        -  Higher ethical
of an institutional                                enforcement of the      standards leadto
ethics code                                        existingrules and       improved services
                                                   procedures
                                                 - Efficiency gains due
                                                   to higher ethical
                                                   standards
Developing and          -  Marginal increasein -   Reduction in         -  Improved
implementingan             operating costs due     internal monitoring     participation
access to information      to the management       cost due to public   -  Increased trust and
policy                     of the information      enforcement of          confidence in
                           requests                rules and               government
Improving internal and -   Reductionof those       procedures              agencies
external administrative    costs through the
 reporting systems         participation of
                           CISNI and TI
 Developingtools to     -  Limitedfiscal cost    - Economic savings      - Public confidence
 respondto citizen         as the system would     due to early             ingovernment
 complaints                be integrated inthe     detection of fraud,   -  Riskis that the
                           general information     waste, and               Ministry i s
 Design of tools for       flow of the Ministry    inefficient services     overwhelmed by
 citizen monitoring and -  Some operating                                   requests and
 evaluation.               costs for IT and                                 complaints,
                           supervision of                                   leadingto negative
                           compliance                                       reactions of the
                                                                            public
 Informationprogram     -- Limitedfiscal costs   - Efficiency gains
                                                             _ _         -  Transparency and
                           Less waste                                       accountability




                                                71

                                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                 Paraguay     - Strengthening  of the Ministry of Finance Project


The Project currently triggers none of the Bank's environmental or social SafeguardPolicies. If
any changes of environmental or social significance should arise during Project implementation,
                                     Bank policies will apply.l7




l7
 Refer to Environmental and Social Commentsof LESES-Quality AssuranceTeam (Quintero), October 2,2002.


                                                 72

                         Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                  Paraguay Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance Project
                            -

                                                    Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                    November27,2003             December4,2003
InitialPIDto PIC                               December3,2003             August 30,2004
InitialISDS to PIC                              March25,2004
Appraisal                                      February 17,2005          February22,2005
Negotiations                                   February21,2005           February25,2005
Board/RVPapproval                               March31,2005              March31,2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                 November29,2005              November2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview                   March24,2007               March2007
Plannedclosingdate                           November29,2009              November2009

Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the Project:

Ministry of Finance
ProjectCoordinationUnit (PCU)
The World Bank

Bank staff andconsultantswho workedonthe Projectincluded:

              NAME                                        Title                      Unit
Roberto 0.Panzardi                Senior Public Sector Mgmt. Svecialist        LCSPS
FernandoRojas                     LeadPublic Sector Mgkt. Specialist           LCSPS
LinnHammergren                    Senior Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist        LCSPS
Beatriz Merino                    Senior Public SectorMgmt. Specialist         LCSPS
Zeinab Partow                     Country Economist                            LCSPE
Reynaldo Pastor                   Senior Counsel                               LEGLA
Morag van Praag                   Senior FinanceOfficer                        LOAGl
Paul Sisk                         Senior Financial Mgmt. Specialist            LCOAA
Antonio Blasco                    FinancialManagementSpecialist                LCOAA
Wolfgang Koehling                 Economist                                    LCSPS
Graciela Sanchez-Martinez         Civil Society Specialist                     LCC7C
Emilio Rodriguez                  ProcurementSpecialist                        LCOPR
Jorge Segura                      Institutional ReformSpecialist               CONS
Olivier Lafourcade                Economist                                    CONS
Juan Gill Diaz                    Economist                                    CONS
Nina Ohman                        PS SpecialistConsultant                      LCSPS
SandraAlborta                     LanguageProgramAssistant                     LCSPS


Bankfunds expendedto date onProjectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources:US$138,210
    2. Trust funds: TF53141(PHRDGrant)-US$802,000-RecipientExecuted

EstimatedApprovaland Supervisioncosts:
    1. Remainingcosts to approval: (US$41,051)
    2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: US$90,000




                                                 73

                           Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File
                  Paraguay  - Strengthening of  the Ministry of Finance Project

 A.      Project Implementation Documents

 Project Implementation Plan
 Operational Manual
 Project Procurement Plan

 B.      BankStaff Assessments

 Institutionaland GovernanceReport -IGR, draft preparedby LinnHammergren (2004)
 Financial Management Assessment (FMA), preparedby Antonio Blasco (December 2004)
 Project Procurement Assessment (PPA), prepared by Andres MacGaul/Emilio Rodriguez
 (December 2004)
 Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank for the Republic of Paraguay (November, 2003)
 Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (August 2004)

 C.      Others

 2004 CorruptionPerception Index. Transparency International (October 2004).
 hdice de Transparencia,Integridad y Eficiencia de la Administracidn Piblica basado en
 elementosobjetivos. TransparenciaParaguay. (December 2004)
 Agenda para un Pais Mejor. Programa de Gobierno 2003-2008 Nicanor Duarte Frutos
 (Septiembre 2003)
 Estrategia de Asistencia a1 Pais para la Repdblica del Paraguay 2004/2007. Banco Mundial
 (December 2003)
 Paraguay Creando las Condiciones para unCrecimiento Sustentable. Opciones de Politicas Para
 laNuevaAdministracidn. Banco Mundial(December 2003)
 Diagnostic0 Institucional de laRepdblica del Paraguay. UNDP(September 2002)
 Mapade Transparenciadel Ministeriode Ministry of Finance. CISNI. (April 2004)
 Reinventando la Gestidn Pdblica en el Paraguay. Jose Maria IbiifiezNictor Manuel Sosa
 (December 2003)
 Proyecto "Fortalecimiento del Proceso Presupuestario de la Repdblica del Paraguay".

'Presupuesto General de la Nacidn 2005. Informe Final. Gerard0 UnaNcolas AlbrisiMicolas
 Bertello. (September 2004)

 Ley No. 109/91, EstableceFunciones y Estructura Orginica delMinisterio de Ministry of
 Finance
 Ley No. 1626/00, de laFuncidnPdblica
 Ley No. 2051/03, de Contrataciones Pdblicas
 Ley No.153999. Ley de Administraci6n Financiera del Estado
 Decreto Reglamentario No. 8127/00. Ley de AdministracidnFinanciera del Estado
 Decreto No. 21909, por lacual se reglamenta laLey No. 2051/2003
 Resolucidn No. 78/03. EstablecelaEstructura Orghica y se apruebanlas funciones de laUnidad
 Central de Inversi6n Pdblica del Ministerio de Ministry of Finance
 Resoluci6n No.251/03. Crea la Unidadde Transparencia y Participacidn Ciudadana, dependiente
 del Gabinete Ministerial


                                                74

                                     Annex 13: Matrix of the Ministry of Finance
                            Paraguay: Modernization of the Ministry of Finance Project




  1 MACROSTRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRYOF FINANCE



~~1.
I1.3 HumanResurceS      II    Y  I  Administration


                                    CabinetAdvisors
     Information
 I d Technology         II
                                                               I
 1.6 Businessclimate
     International      IIII
 1.7 Cooperation                                                      1oy11
     adminisfration                                                            I
  2 ECONOMIC POLICY




~~n `                                                   ~                   1
     NationalEconomic
     Team

 2 5 Economlc




  3 TRASNPARENCY


 3 2 UTPC
 33 oscs

  4 FINANCIALMANAGEMENT




                                   SSEAF Accounting
                                         -
                                   GeneralDepartment
                                    SSEAF General
                                           -
 4.4 Treasury

 4.5 PublicDebt                    SSEAF.Public

     Financial                               .
 4.6 Management                       SSEAF IT
                                     Depaltment
     Budget Execution
 4.7 Units Agenciesand
           -                            SSEAF


  5 CONTROL

 5,1 Treasury Legal

 5,2 InternalAudit d the


     Coordinationamong:                    .Internal
     MF. National                   SSEAF

 5.3 Controller,General
     Audit, Presidency,
     Accounts Court



                                    Cabinet Advisory




                                                          75

~~~~  Themolio Anu        9a.ugl.r a InRltuUonal a r u In          ~ADB
                           *LUn             charge


    6 CIVIL SERVICE




    7 GOVERNMENTPROCUREMENT




       ProcurementUnns .
  74   Agenciesand
         rwinces

    8 TAX ADMINISTRATION




I 6.6  Trainina         II    Y     I
    9 CUSTOMS

  9,1  Legalframework
       modernization
       Organizational
  9.2  developmentand HR



  9.4  Valuation
  9.5  Audit
  9,6  Information

  9.7 Trainin

  10 FISCALTREASURY

 ,o,2  Organizational

 10.3  Audit                           SSEAF Pensions
                                              -
       Information                                                                      ~!
                                       ceneral
 10.5  technology.SiNARH
       interface
 10.6  Trainin

  11PUBLIC INVESMENT
~~~1                                  ~                  -                 1
                                                             ~                   ~




 11.1  NationalDebt                       Debt'Policy



       Pre-investment
1 11.4 ProiectsExecution
                    ~               1   Publk Investment
                                          CentralUnit   ~                   1
~~~=~
  12 DESCENTRALIZATION

                                       Decentrai1zation



  13 CENTRAL BANK OFPARAGUAY
      Components
1131    BCP             l     o      t        BCP         1      -    0   1                            0            I    i  I
        iABD Operations                                                                   IBRD Operations
                                                              Ga&                         9 SiST.FIN. BP-TF051360(USD
                                                              4 MF SUPPORT (USD           TOllDF' (USD
                                                              51SSEE STRENGTHENING(USD    !iI?!D   (USD
                                                              6'PUEClC ACCOUNTiNG (USD
                                                              7CISMSUPPORT (USD
                                                              8?UCP STRENGTHENING(USD



                                                                               76

                                        Annex 14: Statement of Loans and Credits
                             Paraguay      - Strengthening of       the Ministry of Finance Project

                                                                                                                       Difference between
                                                                                                                       expected andactual
                                                              Original Amount inUS$ Millions                             disbursements

Project ID FY      Purpose                                IBRD         IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO73526     2004   PY- EDUCATION REFORM                     24.00       0.00    0.00       0.00     0.00     24.00      2.25        0.00
PO69269     2002   PY Pilot Community DevelopmentProject     9.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      8.10      2.62         1.21
PO39983     1998   PY 4th RURALWATER SUPPLY &               40.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     25.10     25.10       25.10
                   SANITATION
PO07927     1997   PY-M.HLTWCHD.DV.                         21.80       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.98      0.98        0.98
PO07918     1994   PY NTL RESMGMT I                         50.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     14.40     14.40        4.09

                                                   Total: 144.80        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     72.58     45.35       31.38




                                                          PARAGUAY
                                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillions of US Dollars

                                                              Committed                                  Disbursed
                                                             IFC                                        IFC
        FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic.    Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.




                                Totalportfolio:   0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                                            Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval    Company                           Loan       Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                           Totalpendingcommitment:      0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                   77

                                                Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
                              Paraguay Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance Project
                                            -
                                        Paraguay at a glance                                                                             9/15/04

                                                                          Latin       Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                     America       middle-
                                                           Paraguay    & Carib.      income       Development diamond-
2003
Popuiation, mid-year (millions)                                   5.6       534        2,655                     Life expectancy
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                             1,100      3,260        1,460
GNi (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  6.2     1,741        3,934

Averaqe annual growth, 1997-03                                                                                          T
Population (%)                                                    2.3        1.5         0 9
Labor force (%)                                                   2.9        2.1         1 2      GNi                                    Gross
                                                                                                  per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                             capita                              nroiiment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpovew iine)
Urban population (% of tOtalPOPulatiOn)                           57          77          50
Life expectancy at birth hears)                                   71          71          69                            i
infant mortality (per 1,000 live bitihs)                          26          28          32
Chiid malnutrition (% of children under5)                                                 11             Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)              76          86          81
illiteracy (% ofpopulation aae 1%)                                  8         11          10
Gross primarv enrollment (% of school-aae population)            112        129          112         ---Paraguay
    Male                                                         114        131          113                   Lower-middle-income group
                                                                                                      ~

    Female                                                       110        126          111

                                                                                                 1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                    1983        1993      2002         2003
                                                                                                  Economic ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                    5.6         6.9        5.6         5 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                       21.4         22.9       19 5        25 1
Exports of goods and se~iceslGDP                     13.3        36.9      307          28 7                          Trade

Gross domestic savinas/GDP                          21 3         12 0        8.3        10 6
Gross national savingslGDP                          22.6         14 0       10 2        12 8                            T
Current account baiancelGDP                           1.2         0.9       -0.9         0 3
interest pavments/GDP                                                                             Domestic
                                                      0.8         1 2        1.6                                                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                      25 2         23 2      53 0                   savings

Total debt servlce/exPOltS                           11 8         8 0       10.7
Present value of debffGDP                                                  50.6
Present value of dsbffexports                                              93.2
                                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                        1983-93 1993-03         2002      2003       2003-07
(averaqe annual qrowth)
GDP                                         3 7       1.1        -2.3        2.1         2.6           -Paraguay
GDP per capita                              0 8      -1.2        -4.4       -0.3         -0.3                   Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services              138     -10.7         -9.3        5.1         4.0


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                          257         245
lndustrv                                             236         258
    Manufacturing                                    148         160        145          139
Services                                             507         497        496         51 9
Private consumption                                  71 4        61 3
General aovernment consumPtion                        7 3         6 7
imports of goods and services                        134         479        41 9        432

                                                 1983-93    1993-03       2002
 (average annualgrowth)
Agriculture                                           3.9         1.8        2.2
industrv                                              4.6         2.5        2.5
    Manufacturing                                    -1.1         0.9        2.5
Services                                              3.1        -0.1        -7.8

 Private consumption                                  3.9         1.8        -2.5
General government consumption                        9.0         1.3     -19.3          16.4
Gross domestic investment                             4.9        -3.5        -7.3
 Imports of goods and services                       15.8        -7.1     -15.0


Note: 2003 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
 'The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.




                                                                          78

                                                                                                                       Paraauav

PRICESand GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                               1983     1993      2002     2003
                                                                                                                                    I
Domesticprices                                                                     Inflation(%)

("A change)                                                                                                                         I
Consumerprices                                          18.3       14.6      8.8   15
ImplicitGDP deflator                            14.4    19.1       16.4     14.4   10

Governmentfinance                                                                   5
(?Aof GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                         14.0       15.9     15.7            98      99    w         01    02      03
Current budget balance                                   2.9        3.3      2.4
Overallsurplus/deficit                                   0.9        0.4     -0.3            -'--"GDP     deflator -CPI


TRADE
                                               1983     1993      2002     2003
(US$ millions)                                                                     Exportandimportlevels(US$ mill.)

Totalexports(fob)                                     2,947       2,241    2,421   5.000T
  Soy products                                           224        285     307
  Cotton                                                 165         78      84
  Manufactures                                        2,222       1,374    1,484
Total imports(ci0                                     2,780       2,515    2,666
  Food                                                 1,302        a77     930
  Fueland energy                                         147        154      163
                                                                                                                                    I
  Capital goods                                          509        418      443

Exportprice index (1995=100)                                                              87     98    88    w       01  02

Importprice index (1995=100)                                                                     Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                                       O3



BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                               1983     1993       2002     2003
(US$mi//ions)                                                                       Current accountbalanceto GDP(%)
Exportsof goods andservices                      742   3,298      2,787    3,010
Importsof goods and services                     750   3,372      2,911    3,085   2 T
Resourcebalance                                   -8     -75       -124      -75

Netincome                                         72      56        -18      -15
Netcurrent transfers                              6       78         89      107

Currentaccount balance                            70      59        -52       17

Financingitems (net)                            -109      28        150       83
Changesin net reserves                            40     -87        -98     -100

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)                      701        758      859
Conversionrate (DEC,local/US$)                 146.0  1,744.3    5,716.3  6,424.3

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS                                                                                                     I
                                               1983     1993       2002     2003
(US$mi/iions)                                                                       Compositionof 2002debt(US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed            1,414   1,597      2,967
   IBRD                                          168     1a5        216                                    A: 216
   IDA                                            47      38         25                          0 486             6.25

Totaldebt service                                102     286        327
   IBRD                                           21      61         26
   IDA                                             1        1         2

Compositionof net resourceflows                                                                                            D 918
   Officialgrants                                  4      21         19
   Officialcreditors                             156     -47          -7
   Privatecreditors                               72     -50         56                  F 871

   Foreigndirect investment                        5      75         -22
   Portfolio equity                                0       0           0                                       E:451
                                                                                                                                    I
World Bank program                                                                                                                  I
   Commitments                                    40       0           9            A IBRD
                                                                                      -                                 E* Bilateral
   Disbursements                                  30        8         14            B IDA        D Other multilateral
                                                                                                  -                     F Private
   Principal repayments                            9      43          17            C IMF
                                                                                       .-                               0 Short-term
                                                                                                                         --
   Netflows                                       21     -35          -3
   Interestpayments                               13      19          11
   Nettransfers                                    8     -55         -14


 Note:This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomicscentraldatabase.                                                    9/15/04




                                                                      79


                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33464

                62W                                                   60W                                        58W                                         56W                                   54W




18S                                                                                                                                                                                                     18S




                              B O L I V I A


                                                                                                                                                                           PARAGUAY



                                                      Capitn Pablo
                                                      Capitn
                To                                    Lagerenza

20S         Santa F                                                 C H A C O                            Puerto                                                                                        20S
                                                                     Cerro Len
                                                                           Len                      Baha Negra
                                                                                                     Baha
                                                                     (1,000 m)

                   General Eugenio
       To                A. Garay
     Boyuibe                                                                   Forttn
                                                                                   n
                                     NUEVA                                     Madrejon           A L T O
                                                                                                       Fuerte Olimpo
                               ASUNCIN
                               ASUNCIN                                                    PA R A G U AY
                                                                                                                                                                         B R A Z I L
                                                                                   Forttn Carlos
                                                                                       n
                                                                                   A. Lopez
                                                                                                                Puerto
                                                                                                          Tres Palmas                                  To
              Forttn
                   n                                                                                                                                Campo
              Infante Rivarola                                                             Kilmetro
                                                                                           Kilmetro                                                 Grande
                                                                                           160             o
                                                Mariscal                                               c                                                                                                 22S
                                            Estigarribia                                                                Puerto
              Doctor                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                        La Victoria                                       Dourados
              Pedro P. Pea
                          Pea                                                                   C h a
                                                               Filadelfia
                   Pilcomayo                                                                                                                                          Pedro Juan
                             B O Q U E R O N                                          r a n               Puerto Pinasco                            AMAMBAY

                                                                                                                                                                      Caballero
                                                                                   GVerde                                          Aquidabn           Yby Ya
                                Forttn
                                    n
                                Leonida Escobar                                                                                   CONCEPTION
                                                                           Forttn valos
                                                                               n valos             Pozo                         Conceptin
                                                                                                                                  Conceptin                      Capitn
                                                                                                                                                                  Capitn
                                                                           Snchez
                                                                           Snchez                   Colorado                                                       Bado

                                                                Forttn
                                                                    n    Monte  Lindo        P R E S I D E N T E
                                                                General
                                                                Daz
                                                                Daz     Forttn Teniente
                                                                             n                                                            San         Lima
                                                    To                   Rojas Silva                                               Paraguay
                                                                                                                                        Pedro
24S                                            Las Lomitas                                          H A Y E S                                  S A N                                  Salto del         24S
                                                                                                                                                                CANENDIY
                                                                                                                                                                CANENDIY               Guair
                                                                                                                                                                                        Guair

                                                                                            Pilcomayo                                         P E D R O
                                                                                                                                                                 Curuguaty
                                                                                                                                  Rosario




                                                                                                                           Villa                      San
                                                                                                                          Hayes                Estanislao                      Itaquayry
                                                   A R G E N T I N A                                                                CORDILLERA            CAAGUAZU                                 To
                                                                                                            ASUNCIN
                                                                                                            ASUNCIN                       Caacup
                                                                                                                                           Caacup      Coronel                                  Cascavel
                                                                                                                                                        Oviedo                         PARANA
                                                                                                                CENTRALIta                 Paraguari                         Ciudad del
                                                                                                                                                       Cerro Pero
                                                                                                                                                        (842 m)                   O  Este

     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               To                        Villarrica
                                                                                                                Formosa
     The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                               PARA-             GUAIRA Aba   Aba     A LTSanta
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rita
26S shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                         Villa                                                                         26S
     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                      Oliva                         Caazap
                                                                                                                                                         Caazap
     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                   NEEM          GUARI                A A Z A P A
                                                                                                                               M                     C

       PARAGUAY                                                                                                  Pilar                        San Ygnacio San Pedro
                                                                                                                                                           del Paran
                                                                                                                                                               Paran
                                                                                                              Desmochado BUC ISIONES        San Juan
                                                                                                                                             Bautista           I TA P U A       Paran



               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                          Coronel
                                                                                                                 Paran                           Bogado           Encarnacin
                                                                                                                                                                         nacin
               DEPARTMENT CAPITALS

               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                Santo Tom

               RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                         28S
               PAN-AMERICAN HIGHWAY

               MAIN ROADS

               RAILROADS                                                                                                                                         0        50       100       150 Kilometers


               DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                 0              50             100 Miles
               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                           60W                                    58W                                     56W                                 54W

                                                                                                                                                                                              NOVEMBER 2004

