Page  1
LOAN AGREEMENT 7286-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Modernization of the Ministry of Finance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 21 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7286-PA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 21, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BCP” means 
Banco Central del Paraguay
,
the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
Page  3
2
(c) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(e) “MH” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance; 
(f) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement, as such manual may be amended from time to time with the agreement 
of the Bank; 
(g) 
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this 
Agreement; 
(h) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
February 24, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(i) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(j) “SIAF” 
 
means 
Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera
,
the 
Borrower’s integrated financial management system established pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Law No. 1535/99 dated December 31, 1999 (
Ley de Administración 
Financiera del Estado
-Financial Administrative Law); 
(k) 
“SIGADE” means 
Sistema de Gestión y Análisis de la Deuda
,
the 
Borrower’s  system to manage and analyze its debt; 
(l) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Steering Committee” means 
Comité de Dirección para el proceso de 
Reforma del Proyecto de Modernización del Ministerio de Hacienda
,
the committee to 
support MH
’s modernization reform process established pursuant to MH’s Resolution 
No. 373 dated July 13, 2004; and 
Page  4
3
(n) 
“UTPC” means 
Unidad de Transparencia y Participación Ciudadana
,
the Transparency and Citizen Participation Unit established within MH. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seven million 
five hundred thousand Dollars
 
($7,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time 
to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at a rate 
of three fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time, subject to any waiver of a portion of such charge 
as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  5
4
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted
 by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through MH, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial management, 
technical, social, civil service and environmental  practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  6
5
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with a manual (the 
Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (ii) the FMR formats; (iii) the terms of 
reference for carrying out the Project audits; (iv) the functions and responsibilities of the 
Steering Committee, the PCU and UTPC; (v) the Project indicators; and (vi) the Project 
disbursement and procurement procedures. 
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation: (A) the Steering Committee with a structure and with functions 
and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to 
oversee the carrying out of the Project; and (B) the UTPC with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to monitor 
MH’s personnel’s behavior in the discharge of their functions; and (ii) operate and 
maintain, at all times during Project implementation, a Project coordination unit (the 
PCU) with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility of the PCU to assist the Borrower in Project implementation, 
monitoring and supervision. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the UTPC is at all times during 
Project implementation headed by a national director staffed with adequate professional 
and administrative personnel, all with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank; and (ii) the PCU: (A) is at all times during Project implementation headed by a 
national director staffed with adequate professional and administrative personnel, all with 
Page  7
6
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank; and (B) has hired a procurement 
advisor with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to the 
Bank. 
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting in the year 2006), prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual 
program, acceptable to the Bank (each such program to include, 
inter alia
,
a
complete 
description of the Project activities to be carried out by the Borrower during the calendar 
year following the date of presentation of said program); and (b) immediately thereafter 
implement each corresponding program in accordance with its terms (including the 
annual program for the year 2006 referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement). 
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish 
to the Bank, not later than forty five calendar days after the end of each calendar semester 
during Project implementation (starting with the report due for the second calendar 
semester of 2006), a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester preceding the date of 
presentation of said report in accordance with the pertinent annual program referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof during 
the following calendar semester; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank not later than April 30 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting in the year 2007), the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and, thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the case may be, all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
reports and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Section 3.08. For purposes of carrying out of Part A.3 (a) (iv) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, prior to the carrying out of said Part of the Project, enter into an 
arrangement with its legislative branch on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  8
7
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of  reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  9
8
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(ii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as    at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Borrower;  
Page  10
9
(b) 
an annual program (acceptable to the Bank) for the calendar year 2006 as 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement has been furnished to the Bank; and 
(c) 
a procurement advisor has been hired by the Borrower as provided in 
Section 3.05 (b) (ii) (B) of this Agreement.    
Section 5.02. The date October 5, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of MH is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
(
Ministerio de Hacienda
)
Chile 128 casi Palma 
Asunción, Paraguay 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 595 (21) 448-283  
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Asunción, Paraguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By/s/ Ernst Bergen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Axel van Trotsenburg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
11
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) Works 
188,500 
97% 
 
(2) Goods 
1,523,700 
97% 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
 
  
 
(a) provided by 
553,500) 
 
 
trainers; and 
) 
 
)
97%
(b) provided by 
) 
 
other type of 
3,238,000) 
 
consultants 
 
(4) 
Project Audits 
120,000 
97%  
 
(5) Training 
1,376,300 
100% 
 
(6)  
Front-end fee   
37,500 
Amount due  
 
under Section     
 
2.04
of
this  
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
462,500
TOTAL 7,500,000
Page  13
12
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Training” means expenditures (other 
than those for consultants’ services) based on an annual budget previously approved by 
the Bank, incurred by the Borrower to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-
diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable), training registration fees and rental of 
training facilities (including logistics arrangements of meetings/workshops/seminars for 
the provision of training) and training equipment under the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of the first two contracts to 
be procured under each procurement methodology referred to in Parts B.1 (a) and B.2 (a) 
(i) of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract with the exception of the first two contracts for works to 
be procured under the procurement methodology referred to in Part B.2 (a) (ii) of Section 
II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, with the exception of  those contracts 
for services of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis; (d) contracts 
for services of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, with 
the exception of those contracts for consulting services provided by a firm selected on a 
sole source basis; and (e) contracts for Training under Category (5) as set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, with the exception of the first two contracts for the 
rental of training facilities and training equipment to be procured under Part B.2 (b) of 
Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the 
date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
BCP, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  14
13
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
Page  15
14
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
 If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  16
15
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Page  17
16
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  18
17
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  19
18
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to support the MH in its efforts to ensure fiscal 
sustainability and enhance the quality of public expenditures, through the strengthening 
of its core functions and responsibilities and the improvement of its internal 
administrative and financial management systems, so as to enable the MH to assist the 
Borrower in the reform of its public sector. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A
:
Improvement of Core Products
1. 
Economic and Fiscal Policy
:
Strengthening of MH
’s: (a) economic and fiscal policy function, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(i) the improvement of its capacity to formulate basic statistics, fiscal discipline 
parameters and a medium term macro-economic framework; (ii) the preparation of a 
fiscal responsibility bill of law (acceptable to the Bank); and (iii) the strengthening of the 
coordination between the BCP and MH’s Statistics Directorate so as to jointly formulate 
reliable economic information; (b) medium-term fiscal planning capacity, through, 
inter 
alia
,
the carrying out of an assessment of MH’s role as the national economic leading 
agency within the Borrower’s executive branch, and thereafter, based on the 
recommendations of said assessment, the development of a proposal to improve MH’s 
efficiency and effectiveness in performing said role; and (c) capacity to negotiate trade 
and economic integration agreements. 
2. 
Tax policy and Tax Administration
:
Design and implementation of tax policy and tax administration activities, which 
activities consist of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the digitalization of tax returns; (b) the improvement of 
the tax collection capacity of selected tax offices (as approved by the Bank); and (c) the 
strengthening of MH’s capacity to prepare management revenue reports and design 
policy options to generate non-tax revenues.
 
Page  20
19
3. 
Budget and Financial Management
:
(a)  
Design and implementation of a budget program, which program consists 
of, 
inter alia
:
(i) the carrying out of a review of the regulatory framework governing the 
preparation and execution of the Borrower’s annual budget, and thereafter, based on the 
recommendations of said review, the development of a proposal to convert the current 
budget structure on a results-informed budget; (ii) the design and implementation of a 
pilot medium term program to monitor and evaluate the Borrower’s annual budget; (iii) 
the improvement of the current expenditure monitoring program, through the 
establishment of an expenditure monitoring system so as to provide up-to-date 
information concerning ongoing budget execution and effectively allocate resources to 
public social services; and (iv) the strengthening of MH’s relationship with the 
Borrower’s legislative branch budget offices so as to ensure access to the SIAF and to the 
information produced by MH in respect of budget formulation, execution and evaluation;
 
and  
(b) 
design and implementation of a financial management program, which 
program consists of, 
inter alia
:
(i) the consolidation of the economic and fiscal 
information provided by existing information systems within MH (including the SIAF) so 
as to improve MH’s decision-making capacity; (ii) the design and implementation of a 
system which will integrate information concerning internal revenues and public 
expenditures; and (iii) the carrying out of an evaluation of the SIAF so as to, if needed, 
upgrade said system. 
4. Public 
Debt
:
Design and implementation of a public debt management program, which 
program consists of, 
inter alia
,
the strengthening of MH’s public debt units to manage 
public debt, the upgrading of SIGADE, the development of forecasting debt models and 
the provision of training required therefor.  
5. Public 
Investment
:
Design and implementation of a public investment program, which program 
consists of, 
inter alia
,
the strengthening of MH’s public investment office in order to 
improve its capacity to analyze and evaluate public investment project proposals, design 
multiyear public investment plans and monitor the execution of said projects. 
Page  21
20
Part B
:
Business Processes Reengineering and Information Management 
1. Change 
Management
:
Design and implementation of a change management program, which program 
consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the strengthening of the Steering Committee to assist the MH in 
the carrying out of an institutional modernization reform; (b) the carrying out of an 
organizational climate survey within MH; (c) the design of an information program for 
MH
’s institutional modernization reform, which program will, 
inter alia
,
identify the 
main stakeholders (including their expectations and priorities) in order to ensure the 
success and sustainability of said institutional modernization reform and inform MH’s 
personnel concerning the contents of said reform so as to create a sense of urgency and 
ensure ownership and sustainability of the reform by said personnel; and (d) if 
appropriate, the provision of training to MH’s personnel during the implementation of 
said institutional modernization reform.    
2. Process 
Streamlining
:
Design and implementation of a streamlining program, which program consists 
of, 
inter alia
,
the carrying out of a review of MH’s core processes and procedures in 
respect of, 
inter alia
,
budget, accounting, treasury and human resources, and if needed, 
the reformulation of said processes and procedures in order to improve the effectiveness 
and efficiency of MH’s functions and responsibilities.  
3. Information 
Management
:
Design and implementation of an information management program, which 
program consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the improvement of the information flows within MH 
to improve access and sharing of information; (b) the design of a policy on information 
technology; and (c) the development and establishment of an information technology 
governance model. 
4. 
Human Resources Management Reform
:
Design and implementation of a human resources management program, which 
program consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) if needed, the reformulation of those processes and 
procedures in the area of human resources management as referred to in Part B.2 above; 
(b) the development of guidelines and incentives to increase the hiring percentage of 
professionals within MH; (c) the development of internal regulations and guidelines to 
improve MH’s human resources management; (d) the development and implementation 
of payroll scales for administrative and professional personnel; (e) the upgrading of the 
current integrated human resources management information system; (f) the 
Page  22
21
strengthening of MH
’s human resources administrative directorate; (g) the development 
of a link between the SIAF and the human resources management information system 
mentioned in (e) herein so as to improve the provision of information concerning civil 
service expenditures; and (h) the provision of training to MH’s personnel in the areas of 
budget, accounting and treasury. 
5. 
Improve Internal Control and Auditing
:
Design and implementation of an internal control and auditing program, which 
program consists of, 
inter alia
,
the strengthening of the internal control and auditing 
functions within MH, through the integration of an audit module within SIAF and the 
provision of training to MH’s internal auditors. 
Part C
:
Transparency, Civil Society Participation and Communications 
1. Transparency
:
Design and implementation of a program to increase transparency within MH, 
which program consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the drafting and adoption of an ethics code, 
including the provision of training to MH’s personnel on the importance of compliance 
with the provisions of said code; (b) the development and implementation of an access to 
information policy; (c) the development and implementation of norms to standardize, 
regulate and facilitate access to information for the public in general; (d) the 
establishment and operation of a citizen’s information center (C
entro de Atención al 
Ciudadano
)
which functions will be to register complaints from the public and monitor 
their internal status, provide guidance to the public with respect to access to MH
’s 
services and support the MH and the UTPC in identifying recurrent complaints related to 
the provision of services; and (e) the design and implementation of an asset disclosure 
mechanism so as to ensure that all of MH’s personnel is in compliance with their asset 
disclosure obligations. 
2. 
Civil Society Participation
:
Design and implementation of a civil society program, which program consists 
of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the design and implementation of mechanisms for citizen monitoring 
and evaluation of MH’s activities; (b) the development, printing and distribution of 
educational materials and programs on individuals’ access of information with respect to 
MH’s services; and (c) the organization of public forums to discuss MH’s progress in 
undertaking actions to increase transparency, and immediately thereafter, based on the 
recommendations resulting from each forum, develop a proposal to implement said 
recommendations.     
Page  23
22
3. Communications
:
Design and implementation of a communications program, which program 
consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) the carrying out of a campaign to inform the Borrower’s civil 
servants and the public in general with respect to, 
inter alia
:
(i) the importance of fiscal 
discipline and performance monitoring, and the link between expenditures and outputs; 
(ii) the responsibility of civil servants to provide high quality service and the public’s 
right to receive it; (iii) the public’s duty to comply with their tax obligations; and (iv) the 
MH’s efforts to improve the quality of public expenditures; and (b) the carrying out of a 
tax campaign to increase tax collection and reduce tax evasion. 
Part D
:
Project Management
1. 
Strengthening of the PCU to carry out its functions and responsibilities 
mentioned in Section 3.05 (a) (ii) of this Agreement. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower to enable it to comply with its 
annual audit obligation referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008. 
 
Page  24
23
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; and by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
2.78% 
 
Beginning April 15, 2010  
 
through April 15, 2027 
 
 
On October 15, 2027 
2.70% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Page  25
24
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  26
25
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
Without limitation to the provisions in paragraphs A and B of this Section, the 
following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in respect of 
goods and works;  
(b) 
bidders shall not be required to purchase the pertinent bidding documents 
in respect of goods, works and consultants’ services;  
(c) 
pre-qualification shall not be allowed for the selection of consultants; and 
(d) 
the Borrower shall follow national regulations with respect to record 
keeping and publication of procurement opportunities and contract awards in its 
procurement regulatory body web page (
Sistema de Información de la Contratación 
Pública
). 
D. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Page  27
26
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding; and 
(b) 
procurement of goods shall be carried out using standard bidding 
documents acceptable to the Bank.  
2. Shopping
.
(a) 
(i) Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract; and 
(ii) works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
(b) 
Rental of training facilities and training equipment shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting  may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
Page  28
27
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Single Source Selection
.
Consultants’ services for tasks in circumstances which 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Consultants’ services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for 
goods: (i) estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more procured on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding; and (ii) procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; 
(b) the first two contracts for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding; (c) the first two contracts for goods, rental of training facilities and training 
equipment and works procured on the basis of Shopping procedures; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent; 
and (e) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm selected on a sole 
source basis. In addition, the record of justification referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or more shall be subject 
to Prior Review by the Bank. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
