                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                          Report No: NCO0000423




                   NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                   (IBRD-72860)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.5 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY

                                      FOR A

         MODERNIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE PROJECT




                                   August 3, 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

      (Exchange Rate Effective June 22, 2007)

           Currency Unit = Paraguayan Guaranies
                US$ 1.00 = 5,075 Guaranies

                 FISCAL YEAR
           [January 1 ­ December 31]

      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CPAR      Procurement Assessment Report
FSAL      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FTAL      Financial Technical Assistance Loan
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IGR       Institutional and Governance Review
ISR       Implementation Status Report
LAC       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
MoF       Ministry of Finance
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
WBI       World Bank Learning Institute




             Vice President: Pamela Cox
           Country Director: Pedro Alba
            Sector Manager: Nicholas P. Manning
        Project Team Leader: Roberto O. Panzardi




                         ii

                                                    Paraguay
               Paraguay - Modernization of the Ministry of Finance




                                                 CONTENTS




A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates.................................................................................................................. iv
C. Ratings Summary...................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... iv
E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... v
F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs..................................................................... v
1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation. ......................................... 3
3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 3
4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 4
5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 4
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............... 5
Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ....................................................................... 7




                                                         iii

A. Basic Information
                                                            Paraguay -
Country:           Paraguay           Project Name:         Modernization of the
                                                            Ministry of Finance
Project ID:        P087036            L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-72860
NCO Date:          05/30/2007
Lending                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
                   TAL                Borrower:
Instrument:                                                 PARAGUAY
Original Total
                   USD 7.5M           Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates

     Process          Date           Process       Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept
                   12/04/2003    Effectiveness:      12/31/2006
Review:
Appraisal:         02/22/2005    Closing:            06/30/2009      12/31/2006
Approval:          04/05/2005

C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:             Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                      Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                       98
Law and justice                                          2




                                        iv

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform              Secondary
Debt management and fiscal sustainability             Primary
Participation and civic engagement                   Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                      Primary
procurement
Tax policy and administration                       Secondary

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                    At NCO                  At Approval
Vice President:         Pamela Cox                 Pamela Cox
Country Director:       Pedro Alba                 Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:         Nicholas P. Manning        Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader: Roberto O. Panzardi
NCO Team Leader:        Roberto O. Panzardi
NCO Primary Author: Nina-Christina Ohman



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                    Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived               DO                 IP             Disbursements
                                                                (USD millions)
  1    05/05/2005         Satisfactory       Satisfactory                0.00
  2    06/20/2006         Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory              0.00
  3    06/30/2006        Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory              0.00
  4    12/28/2006        Unsatisfactory      Unsatisfactory              0.00




                                          v

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD, briefly
describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance, development
objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements, risk analysis,
and quality at entry):

Country and Sector Background. Paraguay's performance improved in 2003 and 2004
with GDP expanding by an estimated 2.6 and 2.9 percent respectively. Simultaneously,
the new administration in 2003 adopted a strong stance against corruption and an
emphasis on tighter fiscal policies and economic reforms for improving the country's
outlook. It then took notable steps to contain current expenditures, tackle other drains on
the public accounts, enhance revenues, and address problems associated with the
financial sectors and public enterprises. The same time, though, when the project was
proposed, the economy had other significant public sector problems. The Government
saw the need to overcome institutional weaknesses, and to improve fiscal policy-making
and implementation. It viewed the strengthening of Ministry of Finance (MoF) as a
necessary first step to improve fiscal and financial management, reduce corruption,
increase transparency, along with encouraging civil society involvement in monitoring
results. The government realized too that capacity limitations in the Ministry had caused
substantial prolonged primary deficits.      These problems in turn had contributed to
financial crises culminating in defaults on national and foreign debt, as well as payment
of public service salaries and pensions. These and related problems exacerbated the
public's lack confidence in the public service.

Rationale for Bank Assistance.         When the Project was proposed, there was a
coordinated effort by the Bank, IMF and IDB to assist the Paraguayan authorities to carry
out measure to address the causes of the Government's vulnerabilities, including financial
and human resource management, tax administration, and internal revenue management.

The Bank had developed an effective dialogue with the Government and the leadership of
the MoF, which opened a window to address its problems. Also, the Government had
requested Bank's involvement in the operation because of its experience with fiscal,
budgeting, financial and fiduciary issues, and anti-corruption measures.

Development Objective. The Project aimed to support the Ministry of Finance's efforts
to improve the sustainability and quality of public expenditures through strengthening its
core functions and responsibilities, and the improvement of its internal administrative and
financial management systems.

Components, Costs and Funding. The costs of the Project were estimated at US$8.3
million, of which US$7.5 million would be financed with the World Bank loan proceeds
and the rest with counterpart funds. The project had the following four components:

Component 1 - Improvement of Core Products ($3.27 million)
This component was intended to focus on substantive technical reforms within the
Ministry of Finance, on its key core functions. Therefore, the component was designed to
support the improvement of fiscal and economic planning for policy formulation,



                                              1

implementation and monitoring. This was to be achieved through substantive reforms in
the Ministry of Finance and, specifically, capacity building in the areas of economic,
fiscal, budget and financial management. The main sub-components were: (a) Economic
and Fiscal Policy, (b) Tax Policy and tax administration, (c) Budget and Financial and (d)
Public Debt and e. Public Investment.

Component 2 - Business Processes Reengineering and Information Management
($3.27 million)
This component was intended to focus on the improvement of institutional and systemic
issues in the Ministry's organization and cross-support. It was to provide technical
assistance for the diagnosis, design and implementation of organization reforms, training
and monitoring for change management, process streamlining, information management,
human resources management and internal control and auditing.

Component 3 - Transparency, Civil Society Participation and Communications
($0.86 million)
This component was intended to support the Government's anti-corruption efforts to
remedy possible discontinuity in policy and/or leadership. The main sub-components
were to address transparency, civil society participation and communications

Component 4 - Project Management ($0.86 million)
This component was intended to help the MoF's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to
support the designing, implementing and monitoring of Ministry policies and institutional
reforms.

Implementation arrangements.           The Ministry of Finance was the responsible
implementing agency.      A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was created to provide
support of the activity.    The PCU was assigned to work closely with the reform
program's Steering Committee, which was responsible for approving and monitoring
structural MoF changes to transform the Ministry, and to direct the reform process.

Risk Analysis. The Project plan recognized several potential risks confronting project
implementation, those related to its governance, ownership, capacity constraints, and
coverage of recurrent costs. It recommended mitigation measures to address risks. These
included: (i) the implementation of a communications strategy geared to engaging and
gaining the support of other government units and civil society; (ii) the cultivation of
good working relationships with MoF officials; (iii) change management initiatives; and
(iv) efforts to ensure adequate resources to the PCU for successful project management.

Quality at Entry. Project preparation was supported by several sector analyses done for
the new administration. Several priority actions that emerged from the Policy Notes
discussions were incorporated in the Project. Furthermore, project preparation benefited
from a number of Bank and external sector assessments and institutional studies. Their
views were reflected in the project to help ensure sound design and realistic
implementation targets.




                                              2

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):

The Modernization Loan was approved by the Board on April 5, 2005. There was a
considerable delay before the loan was signed on August 21, 2006 because the
Government first waited for Congress to approve a financial sector adjustment loan to
which the modernization loan was linked. The delay was due, in part, to a change of
finance minister and also to other constitutional issues that preoccupied Congress. It
should be noted that the modernization loan was not the only operation to be affected by
the impasse in Congress. Other loans from the Bank and from other international lenders
were also held up.

After loan signature there was very little time for Congress to approve the modernization
loan before the October 5 deadline for loan effectiveness that had been specified in the
Loan Agreement. To allow more time the Bank extended the effectiveness deadline from
October 5, 2006 to December 31, 2006. The Government sent the loan to Congress for
approval in November 2006 and was able to secure Senate approval for the first year of
counterpart funding in the FY07 budget.            It also continued to implement other
improvements in public sector management. Nevertheless, prospects for obtaining timely
Congressional approval of the loan appeared to be remote and the Bank declined a
Government proposal to extend the deadline for effectiveness by an additional six months
beyond end-2006. Further discussions with the Government did not succeed in remedying
the problem, and in March 2007, the Bank management decided to cancel the Loan
Agreement. However, the Bank continues to pursue an active sector dialogue and would
consider renewed support as the country situation permits.

However, the Bank continues to pursue an active sector dialogue ­at the request of the
MOF the Bank and the EU are currently carrying out a Public Expenditure and Financial
Accountability (PEFA) analysis­ and would consider renewed support as the country
situation permits. Also, the coordinated approached followed by the Bank with other
donors has permitted the authorities to advance the project agenda, by for instance
securing grant financing from the US´s Threshold Program (the step prior to the
Millennium Development Account) and the Interamerican Development Bank for the key
activities under component 1.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory." The Project was designed following a
demand-driven approach, and the Bank's project team worked closely with the MoF,
using its strategic plans for its initial framework. In addition, the design took account of
recent diagnoses including extensive reports and policy notes from the WBI, IMF tax
department, UNDP, and Transparency International. The team ensured consistency and
complementarity of the actions to be supported with those of other donors. The Project's


                                               3

foreseeable risks were realistically assessed and suitable mitigating measures were
designed.

Beside the loan the Bank supported the Government in its reform agenda with an ongoing
IDF grant. Originally the IDF was to assist in the preparation and to support the Loan
activities during implementation. However, in the absence of the Loan, the IDF allowed
the Ministry to carry out very targeted activities previously included in the loan. These
activities had a great impact on the Ministry's operations. Amongst others were:
    ·   Analysis of the public sector deficit and the impact of its financing
    ·   Analysis of social expenditures within the public sector budget
    ·   Work on the adoption of a multi-year budget
    ·   Development of guidelines and publications for public hearings on contracting
    ·   Seminar on public procurement, and design of a system to enhance the security of
        the electronic data base on contracting
    ·   Workshop on M &E and purchase of computer equipment and software to be used
        in monitoring economic indicators
    ·   Opinion poll on the Caja Fiscal and public pensions, and actuarial study for the
        banking pension system
    ·   Support (equipment, training, and TA) for the Transparency office
    ·   Technical assistance for the design and implementation of a database and
        management system for human resources in the MEF

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):
Borrower performance is rated "Marginally Unsatisfactory." The performance of the
Borrower throughout the projects was uneven. The executive and the legislative branch
of Government exhibited at times opposing enthusiasm for the project. However the
project was mainly driven by the Ministry of Finance, at times having to convince the
legislative and the executive at the same time. There was a strong commitment of the
Borrower during Project preparation. However, this was undone by the Government's
new challenges, among them the change in the Minister of Finance and the increasingly
complex political circumstances. Consequently, the Project did not complete all the steps
required to declare the loan effective (notably obtaining the Parliament approval). The
Borrower has sent to the Bank a letter indicating that they do not share the Bank's
assessment of the Project as presented in this NCO.          However, they do indicate a
willingness to consider a restructured project concept.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
The main lesson learned is that changes in Paraguay's political conditions can critically
affect project, effectiveness, implementation and achievement of project objectives. In
this instance, the Government's procedures to obtain parliamentary approval have proved
to be serious operational bottlenecks. There is need for simplifying and otherwise
overcoming these hurdles, as well as better policy dialogues.




                                              4

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


       Names                      Title          Unit      Responsibility/
                                                               Specialty
Lending

Roberto O. Panzardi Sr. Public Sector Mgmt.
                    Spec.                      LCSPS   Task Team Leader

Fernando Rojas      Lead Public Sector         LCSPS   Public Sector Issues
                    Mgmt.Specialist
Linn Hammergren     Sr. Public Sector Mgmt.    LCSPS   Institutional and Legal
                    Specialist                         Reform Specialist
Beatriz Merino      Sr. Public Sector mgmt.    LCSPS   Change Management
                    Specialist
Zeinab Partow       Country Economist          LCSPE   Country Economist
Reynaldo Pastor     Senior Counsel             LEGLA   Legal issues
Morag van Praag    Senior Finance Officer      LOAG1   Financial Sector issues
Paul Sisk           Senior Financial Mgmt.     LOAA    Financial Management
                    Specialist
Antonio Blasco      Financial Management       LCOAA   Financial Management
                    Specialist
Wolfgang Koehling Economist                    LCSPS   Economic Background
                                                       and Institutional
                                                       Design
Graciela Sanchez-   Civil Society Specialist   LCC7C   Transparency
Martinez
Emilio Rodriguez    Procurement Specialist     LCOPR   Procurement
Jorge Segura        Institutional Reform       CONS    Institutional Reform
                    Specialist                         Implementation
Olivier Lafourcade  Consultant                 CONS
Juan Gill Diaz      Consultant                 CONS    Tax Specialist
Nina Ohman          PS Consultant              LCSPS   Project Coordination
Sandra Alborta      Language Program Assistant LCSPS   Program Assistant -
                                                       ACS


Supervision/NCO
Roberto O. Panzardi Senior Public Sector       LCSPS    TTL
                    Management Specialist
Fernando Rojas      Lead Public Sector         LCSPS    Public Sector Issues
                    Mgmt.Specialist



                                          5

Reynaldo Pastor     Senior Counsel                LEGLA       Legal issues
Linn Hammergren     Sr. Public Sector Mgmt.       LCSPS       Institutional Change
                    Specialist                                and Legal Reform
Beatriz Merino      Sr. Public Sector mgmt.       LCSPS       Change management
                    Specialist
Graciela Sanchez-   Civil Society Specialist      LCC7C       Transparency
Martinez




(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

    Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                    No. of staff weeks      (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
             FY04                                                            166.11
             FY05                                                            207.15
             FY06                                                             12.90
             FY07                                                              0.00

                        Total:                                       386.16
Supervision/NCO
             FY04                                                              0.00
             FY05                                                              0.45
             FY06                                                            105.37
             FY07                                                             20.97

                        Total:                                       126.79




                                          6

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Note, December 4, 2003
2. Project Appraisal Document, March 7, 2005




                                         7

