Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1200 
Project Name 
Paraguay - Strengthening of the Ministry of Finance 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (80%); General Finance sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P087036 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 7, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February 14, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
March 31, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Paraguay is a land-locked country with a small, open economy that is highly concentrated in the 
agricultural sector (cotton, cattle, timber, and recently, soybeans) with an estimated GDP of US$ 
6.6 billion (2004).  It is one of the poorest countries in the region with a per capita income of 
about US$ 1100
1
The country’s main trading partners are its immediate neighbors, Brazil and 
Argentina, and its major source of labor income is the agricultural sector where cotton and 
soybeans are its primary commodities.  This limited diversification, coupled with weak capacity 
in economic management, has increased Paraguay’s vulnerability to external shocks and natural 
disaster. Most recently the economic crises in Argentina and Brazil, their respective exchange 
devaluations, and collapsing agricultural commodity prices prompted Paraguay’s downward 
economic spiral. 
 
Although economic management was gradualist and fairly prudent in the years following the end 
of the military dictatorship in 1989, with balanced fiscal accounts, small current account deficits 
and declining inflation, growth performance was disappointing. Protracted slow growth, and 
negative growth in recent years, reflects a decline in total factor productivity associated with a 
shrinking investment ratio, slow progress with structural reform, emerging fiscal deficits, and 
widespread corruption.  
 
Poor policy performance was exacerbated by a series of external and domestic events. Major 
banking crises in 1995 and in 1997-98 led to the closure of a number of domestic banks, the 
reduction of credit to the private sector, and a sharp drop in private investment. Paraguay’s terms 
of trade deteriorated significantly after the mid-1990s and the country suffered droughts in 1999, 
2000, and most recently in 2002. The economy was battered by adverse developments in its main 
trading partners, namely the Brazilian devaluation of 1999 and the recession and financial 
turmoil in Argentina in 2001-2002. 
 
1
Gross National Income per capita for 2003, Atlas method. 
Page  2
The combination of external vulnerability and a poor policy environment resulted in 
exceptionally poor growth performance, particularly since the mid-1990s. While GDP growth 
averaged 1 percent per year, annual population growth stood at 2.5 percent. The outcome has 
been a secular decline in per capita GDP to pre-1990 levels. Poverty was estimated at 41 percent 
in 2003 with the extreme poor making up 20
 
percent of the population. Poverty is concentrated 
in the rural areas where half of Paraguay’s population lives, and is exacerbated by polarized 
income and land distribution.    
 
In 2002, worsening economic conditions came to a head as GDP fell by 2.3 percent, leading to 
an over 4 percent contraction in per capita income. Inflation rose to double digits, the guaraní 
depreciated by nearly 40 percent, and the public sector’s fiscal situation deteriorated sharply, 
recording a deficit of 3.1 percent of GDP. As a result of the depreciation, public external debt 
climbed to nearly 50 percent of GDP from 33 percent a year earlier. Given Paraguay’s lack of 
access to financing, either internal or in the international capital markets, the fiscal gap was 
financed by a combination of delays in public sector salary payments, postponement of public 
investment expenditures, the drawing down of deposits at the Central Bank and the accumulation 
of arrears to creditors and suppliers. At the end of 2002, arrears on debt service amounted to 
almost 3 percent of GDP. 
 
Upon taking office on August 15th 2003, President Nicanor Duarte Frutos’ administration 
quickly focused on the most critical impediments to sustained economic growth and poverty 
reduction in Paraguay. These reforms included controlling expenditures, a public sector wage 
freeze, and short-term revenue measures, including a crackdown on tax evasion. The new 
administration, enjoying substantial political support, has since achieved important advances in 
its program of economic reforms.  Economic performance has also been positive in 2003 and 
2004 with GDP expanding by an estimated 2.6 and 2.9 percent respectively.   
 
In October 2003, the President signed a Political Agreement with the heads of both houses of 
Congress and with opposition party leaders to pass a series of economic reforms designed to 
constrain current expenditures, tackle key fiscal drains on the public accounts, enhance tax and 
tariff revenues, and address urgent vulnerabilities of the economy such as those associated with 
the financial sector and public enterprises. These bills included an austere budget for 2004, the 
renegotiation of domestic debt obligations with commercial banks, a tax reform bill to widen the 
tax base and eliminate loopholes and exemptions, laws to strengthen the banking system through 
improved bank resolution and deposit insurance and to reorganize ailing public banks, legislation 
reforming the government employees’ pension plan which was the major drain on public 
finances, a new customs code to modernize and strengthen the customs administration, and a 
plan for the restructuring of public administration. Of the eight bills included in the agreement, 
six have already been approved by Congress (the 2004 budget law, debt restructuring, deposit 
insurance and bank resolution, the government pension law, the tax reform, and the customs 
code).  
 
The Government also reached an agreement, 15 months Stand-By Arrangement (SBA), now 
extended for six months, with the IMF and re-activated the lending program with the Bank. 
Under the SBA the Government agreed to support and quickly launch an economic adjustment 
and reform program.  They agreed in a program that included the package of key economic laws. 
Page  3
During 2003-2004, Congress approved: (i) the 2004 Budget Laws to tight control on current 
spending, (ii) the Tax Law to increase fuel taxes in 1 percent of GDP on an annual basis, (iii) the 
Government Pension Law to increase retirement age, increase years of services for retirement, 
reduce the replacement rate and increase contribution rates; and (iv) the Code Law.  
 
Moreover, the Government has already presented to Congress the following laws: (i) the 
Administrative Reorganization and Fiscal Adjustment law which seeks to widen the tax base 
form consumption and profit tax and includes a new vehicles tax, a personal income tax, the 
closure of more loopholes in VAT and the corporate income tax and increase in maximum tax 
rate; (ii) the General Banking Laws to strengthen the banking system through improved bank 
resolution and deposit insurance and to reorganize ailing public banks; and (iii) a Public 
Administration Restructuring Law.  Of the eight bills included in the agreement with the IMF, 
six have already been approved by Congress (the 2004 budget law, debt restructuring, deposit 
insurance and bank resolution, the government pension law, the tax reform, and the customs 
code).  Additionally, the Government has entered into agreements with commercial banks to 
reschedule over US$ 100 million in domestic debt which was complemented by accords with 
bilateral creditors to reschedule debt service arrears, this facilitated a significant reduction in 
domestic and external arrears.  
 
In addition to legislative advances, the Government has taken concrete actions to address some 
of
 the main immediate obstacles impeding Paraguay’s return to sustained economic growth and 
poverty reduction. A number of measures were swiftly implemented to halt growth of spending 
including withdrawal of budgetary supplements presented during the previous Administration 
and freezing of public sector wages. The administration also moved to tackle the pervasive 
problem of tax evasion and poor tax revenues. The results of this effort to date have been 
impressive: a 36 percent increase in tax revenues in 2004 as compared to 2003. More recently, in 
order to ensure that fiscal targets for the year are met, the Government announced the imposition 
of a temporary 4 percent tax on soybean industry exporters who traditionally bear a very low tax 
burden in Paraguay. 
 
Along side fiscal measures to contain spending and increase revenues, the Government has also 
embarked on a program of administrative measures to increase transparency and reduce waste 
and corruption in the public sector. These have included steps to begin the cleaning up of two 
state institutions: the state development bank (
Banco Nacional de Fomento
,
BNF) and the state 
social security institute (
Instituto de Previsión Social
,
IPS). The top command in the military and 
national police have been replaced and the Government succeeded in the difficult political 
challenge of changing two thirds of the judges sitting on the Supreme Court. The Administration 
has also taken actions in the areas of tax and customs administration. A census of public sector 
employees was recently completed which, in addition to playing a key role in rationalizing 
resources and enhancing the performance of the public sector, is serving to audit employee rolls 
in order to eliminate phantom workers and those illegally collecting more than one salary. 
Similarly, the government pension rolls are being cleaned, with 1600 non-justified pensions 
eliminated to date. 
 
The Government has made important progress in implementing Paraguay's Procurement Action 
Plan following the regulation of the recently approved Public Procurement Law and the 
Page  4
resolution creating the Directorate General of Public Procurement (DGCP).  A procurement 
portal has been launched on the Web.  At this stage, this website is an informational one which 
includes the annual procurement plans for state institutions, available bidding documents, the 
bulk of invitations to bid and contract awards, as well as a list of ineligible and black-listed 
contractors.  This is seen as the first step in a full-fledged electronic procurement system.  In 
addition, a public process for the competitive selection of the head and key staff of the DGCP 
has taken place, as have public hearings on the newly designed standard public bidding 
documents. Progress on these measures and the increased transparency of public procurement 
practices has already led to reductions in spending on goods and services and to more efficient 
public investment. 
 
The Government is implementing strategies to continue to improve financial management in 
Paraguay.  Public sector budgeting and accounting have been transformed and an integrated 
financial management system (SIAF) has been implemented in the central government and in 
some decentralized agencies.  The IDB has been supporting the Government in this effort 
through technical cooperation operations. Measures to introduce accrual accounting into the 
SIAF and to further expand it to other decentralized agencies were supported under the World 
Bank's Economic Recovery Structural Adjustment Loan approved in December 2003.  A peer 
review of the Comptroller General's (CGR) audit procedures is underway, and an internal audit 
manual for the CGR is being prepared.  The Government has announced that it will perform 
regular, independent audits of public enterprises which will also be subject to increased data 
publishing requirements to improve transparency.  Five such audits were performed in 2004, of 
the electric power utility, the telecommunications company, the telecommunications corporation, 
the urban water and sewerage company, and the social security institute.  This is part of an effort 
to improve efficiency and governance in Paraguay's public enterprises which, despite having a 
strong presence in key economic activities of the country, have been plagued by inefficient 
operations and inadequate financial management. 
 
The new Government’s track record has been encouraging, and the Administration has shown 
strong commitment to macroeconomic and fiscal stability.  This has begun to engender increased 
confidence by the private sector and has paved the way for implementing a financial sector 
reform program developed through years of collaboration between the Bank and successive 
governments.  
 
Finally, recent economic performance improved markedly in 2003 and 2004 with GDP 
expanding by an estimated 2.6 and 2.9 percent respectively.  The increased growth in 2003 was 
the result of a 12 percent expansion in the agriculture sector thanks to exceptionally high 
international prices of soybeans and cotton. Rising agricultural exports bolstered the guaraní 
which appreciated by close to 15 percent with respect to the US dollar over the year allowing 
inflation to return to single digits and international reserves to rise by 50 percent. After several 
years of deficits, tight spending policies and improved tax administration resulted in primary 
surpluses. These trends strengthened in 2004, as economic growth continued despite a drought, 
supported by favorable regional and global conditions.  Unlike 2003, growth was more balanced 
across sectors, with nearly all areas contributing to the economic expansion. Thanks to a 36 
percent rise in tax revenues and to constrained public spending, the central government achieved 
an estimated primary surplus of nearly 2 percent of GDP. The Guaraní remained stable, 
Page  5
depreciating by 5 percent with respect to the US dollar, and CPI inflation ended the year at 2.8 
percent.  Registered exports grew by nearly 30 percent in part due to strong soy prices and access 
to new export markets for meat. Imports expanded by almost 40 percent in the same period, 
reflecting both the economic recovery and higher petroleum prices. As a result, the current 
account surplus declined to 1.1 percent of GDP in 2004, from 2.4 percent in 2003. Net central 
bank purchases of foreign exchange have offset upward pressures on the currency from buoyant 
export earning and large private capital inflows, moderating the growth of the money supply, and 
increasing international reserves to US$ 1.2 billion at the end of 2004.  
 
2. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Ba
nk involvement in this operation is justified because of the Bank’s proven worldwide and 
regional experience in fiscal, financial and fiduciary issues, civil service reform, and anti-
corruption mechanisms. In particular, the Bank has accumulated expertise in the modernization 
of ministries of finance, and transformation of fiscal and financial management, including in 
LAC countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Guatemala, Peru and Colombia. The Bank’s 
involvement is also justified due to its long-standing and consistent technical assistance, advice 
and its growing presence in governance and institutional issues of Paraguay.  Finally, the Bank’s 
involvement in supporting the modernization of the Ministry of Finance is warranted because it 
is the development partner best able to accelerate public sector reform in Paraguay.  The project 
is crucial to improve the Ministry’s accounting and budgeting practices as well as to enhance the 
effectiveness of public services delivery, and to get the commitment of other higher officials to 
change throughout the government.  
 
3.    
Objectives 
The project development objective
is to support the Ministry of Finance’s efforts to improve 
fiscal sustainability and quality of public expenditures, by focusing on the Ministry’s strategic 
definitions and objectives and strengthening core products and increasing efficiency, 
effectiveness and transparency of its internal administrative and financial management systems, 
to become a Ministry of Excellence and serve as a model for overall government reform 
 
4.  
Description 
The project would support the Ministry of Finance’s efforts to improve fiscal sustainability and 
quality of public expenditures, by focusing on the Ministry’s strategic definitions and objectives 
and strengthening core products and increasing efficiency, effectiveness and transparency of its 
internal administrative and financial management systems, to become a Ministry of Excellence 
and serve as a model for overall government reform. 
 
As result of this reform the Ministry of Finance will be able to track and monitor expenditures, 
provide reliable macroeconomic and fiscal data and forecasting, reduce spending by 
consolidating processes and provide a framework for medium term budget planning. The project 
will focus on specific areas for the substantive reforms: budgeting, treasury and financial 
management, fiscal planning, tax policy and debt management. The bureaucratic changes will be 
implemented through a combination of integrating information technology to improving 
information sharing and processing, as well as organizational and procedural changes across the 
Ministry such as accounting, reporting and communication, IT, personnel management, and 
procurement.  An integral part of the change management is the introduction of a transparency 
Page  6
unit, which will shift the incentives within the Ministry through enhanced transparency and 
monitoring by civil society 
 
In line with the overall objective, the project would consist of three main components in addition 
to the project implementation unit, which is necessary to ensure the adequate management and 
implementation of the project. 
 
Component 1 
Improvement of Core Products ($3.25 million) 
This component focuses on 
substantive technical reforms within the Ministry of Finance, i.e. on the key core functions the 
Ministry should effectively and efficiently complete in order fulfill its role as a key actor in the 
country’s economic development and planning efforts. The component would, therefore, support 
the improvement of fiscal and economic medium term planning for policy formulation, 
implementation and monitoring.  This will be achieved through substantive reforms in the 
Ministry of Finance and, particularly, capacity building within the areas of economic, fiscal and 
financial management. 
 
Component 2 
Business Processes Reengineering and Information Management ($3.25
 
million) 
This component focuses on the improvement of the institutional and systemic issues of 
organization and cross-support. It would provide technical assistance for the diagnosis, design 
and implementation of organization reforms, training and monitoring.
 
Component 3 
Transparency, Communication and Civil Society Monitoring 
($0.9 million) 
The Minister of Finance considers the fight against corruption and efforts to improve 
professional ethics a major and critical challenge. Thus this component would support 
transparency, Civil Society Monitoring and Evaluation and communications strategy.  
 
Component 4 
Project Management  ($0.9 million) 
The project will be implemented by the 
Ministry of Finance (MOF) through its 
Unidad de Coordinación de Inversión Pública 
(UCIP). 
UCIP will act as project coordination unit (PCU) and will provide support to the Ministry of 
Finance in designing, implementing and monitoring policies and institutional reforms.
 
1. 
Financing
 
Source: ($m.) 
RECIPIENT  
0.8 
IBRD 7.5 
 Total
8.3 
 
2. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation)
 
This project currently triggers none of the Bank’s environmental or social safeguard policies.   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Page  7
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[x ]  
3. 
Contact point
 
Contact: Roberto O. Panzardi 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-9261 
Fax: (202) 522-3134 
Email: Rpanzardi@worldbank.org 
 
4.  Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Contact:  Pedro Espinola 
Title: Project Coordinator - PCU 
Ministry of Finance 
Asuncion, Paraguay 
Tel (595-21) 442299 
 
5. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
