Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
CONCEPT STAGE
Report No.:  AB453
Project Name
Paraguay 
-
 Strengthening of the Ministry
Region
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN
Sector
Central government administration (100%)
Project ID
P087036
Borrower(s)
GOVERNMENT OF P
ARAGUAY
Implementing Agency
Environment Category
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Safeguard Classification
[ ] S
1
[ ] S
2
[ ] S
3
[ ] S
F
[ ] TBD (to be determined)
Date PID Prepared
November 7, 2003
Estimated Date 
of 
Appraisal Authorization
April 16, 2004
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval
June 25, 2004
1.
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
Since the end of the three
-
decade long Stroessner dictatorship, Paraguay has been struggling to 
establis
h a successful market based economy with sustainable and equitable growth.  Its efforts 
have  been  impeded  in  large  part  due  to  institutional  weaknesses,  contributing  to  inefficient 
governance, widespread corruption and the expansion of informal institution
s outside a state
-
backed system and legality. 
This development is reflected in a continuing low performance of 
Paraguay in all leading governance indicators.
1
The overall financial and economic situation has deteriorated in the past five years dramaticall
y. 
Per capita GDP dropped by US$800 to US$1,000 since 1998 and is now even lower than in 
1990. The structural imbalance of revenues and expenditures created substantial and prolonged 
primary deficits causing a financial crisis culminating in the default on
 national and foreign debt 
as well as public service salaries and pensions. These fiscal problems aggravate the public’s 
distrust and reservations towards the government and public service in general.
During the past few years, Bank engagement in Paraguay
 lessened in part due to the country’s 
fiscal  problems
2
.    In  an  effort  to  tackle  pressing  fiscal  and  governance  challenges,  the  new 
government  moved  quickly  to  request  assistance  for  the  Economic  Recovery  Structural 
Adjustment Loan (PERL), which will be pr
esented to the Board together with the new Country 
Assistance  Strategy  in  December  this  year.    The  justification  for  this  loan  rests  on  the 
government’s  commitment  to  ambitious  plans  for  structural  and  policy  change,  including 
extensive administrative refo
rms and anti
-
corruption programs.
1
 Paraguay ranked consistently as one of the ten lowest countries Transparency International’s Global Corruption 
Perception Index and achieves similar ratings o
n the World Bank's six governance indicators.
2
 “Paraguay: Role of the State.  Bank Report.  1997.
Page  2
To support the implementation of the administrative and governance changes under the PERL, 
the  Bank  has  agreed  to  provide  technical  assistance  in  the  form  of  an  Institutional  and 
Governance  Review  (IGR)  to  analyse  the  for
mal  and  informal  circumstances  impeding 
institutional,  political,  economic  and  social  development,  and  a  Public  Sector  Technical 
Assistance  Loan  (PSTAL)  to  support  the  Ministry  of  Finance  in  Creating  a  Ministry  of 
Excellence.
The entering government of Ni
canor Duarte Frutos, which took office on August 15, 2003, has 
moved quickly to advance some critical changes in political conditions allowing the Bank to 
assist the government in implementing broad
-
based governance and administrative reforms. The 
GOP  has 
identified  corruption,  state
-
capture,  and  lack  of  transparency  as  the  key  areas  for 
intervention. As a first step, the President as well as the Minister of Finance, Dionisio Borda, 
have proposed to take the lead and implement changes in the areas of manage
ment of public 
finances, governance and administrative reforms to transform the Ministerio de Hacienda into a 
Ministry of Excellence.
Implementing administrative and institutional changes in the Ministry of Finance not only sends 
a signal to the other min
istries and government agencies.  It would have an immediate impact on 
the performance of public institutions, through the budgetary, monitoring and evaluation, and 
financial oversight functions of the ministry.   In addition to the central role of the Min
istry of 
Finance,  the  endorsement  of  the  President  and  the  Minister  of  Finance  ensures  the  required 
ownership and political support for such a difficult and politically risky reform.
The PHRD Technical Assistance proposal (to be approved this month by the
 PHRD Committee) 
has already identified key areas of the proposed operation.  The PHRD will finance preparatory 
activities that would provide the foundation for the identification of the PSTAL. 
The  proposed  PSTAL  operation  is  consistent  with  previous  Cou
ntry  Assistance  Strategies 
(CAS),  as  well  as  the  new  CAS  under  preparation,  which  have  consistently  called  for 
strengthening public institutions and public services.   In the light of Paraguay’s continuously 
low governance performance, the GOP decided  to m
ake the recovery of confidence of state 
institutions and the civil society participation the cornerstones of the development strategy. The 
fight against corruption and modernization of the public administration as well as participation in 
the areas of publ
ic policy formulation and expenditure control are part of the strategic pillars of 
the government development strategy.
The new CAS calls for assistance to improve basic crosscutting administrative systems such as 
the integrated financial management inclu
ding asset management, procurement, and personnel 
management, within the Ministry of Finance and its respective Directorates, and in the rest of the 
Central Government. This aim will be helped by the transfer of several of these central offices 
(planning, 
procurement, human resources) to the ministry itself and by the ministry’s creation of 
its own office to promote civil society monitoring of its operations.  The conversion of the 
Ministerio  de  Hacienda  to  a  centre  of  excellence  is  thus  a  necessary  first  s
tep  to  improve 
financial management, eliminate corruption, increase transparency and encourage civil society 
involvement in the planning and monitoring of results.  It is pivotal to implement the proposed 
changes promptly and thoroughly, in order to mainta
in the public support for the reforms.  This 
Page  3
support is likely to dissipate rapidly if some immediate progress is not soon visible.  Reflecting 
the urgency of Bank assistance, the PERL is scheduled for Board Approval together with he new 
CAS in December th
is year. The PSTAL at the same time would ensure the success of the PERL 
through providing assistance for the accompanying the necessary administrative and institutional 
reforms. 
The proposed operation also would build on the recommendations from the Cou
ntry Financial 
Accountability  Assessment  (CFAA)  and  the  Country  Procurement  Report  (CPAR).    In  both 
cases time bound actions plans have been agreed with the Government.   
2.
Proposed objective(s)
The  project  objective  is  to  support  the  Ministry  of  Finance’
s  effort  to  improve  efficiency, 
effectiveness and transparency in its internal administrative and financial management systems, 
recreating itself as a Ministry of Excellence and a model for overall governance reform.  By 
doing this, it is expected to achie
ve the improvement of financial management, elimination of 
long
-
standing  corrupt  practices,  increase  access  of  information,  and  encourage  civil  society 
involvement in the planning and monitoring of results.
3.
Preliminary description
The  project  would  supp
ort  the  design  and  implementation  of  the  Ministry  of  Finance’s 
reorganization, business reengineering, access of information and delivery of services.  It will 
also provide assistance to strengthen the budget, human resources, procurement, control, anti
-
co
rruption  and  planning  sub
-
systems  and  to  expand  them  within  the  rest  of  the  central   
government and regions (7 
Gobernaciones)
 to ensure that these public institutions are capable of 
responding to the Ministry's improve rules and practices.
In line with t
he objectives, the project would consist of three main components in addition to the 
project implementation unit, which is necessary due to the limited capacity of the government to 
manage and implement the operation. 
Component 1 
\01
 Institutional and Orga
nizational Reforms:
This 
component 
would 
provide 
technical 
assistance 
for 
the 
diagnosis, 
design 
and 
implementation, training and monitoring of:
a.
Organizational Reform
:
Reorganization of the Ministry in order to develop and achieve the 
Ministry’s own visio
n, mission and strategic actions. Increase accountability, increase efficiency, 
improve service delivery and improve access through: (a) development of a simplified design 
with clear functions, simplified process, and improved service delivery; (b) impleme
ntation of a 
short,  medium,  and  long  term  Action  Plan  to  implement  the  new  design;  and  (c)  selected 
information access and functioning internal and external control mechanisms agreed with the 
Civil Society.
Page  4
b.
Civil Service Reform:
 Plan and implement compreh
ensive civil service reforms thorough the: 
(a) redesign and upgrade the National System of Human Resources (SINARH) in coordination 
with 
Función  Publica
  to  create  a  national  human  resource  management  system  including 
modules to manage and administer: (i) e
ntry exams, (ii) performance evaluations, (iii) training 
plans, (iv) personal and administrative evaluations, (v) human resource planning, (vi) personnel 
budget  planning,  personnel  history  records  and,  (vii)  payroll  and  pension  administration;  (b) 
design a
nd implementation of the HR information system; and (c) 
assistance for the purchase and 
installation of hardware, communications and software as needed.
Component 2 
\01
 Financial and Economic and Fiscal Policy Reforms:  
This  component  would  support  the  improvement  of  fiscal  policy  formulation  through 
administrative reforms in the Ministry of Finance and through capacity building within the areas 
of economi
c and fiscal policy. The objective would be the improvement of fiscal planning and 
management.
a.
Administrative and Financial Reforms
: (i) design and implementation of administrative and
financial 
management 
systems 
in 
the 
Ministry 
of 
Finance 
\01
 
integrated 
f
inancial 
management, program and result
-
linked budgeting, human resources and procurement; (ii) 
Capacity building to disseminate and implement those systems through out the public sector; 
(iii)  strengthening  of  the  Ministry’s  internal  auditing  unit  and  cap
acity;  (iv)  improve 
mechanisms to monitor transparency and fiscal responsibility in key functions and agencies 
(public pensions, tax evasions); and (v) civil society participation in monitoring institutional 
goals, incentives and performance indicators.
b.
C
oordination  of  new  financial  management  systems  with  control  entities  (Contraloria, 
Tribunal de Cuentas, and Auditoria del Estado
):
  under current plans, control is the only 
critical horizontal system not directly located or soon to be located in the minis
try.  While the 
ministry  intends  to  strengthen  its  own  capacity  for  overseeing  and  controlling  financial 
management, the control organs will play a vital part in the new arrangements.  The loan will 
support the ministry in working with them to ensure their
 review practices reflect the new 
requirements  and rules,  especially  as regards  attention to corruption  and management by 
results.
c.
Economic and Fiscal Policy
.  (i) definition of the functions, organization, and resource needs 
of  the  Secretary  of  Economy  a
nd  Integration 
\01
  overseeing  economic  studies,  and  loan 
operations;  (ii)  capacity  building  in  the  areas  of  preparation,  evaluation  and  impact 
measurement of macro
-
economic, fiscal, sector, debt and trade liberalization policies; (iii) 
improve  the  institutio
nal  capacity  fight  tax  evasion  and  improve  tax  collection  via  the 
judiciary building on the IDB’s program which provided an automated system for tracking 
tax  collection  cases;  and  (iv)  assistance  to  the 
Caja  Fiscal
  (Government  Pensions)  in 
rationalizing th
e pension system.
Component 3 
\01
 Decentralization of Budgeting, Procurement and Planning Systems
This component would strengthen the budgetary, procurement, and planning systems within the 
rest  of  the  central  government  and  7  regions  (
Gobernaciones)
  to  facilitate  an  adequat
e 
Page  5
decentralized response to the new norms and systems introduced by the ministry.    It would 
provide training of departmental governments’ staff in financial management and development 
of an improved disbursement system of fiscal transfers from Ministry of 
Finance to the regions 
and it would allow the tracking of their expenditures. The tasks within the component would be 
determined during the appraisal phase. 
Compone
nt 4 
\01
 Reform Management:
The  Project  Coordination  Unit  will  provide  support  to  the  Ministry  of  Finance  to  design, 
implementation and monitoring policy and institutional reform.
The World Bank loan of approximately $5
-
10 million would finance an estimate
d 80 percent of 
the total project cost of $6
-
12 million.  The loan would be used to finance technical assistance, 
training,  small  amount  of  hardware  and  software,  and  professional  staff  of  the  Project 
Coordination Unit (PCU).  Consultant services, training
 and purchases of computers software 
and related information technology items would be major focus of the project.  Government 
resources would finance infrastructure and logistical expenses.
A PCU within the Ministry of Finance would be the principal un
it overseeing the design and 
implementation of the program.  The PCU would be headed by a National Director and staffed 
by  nationals  with  relevant  experiences  in  the  field.    The  PCU  will  be  responsible  for  the 
coordination of the Public Administration (
Fun
ción Publica)
 in the redesign of the National 
System of Human Resources (SINARH) and the regions (
Gobernaciones)
 in issues related to 
implementing financial management systems. The PCU will be responsible for administration of 
project funds, monitoring and
 reporting, and contracting procedures.
4.
Safeguard policies that might apply
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to ass
ess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
5.
Tentative financing
Source:
($m.)
BORROWER
0
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
10
Total
10
6.
Contact point
Contact: Roberto O. Panzardi
Title: Sr P
ublic Sector Mgmt. Spec.
Tel: (202) 473
-
9261
Fax: (202) 522
-
3134
Email: Rpanzardi@worldbank.org
Page  6
