Document or
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rbmw Ne. 7696-TUE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
APRIL 6, 1989
Population and Human Resources Divisior.
Country Department II
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This documen' has a trescdted disttlbutin and moy be used by recpients ooly in the perfon»nce of 
t heir offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witkout Worid Bm authoriotio 



REPUELIC OF TUNISIA
EDtmIATIOHw Am! TEAIEINC SECTOR LMA
STA"F APPRAISAL REPOT
CURXERCy BQUIVALeNTS
(As of Deember 1988)
Currency Unit            =              Tuflsian Dinar (TD)
US$1.00                   =             TD 0.86
TD 1.00                   =             US$1.16
tISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Bac   Baccalauréat
High School Diploma
CFP   Centre de Formation Professi,,melle
Vocational Training Center
CRIP  Centre de Ressources et d'Ingénierie Pédagogique
Pedagogical Engineering and Resource Center
ENI   Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs
Primary Teacher Training School
ENS   Ecole Normale Supérieure
Higher Teacher Training Institute
ITM   Introduction aux Travaux Manuels
Introduction to Practical Work
MAS   Ministère dts Affaires Sociales
Ministry of Social Affaira
MEN   Ministère de l'Education Nationale
Ministry of Educatior
MESRS Ministère de l'Enseignement Supérieur et de la Recherche Scientifique
Ministry of Higher Education
OFPE Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de l'Emploi
Office of Vocational Training and Labor
TFP   Taxe à la Formation Frofessionnelle
Vocational Training Tax
UTICA Union Tunisienne pour l'Industrie, le Commerce et l'Artisanat
National Union for Industry, Trade and Crafts



FMOImciICL Un ONLY
STAF  PPISL eEPR-
EICÂTioE AuD T1uliiUcSETRL
IUELIC 0F TUISIA
LOAN SU                                                                     A
BASIC DATA                                                                iv
I.   I immouCic S                                                          1
Il.  lu IDUCUIO WMD Au     IUICC SECTRO                                    4
Overviev of the Sector                                                4
Major Issues iu the Education Sector                                  5
Acceta to Education                                                5
Quality of Education                                               6
Efficiency of Educational Administration                           7
Budgetary Constraint                                               8
Major Isaues in Vocational Training                                   9
Training for Employment                                            9
Apprenticeship and Dual Training                                   9
Mobilizing Resources for Training                                 10
Relevance and Quality of Training Programs                        il
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending              il
Government Strategy                                               il
Bank Lendin8 Strategy for the Sector                              il
Experience vith Past Lending                                      12
III. TEE RYOR  PIOGEA                                                     14
Objectives                                                           14
Policy Actions in General Education                                  14
Introduction of a 9-year Basic Education Cycle                    14
Restructuring Secondary Education                                 14
Teacher Training Refora                                           15
Reforn  of Programs and Curricula                                 15
Institutional and Administrative Reforms                          16
Policy Actions in Vocational Training                                16
Institutional and Administrative Reforma                          16
Measures Aiming at Improving Linkages vith Productive Sectors 17
Promoting Apprenticeship Training and Dual Training               17
Reforu of Programs and Certification                              17
Changing the Status of Instructors                                18
Reforu of the Vocational Training Tax                             18
Projected Impact of the Refor                                        18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission vhich visited
Tunisia in December 1988. The mission comprised Mr. B. Laporte (Senior
Education Economist, mission leader), Mme. C. Kleynhoff (Operations Officer),
Messrs. G. Za'rour (Senior Educator), P. Mersier (Vocational Training
Specialist), G. Brest van Kempen (Architect).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank: authorization.



IV.  luE   Eo Im                      LOU                                20
Rationale and Objectives                                            20
The Investuont Progrea                                              20
Part A: Ministry of  duceation                                      20
Rebabilitat4ou of Fxistina Priar7 and Secovlary 8chools         20
Construction of School Cantemns                                  21
Construction of Nev Schools (grade! 7, 8 and 9)                  21
Co  loel ta!ry EquUpumt Progr _                                 21
Distribution of Books and Educational Katerials                  22
Institutional Develop.ent                                       22
In-service Training for Teacher^i                               23
Part B: Office of Vocational Trairing and Emplcyment                24
Developuent of Sectoral Training Centers                         24
V.   PROJECT COSTS, FIInCING, IPLBUUTION AuD DISBUiSUMEUS                26
Project Costa                                                       26
Sumary of Project Costa                                          26
Basie of Cost Estimates                                          28
Custom Duties and Taxes                                          28
Contingencies Allovances                                        28
Foreign Exchange Component                                      28
Project Financing                                                   28
management and Implementation                                       29
Management Structure                                             29
Implementation of the Project                                   29
Monitoring and Evaluation                                        30
Maintenance                                                         30
Procurement                                                         30
Technical Assistance                                                32
Statua of Preparation                                               32
Diabursements                                                       33
Special Accounts                                                    33
Accounts and Audits                                                 33
VI.  REEEfTS MID lISES                                                   34
VII  AGREDIENTS TO BE RUCIED AT NEGOTIATIONS                             35



1.   Policy Katrix
2.   Criteria for Selection of Sub-Projects
3.   Basic Education Statistica
4    Basic Data on the Vocational Trailda\g Sector
5.   Education Sector Invetaent end Curremt Budgets
6    Om   Inves tent and Current Bud8ets
7.   Performance Indicators
8.   Impact of the Education Reforu
9. Criteria for the Distribution of bocks and educational matertale.
I.   Technical Assistance Schedule
II. Implementation Schedule
III. latiuated Schedule of Loan Diabursement
CTS
I.   The Structure of the Education System prior to the Reforu
II. The Nev Structure of the Education System
III. Organizational Chart - MEN Central Administration
IV. Organizational Chart - OFPE Central Administration
V.   Organizational Chart - MEN  Regional Administration
VI.  Organizational Chart - OFPE Regional Administration



EPMUIC Or TUJI
DnUghZIDLAu TRAxinG SECTOI  OA
STAFF A?î RAISAL REPORT
Borro9er:      lepublie of Tunisia
US$95 million equivalent
Zama:           Seventeen years, including f ive yearu gracc, at the standard
variable inte:rest rate.
Description:   The proposed sector loan would support the first nhaue of
implementation of the Government's education and training
sector reform and vould assist the Borrover in carrying out
reform activities during th.s phase. The objectives of the
refor.« program are to make the provision of education more
consistent vith the country's medium-term development needs,
more equitable, and more cost-effective. It would do this
through three policy changes: (i) allocation of a larger share
of resources to quality basic education cycle (grades 1-9);
(ii) improvement in the quality and relevance of secondary
education (grades 10-13) while better controlling access to it;
(iii) promotion of pre-service aid in-service training in
collaboration with companies in the productive sectors, and
mobilization of additional resources for training. The content
and timing of the specific reform measures, prepared jointly
with the Bank over the past year and reviewed at appraisal has
been discussed and agreed with Government during negotiations
and reflected in a supplemental letter. The Loan would support
the above-mentioned policies by financing a core set of
hign-priority investments, vithin an agreed orerall investment
program needed for a successful implementation of the -.eform
program. These include: (i) rehabilitation of some 1,600
primary and 330 secondary schools; (ii) construction of 800
scnool cauteens; (iii) construction of some 130 new upper basic
education schools of about 700 pupils each; (iv) distributioni
of educational materials and reading books; and (v) technical
assistance to improve the quality of programs and the
efficiency of educational management. Finally, the proposed
loan would finance the development of sector specific
vocational training centers in collaboration vith Industry
Associations, based on a sub-project approach.



jit)
The education reform program supported by the proposed loan is
expected to yield very significant development benefits for the
country. It would make the provision of education more
consistent vith the country's medium-tera needs and resources,
more equitable, and more cost-effective.  The reform progra.
vould restructure educaAion and training in Tnnisia so that a
auch larger nuwber of children vould benefit .rom sound
education and training helping prepare them for active careers
in a fast-changing economy. It vould reorient the system in
favor of basic education and would improve the quality and
efficiency of educational inputs. At the same time,
collaborative training with industry associations vould be
promoted. This vould make training programs more job-related
and vould make young people more employable. Quantitativc
benefita i-iclude an increase in the nurber of students enrolled
in upper basic education of 123,000 over the 1992-96 Plan and
152,000 over the 1997-2001 Plan and a decrease in the number of
drop outs, in grade 1 through 9 of 104,000 and 124,000
respectively. A significant portion of the additional costs
necessary to finance the expansion at the level of grades 7, 8
and 9 would be offset by a decrease in the number of atudents
in primary education due to improved erficiency rates and by a
reduction in the cost of training new teachers. The total
Ministry of Education (MEN) recurrent budget would grow at an
average yearly rate of 3.2 percent In real terms and its share
of total Government budget would remain at its current level of
about 25%.
Ri8ke:          The reform program also entails some riska.  The firet risk is
that some teachers may resaist the introduction of new
educational methods and in particular the utilization of
diagnostic tesluing and remedial instruction. The improvements
in pre- and in-service training for teachers should go a long
way to ensure acceptance of the new methods. The second risk
is that unexpected pressures on the government budget may
reduce the scope for austaining the steady lncrease in
investment allocations the sector program calls for and which
Parliament has already expressly approved. This could slow
down the implementation of the reforma, although the proposed
loan financing safeguards the most critical software
expenditures aimed at building quality improvements. Finally,
the Government may face strong opposition to forthcoming
proposals, complementary to the basic education reforma to
limit access to the upper levela of the education and training
system. However, the Tunisian public is increasingly iware of
the trade-offs in this area and Government is adamant that the
reform program will progresas teadily on track, as has indeed
been the case with all past reform comm'tments made by Tunisia
vithin the adjustment process.



<iii)
eati-ated Prolect Conte
Local   Poreigu   Total
- (US$ million) -
A.  School Peha.b:litation Progra  <lUI)                   12.1     12.0       24.1
B. Caateens for Primary Schoola (M1U)                      4.7       5.1        9.8
C. School Construction (M< )                              40.9      43.7       84.6
D. Compl..entary Bquipment Programa (MNi)                   0.6      1.5        2.1
E. Distribution of Books and Naterials (<KN)                 -       4.0        4.0
F.  Inatitutional Developsent (M<N)                         0.0      1.7        1.7
G.  Teacher Training (MUl)                                  6.4      1.2        7.6
H.  Development of Sectoral Training Centers (OFPE)         6.0     11.8       17.8
Total Baseline Costa                             70.7      81.0     151.7
Physical Contingencies                       7.1      8.1       15.2
Price Contingencies                         10.2      5.9       16.1
Total Pro4ect Coste                              88.0      95.0     183.0
Financing Plan:
Government                                           88.0                8 .0
IBRD                                                  -           0.L    250
Total                                             fL q       95L0     1830Q
Estimated Diabursemente
Bank Fiscal Year              90     91      92     ?3     94      95
------------- (US$ Million) ------------
Annual                1.2.0  16.5   19.5   23.0   17.5    6.5
Cuulative             12.0   28.5   48.0   71.0   88.5   95.0
Rate of Return: Not Applicable



- (iv) -
EDUCATION AND TIAINIIG SECTOR LOAN
SiAFF A PRAISAL REPORT
BaaSc Data
Couatry Data (1987)
Per Capita GNP:                         US$1,210
Total Population:                       7.5 million
Population £rovth rate:                 2.4%
Education (1987-88)
Enrollmentl/         Enrollment Ratiol/
Total     Female            Gross    Netlr   Female
(000)     as % Tot.                           Gross
Level 
Primary                    1,339        44.7%           117%     85%     107%
(Grades 1-6)
Lower Secondary              256        42.8%          49.5%    NA       42.9%
(Grades 7-9)
Upper Secondary              178        42.8%          27%       NA      23.6%
(Grades 10-13)
University                    44        37.2%          NA        NA      NA
Public Expenditures on Education (1987)
Central government education budget
as a % of total government budget4/:                                 16.0%
Central government education budget
as a % of GDP:                                                        5.1%
Central goverrment investment budget for
education as a % of government
investment budget:                                                    3*4%
Central government recurrent budget for
education as a % of government recurrent
budget4/1                                                            24.0%
1, Public plus private schooling.
ai Total enrollments as % of population in relevant age group.
Net enrollments as X of population in relevant age group.
4/ Including Debt Service
V1 A 



I. INT9OW CTIOh
1.01     After a decade of *trong grovth, the Tmisian econony *tarted to
experience difficulties in the early 1980. Oil production began to decline
as expected asd vorld prices fell, but the economie adjustuents necessary to
cope vith these changes vere slow in cominj. By 1985, external financing for
Tuimsia's high current account deficit became scarcer, threatening b balance
of payments orisis. After a br4ef period of denand restraint, the government
introduced policy revisions that have broadened into a vide-ranging program of
structural adjustment.
1.02     The Government's strong coumitment to the adjustfent program has been
supported by the Bank thàrough a series of adjustment operations. The
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL, US$150 million, approved by the
Board in September 1986) focussed on the price and incentive framework and on
public investment in the agricultural sector. The Industry and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loan (ITPAL, US$150 million, approved by the Board in February
1987) emphasized tariff adjustments, price decontrol, and fiscal reform. A
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL, US$150 million, approved by the Board in June
1988) supports continued liberalization of trade and prod-cer prices,
improvement in the system of direct and indirect taxation, and reforms in the
financial system. These reforms will be extended and deepened through a
proposed ,econd Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan and a proposed Public
Enterprîse Rehabilitation Loan.
1.03     The Tunisian aovernment is continuing its economic adjustment program
with a new emphasis on reform in the humar. resources sector. A major cc,ncern
for the government is the continuing higli level of unemployment (over
14 percent in 1988) despite significant decreases in the price of labor
relative to capital in the last five years. One of the most significant
features of this growing unemployment trend is the very low education level of
the unemployed people -- 60% of the unemployed have less than 9 years of
education. The economic adjustment program is likely to increase un-employment
in the short term as it reduces the size of the public sector. In the medium
and long-term, the demand for labor should increase as growth accelerates, and
the impact of past and present family planning efforts should moderate the
supply of labor at the same time as better education and training improve the
profile of the labor force and its responsivenesa to changing demand
conditions.
1.04     Tunisia has undertaken a massive ef.'ort to develop its human
resources, paying special attention to family welfare, education, and
training. As a result, from the early 1960s to 1985, infant mortality vas
more than halved from almost '60 to 60 per thousand, lIfe expectancy at birth
rose from 48 to 62 years, and adult literacy rates increased from 15 percent
to 62 percent. An active family planning policy led to a decline in birth
rates of 27 percent between 1935 and 1985. Mortality also declined by
45 percent, so population growth continues at 2.5 percent a year. The young
age structure of tne population together with the increasing entry of women
into paid work, caused the labor force to grow at 2.8 percent a year in the
mid-1980s -- slightly faster than population growth.



- 2 -
1.0'     The education and training system is called upon to p'ay a major role
in responding to the challenge cf a rapidly chA'zglng economy. Given Tunisia's
limited domestic market and the fact that most obvious import substitution
industries are elrGady vell developed, the Governuent is actively pursuing an
export driven growth strategy. This places a premium on the availability of a
highly skilled and vell educated labor force. At the same time, intense vorld
market competition -- in particular the development of a very active UEC
market -- and rapid technological change require the best çossible use of
human potential. In order to be internationally competitive in the next
century, Tunisia needs a labor force with much higher levels of mastery of
math, science and language skills than is presently the case. Ihere is an
urgent need to step up investments in education and training to enhance the
broad cognitive and problem solving skills and personal qualities that make
workers trainable and more productive. The Governinent is committed to a major
improvement of the education and training system, at the same time as it
reinforces its family plarning services.
1.06     Despite remarkable quantitative achievements in primary education
(99 percent of the 6 year olds are enrolled _n grade 1), there are still
serious shortcomings. Only 1 in 3 children go beyond grade 6, 1 in 5 go
beyond grade 9, and 1 in 20 progress to higher education. The internal
efficiency of the education system is seriously impeded by a lack of
facilities in secondary education (only 50 percent of grade 6 students reach
grade 7), together with the relatively poor quality of education prigrams.
Repetition rates are high (between 20 and 30 percent), and a sizeable number
of children who drop out during pr4mary education will lapse back to
illiteracy. The Ministry of Education (MEN) has offered various vocational
education programs, but in pract'ce these do not prepare 3tudents for specific
jobs. The type of labor force necessary for Tunisia's export develipment
strategy, requires the teaching of problem solvlng skills up to a level that
cannot be attained in six years. A key prerequisite for broadening individual
employment options and improving labor force productivity is access to an
expanded and reinforced cycle of basic education (grades 1 through 9), whether
it is followed by further formal education, vocational trair.ing, or direct
entry to the labor force.
1.07     In upper secondary schools (grades 10 - 13) there is a need to revamp
course offerings, update programs and ensure complementarity between technical
education offered by MEN and the vocational training programs run by the
Vocational Training and Employment Office (OFPE). The OFPE vocational
training system is hampered by weak labor market linkages and is not geared up
to production of highly skilled labor that the economy requires. Shortages of
skilled and technical manpower, particularly of technicians, may inhibit the
Government's effort to restructure the Tunisian economy and to sustain the
export drive. Shortages are particularly severe in industries which require
high standards of quality control, modern production techniques and
specialized machinery. The skills distribution of the workforce is striking
for the small proportion of professional occupation and particularly the low
number of technicians. Production and high level technicians represent only
3 percent of the total number of people employed in all branches of the
economy. There is an urgent need to develop training programns on the basis of
labor market signals. Productive sector involvement in program definition,
skill certification, and management and financing of training institutions is
also highly desireable.



- 3 -
1.08     To support the overall adjustmrnt proceus, the Government has decided
to engage in far-reaching reforma of the education and training syetem. These
reforms will be introduced in two phases. The firet phase, which will be
supported by the proposed lcan, is designed to expand education and training,
improve their cost-effectiveness, and make them more consistent vith the
country's medium-term development needs. Thi8 vouid be achieved through three
ajor policy changes: (i) allocation of a larger share of resources to quality
basic education cycle (grades 1-9); (ii) improvement In the quality nd
relevance of upper secondary education (grades 10-13), vhile better
controlling access to it; (tii) promotion of pre-service and in-service
training in collaboration with companies in the productive sectors, and
mobilization of additional resources for training.
1.09     The second phase of the reform, which is now being prepared with
extensive consultation, would introduce measures related to higher education.
The higher education system, under the aegis of a separate Governaent
department and with its independent budget, is still marked by serious
inefficiencies. The structure of programs and the content of curricula vere
geared toward meeting the needs of a civil service whose foreseeable
recruitment prospects are now severely limited.  At the same time, the needs
of an export-oriented private sector are largeiy unmet. Internal efficiency
is extremely low and a growing number of students leave UniversJty without a
diploma. Public resources devoted to higher education have increased on an
average of only 1.1% per annum between 1982 and 1986, while enrollments have
grown by about 7%. In 1988, the Bank completed a review of Higher Education
which emphasized the need to improve management, provide autonomy teo
University departments, restructure higher education programs and curricula,
and to address the problems of cost recovery and the role of the private
sector. The Government has already taken some initiatives such as the
reduction. and targeting of scholarahips, the introduction of a student loar.
system and the design of a new system which will provide more autonomy for
University departments. Further policy initiatives are being investigcted
with Bank assistance. in parallel vith the proposed reforma, the Governaent
and the Bank are also discussing a set of institutional and policy reforms
aimed at liberalizing labor markets and improving labor mobility.



4-
II. TEE EDUCATION AUl TIAINING SECTOR
Overviev of the Sector
2.01     Education in Tunisia is almoat entirely a governuent activity -- in
1986-87, 99 percent of primary ochool *tudents and 91 percent of secondary
achool students vere enrolled in governuent echools. However, 45 percent of
kinderga-tens vere run by municipalities, 34 percent vere private and the
remaining 21 percent vere *emi-private.
2.02     The Tunisian educational system la structured as follova (Chart I.
Structure of the Education System prior to the reform): a primary education
cycle of 6 years la folloved by a secondary cycle of 7 years' duration. The
latter is broken into a lover secondary cycle of 3 yearu and an upper
secondary cycle of 4 years. Entry to lover secondary school in based on an
entrance examination in which passing rates have usually been lov. This
examination thus serves to restrict the number of students entering lover
secondary school. Students who do not get into lover secondarj achool can
either go to special post-primary grades 7 and 8 - where manual vork la an
important part of the curriculum - or to a three-year vocational education
option which dose not permit entry into upper secondary school.  At the end of
lower secondary echool (grade 9), students who do not proceed to upper general
or technical secondary education can enter a three-year terminal
technical/vocational education leading to a technician diploma at the end of
grade 12. Finally, at the end of grade 13, stueents have to pasa a high
school diploma, the baccalauréat examination (Bat), to enter university.
2.03     A Basic Law of Education (enacted in 1958) stipulates tnxat public
education in Tunisia is free at all levels. But for pre-school education,
which is not an integral part of public education, municipalities tend to
charge lOTD/month (US$9). Private preschools charge between 20 and 25TD/month
(US$25 to 30). Although parents do not pay tuition fees for primary and
secondary education, they make a significant contribution in the form of
school uniforms, books and materials, transportation, and fees for
after-school remedial instruction. In 1972, the educational system vas
reformed with the goals of reducing the fiscal burden of education and
orienting education towards market needs. Limiting the growth of enrollment
in the upper grades vas the main way of achieving the first goal. To achieve
the second goal, government introduced: (i) programs involving manual vork
(ITM), firet in the primary school proper and later, around 1977-78, through
the special post-primary &rades 7 and 8 referred to above; and (ii) the
three-year vocational op:ion also referred to above. At the same time, the
existing technical education program in the upper secondary cycle was focussed
on industrial speciae'zations.
2.04     The Ministry of Education is responsible for the design and
development of educational policies. The central administration of the
Ministry covers all aspects of planning, development, implementation,
inspection and evaluation of education programe (Chart III). Regional
Delegations handle the implementation of policies and programs. In the case
of elementary education, 23 Regional Delegations had responsibility for about
3,500 schools in 1986-87 and in the case of secondary education 12 Regional
Delegations had responsibility for some 400 secondary schools. Basic data on
general education is provided in Annex 3.



-5
2.05     Secondary technical education and vocational training are provided by
KEN, the Office for Vocational Training and Labor (OFPE), technical ministries
and public enterprises, and by private training institutions (Annex 4). In
1986-87, KEN provided formal technical/vocational education covering 25
different specializations to about 52,000 *tudents in grades 7 to 9 leading tu
a skilled worker diploma; 26,000 students in grades 10 to 12 leading to a
technician diploma; and 9,000 students in grades 10 to 13 leading to the
technical Bac. The best performers in the technician stream may enroll in a
13th year of training in order to obtain the Bac and to enter university
education. OFPE is a public enterprise under the Ministry of Social Affairs
(MAS). Its main responsibilities are to design and implement employment
promotion policies and programs, mad to provide training either directly or
through other public and private institutions. The Vocational Training Law
stipulrtes that OFPE is also in charge of the coordination of all vocational
training activities in Tunisia.  OFPE is financed through t   sfers from the
General Budget. At the same time, a payroll tax (Taxe à la .ormation
Professionnelle, TFP), equal to 2 percent of the wage bill of companies in the
public and private sector, is collected by the Treasury.
2.06     OFPE provides formal training (for about 4,500 trainees in 1986-87),
and continuing vocational training (for about 3,000 people in 70 Vocational
Training Centers (CFP) in 1986-87). OFPE also provides apprenticeship
training. In 1986-87, 18,000 out of an estimated 68,000 apprentices in the
country vere registered with OFFE, but only 2,000 vere actually following
courses in OFPE's training centers. Technical ministries and public
enterprises run training programs to meet the needs of their respective
sectors. In 1986-87, some 8,600 trainees were enrolled mainly with the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Handicraft National Office, the Tourism National
Office and the Ministry of Public Health. Finally, a private vocational
training sector operates with a capacity of about 20,000 training places in
separate facilities, mainly for office/clerical skills.
Major Issues in the Education Sector
2.07     Despite the achievements of the past decades, access to basic
education is still denied to many, and there are still deficiencies in the
quality of education programs and in the efficiency of educational
administration and management. At the same time, the current budgetary
constraints make it unlikely that additional resources will be made available
to the sector.
Access to Education
2.08     There has been much improvement in the accessibility of schools to
children. The net enrollment ratio among 6-14 year olds increased from
60 percent in 1975 to 76 percent in 1984. Today, practically al! 6-year old
children are enrolled in first grade. Nevertheless, significant differences
exist in net enrollment ratios between urban and rural areas and between males
and females, as evidenced by Table 1 in Annex 3.
2.09     There has been a steady increase in the absolute number of children
in primary schools between 1981-82 (1 million) and 1987-88 (1.3 million).
However, the rate of increase in enrollment has been steadily declining --
5.8 percent in 1982-83 to 1.5 percent in 1987-88. The current rate of



-6
increase is belov the population growth rate and results from difficulties in
maintaining achool attendance among the most marginalized groupu of children
in underprivileged and dispersed rural and peri-urban communities. The growth
in enrollment in primary education (grades 1 through 6) has not been
paralleled by an increase in the capacity of lover secondary schools (grades
7-9). The success rate in the lover secondary admission examiniation has
generally been very low (27 percent in 1987), (Table 3 of Annex 3). This has
resulted ln sharply increased repetition and drop-out rates especially in the
upper grades (Table 2 of Annex 3).
2.10     The vocationally-oriented programs at the level of lover secondary
education 'special primary grades 7, 8 and the three-year terminal vocational
education program) have been used as a means to retain children who would
othervise be rejected from the system. These programs do not prepare for
specific jobs in the labor market, nor do they provide any sound technical
knowledge. The same can be said about the three-year technician training
program at the level of upper secondary education. There ls an urgent need to
phase out the very inefficient and costly MEN vocational education programs
and reallocate resources to an orderly expansion of lower general secondary
education (grades 7 to 9).
2.11     There is evidence that educational disparity among regtons, once a
significant problem, is being reduced. Furthermore, not all the disadvantaged
areas are rural or non-communal -- the highest failure rates in public
examinations are not all in rural or non-communal areas. Although fewer girls
than boys are enrolled in primary schools, the gap has been narrowing with a
steady increase in the proportion of girls from 42.3 percent in 1981-82 to
44.7 percent in 1987-88. At the secondary level, 32 percent of the
scholarship students are girls -- about the percentage of girls among boarding
students, but significantly lesa than the proportion of secondary school
students who are girls (42.8 percent). It is possible that parents are more
hesitant to send girls away from home to boarding schools. Providing more
schools for grades 7, 8 and 9 in the disadvantaged areas would help reduce the
gender gap as well as the disparity between regions. There is an urgent need
for extensive rehe.oilitation of some 1,600 primary and 300 secondary schools.
Adequate facilities, including sanitary blocks and canteens, are important in
schooling young children. At the moment, some 800 primary achools can only
provide cold meals to the students because they lack adequate canteens.
Ouality of Education
2.12     There is a widcspread impression among educators in Tunisia that the
quality of education has deteriorated. A large number of students seem not to
master the basic skills of reading, writing, and arithmetic by the end of
primary achool. Moreover, there are very high repetition rates throughout
primary education (between 20 and 30 percent) The main causes of these
quality problems are: programs and curricula; teacher training and teaching
practices; and educational resources.
2.13     Programs and Curricula.  Primary school curricula have been subjected
to changes through additions and deletions without benefit of an integrated
approach. For example the teaching of French has begun in either grades 2, 3
or 4 over the years because of fluctuating policies. The frequent changes
inject a feeling of instability among teachers and administrators as well as



- 7 -
children and parents a.J increase the cost and complexity of textbooks design
and distribution. There has also been nome inconsistency in whether
elementary achool teaching of French should focus on terminology used in
subjects that are taught in French in the eecondary achool, or on teaching
French as a modern language.
2.14     Another problem is that curricula are overloaded (<able 4 of
Annex3). Students at both primary and secondary levels suffer from
fluctuating classroom schedules. At nome grades the achedules are too heavy,
and the discrepancies among grades should be eliminated. There is also a need
to strengthen the science and technology curriculum and to update programs in
general.
2.15     Teacher Training and Teaching Practices.  Primary school teachers are
1-ained in eight Teacher Training Schools (Ecoles Nationales d'Instituteurs -
ENI) which recruit at the end of grade 9. Studies last four years, plus one
year of internship-cum-study. This system is costly (practically all students
are boarderu and receive otipends) and duplicates much of the general
secondary program. Recently, however, in order to meet the demand for new
teachers, the MEN has begun recruiting Bac graduates who attend approximately
four weeks of in-service training during their first year of teaching. There
are reasons to belieie, both on economic and pedagogical grounds, that
teachers should be recruited ar the baccalauréat level and provided with one
year of intensive study followed by a second year of internship combined with
further training.
2.16     Secondary teacher education takes place in two Higher Teacher
Training Institutes (Ecole Normale Supérieure, ENS), one specialized in
scientific subjects and the other in literary ones. Admission to ENS is
subject to the process of orientation that governe university admission for
Bac graduates. These ENS train secondary school teachers and trainers for the
various ENI as well as inspectors and pedagogic assistants. The program of
studies i. heavily subject matter-oriented throughout the four years.
Pedagogic training starts in the third year of study and is expanded during
the fourth year to include a study of teaching methods, classroom observation
and supervised practice teaching. The present teacher training needs to be
updated. New subjects, such as evaluation and testing, need to be introduced
as well. A one-year program for pedagogical training of licenced graduates
(Bac + 4) who are selected for secondary school teaching, should also be
developed.
2.17     The existing pool of teachers should also receive intensive
in-service training to acquaint themselves with the new elements of pedagogy
being introduced. At present, classroom teaching in secondary schools is
directed towards above average students. Those who cannot keep up are left
behind to repeat the class. There is a need to modify these practices and, in
particular, to introduce diagnostic testing and remedial instruction.
Efficiencv of Educational Administration
2.18     The structure of MEN has not generally been adapted to the very rapid
development and increasing complexity of the education system. Shortages of
qualified staff have beset the implementation of educational policies and
programs.
,.o9



2.19     Oraanizational structure.  The MEN's General Directorate of Programs
and Continuing Education has responsibility for curricula, textbooks, and
in-service teacher training. Curriculum development itself has been the vork
f,f committees made up of inspectors, teachers, MEN officials, and other
concerned groups. Currently, there are no curriculum development specialists.
The committees have a role to play in setting up general guidelines and
reviewing draft curricula, but the substantive ground work should be prepared
by a professional curriculum unit. Similarly, improvements in textbook
preparation and production depend on securing professionals for editorial,
design and layout, production, and distribution tasks.  The desireable
comprehensive approach to curriculum development with integration of a
textbook series would mean institutionalizing a cooperative process whereby a
group of designers, artists and photographers work with editors and authors.
2.20     Ber'ause of the importance of having good teachers, teachers
preparation and continuing professional education must be dealt with by a
single unit in MEN. Different aspects of teacher education are now handled by
a variety of directorates. Finally, the Directorate of Examinations is
currently a purely administrative body and does not contribute to the academie
content of examinations or to using the examination results to improve the
quality and efficiency of education. This Directorate's mandate should be
redefined to include appropriate testing mechanisms and the introduction of
diagnostic testing into the classroom.
2.21     Availabilitv of oualified staff.  In general, school directors and
administrators at the regional and central offices are appointed with little
Lanagement training. MEN officials are aware that measures need to be taken
to remedy this situation.
2.22     The duties of primary school inspectors are more administrative than
pedagogic. Furthermore, the number of teachers per inspector is high and
increasing (179:1 in 1981-82 compared to 225:1 in 1987-88). Pedagogic
guidance should be emphasized as it is important to the quality of education.
There also seems to be a shortage of well-trained inspectors who can promote
good school management and promote efficient resource use.
Budaetarv Constraint
2.23     During the Sixth Plan 1982-86, the largest share of public recurrent
expenditure went by far to the education sector, which accounted for over 27%
of total Government recurrent budget (Title I expenditure) or absorbed over
one third of recurrent operating expenditures (excluding debt service).
Education decisions were taken largely under the assumption that, as in the
past, budgetary resources will somehow become available. The need to adjust
to fiscal constraints prompted the authorities to limit the growth of
budgetary resources allocated to the educational ministries. Annex 5 provides
a breakdown of both investment and recurrent budgets by level of education
over the period 1980-1989. While the number of pupils in primary school grew
by 14.7 percent from 1982/83 to 1987/88, for the same period the recurrent
budget for primary education increased by 4 percent, in real terms. At the
same time the share of non-salary expenditures in the recurrent budget
decreased from 3.4 percent in 1983 to 2.6 percent in 1988. This means that
essentiJl educational materials have not been made available to the
classroom. In addition, existing schools are generally not equipped with



-9-
adequate libraries and there is a need to provide a core of standard reading
books, in addition to texta used in the classroom.   Given the inefficiencies
described in this chapter, the Government is hard pressed to implement
meamures capable of rapidly and substantially improving the sector's use of
physical, human and financial resources. Unlesa the Government acte promptly
to inatitute an appropriate program of education sector reform, the
continuation of present policies would translate into either larger claima on
public expenditures or in further deterioration in the quality of education.
Major Isues in Vocational Training
2.24     The serious unemployment situation which prevails today calls for
rapid resolution of the problems besetting the vocational training sub-sector.
The main ones are: the weak relation between traini.ig and employment, the slow
development of apprenticeship training and dual training, the lack of
resources for training, and the quality of training programs.
Trainina for Emalovment
2.25     The role of the Ministry of Education and of the Vocational Training
and Employment Office, the main provider of vocational training in Tunisia,
have not always been complementary. While the vocational education programs
referred to above are also provided by MEN, OFPE has been pressed to train a
growing number of achool leavers and school dropouts who do not necessarily
gain productive employment after their training period. OFPE has not been
able to adequately train young people for specific jobs in the labor market or
workers already in the work force, thus creating employer dissatisfaction with
OFPE training graduates. In future OFPE's training programa should be tightly
linked to economic needs rather than being driven by the supply of school
leavers.
2.26     Until recently, the government treated vocational training and labor
market management separately. With the recent creation of the OFPE, the
Vocational Training Office and Labor Office were combined, providing a good
opportunity (unique among countries in the sub-region) to focus on developing
appropriate labor market linkages (Chart IV). Appropriate industrial
representation in vocational training should be developed at the national
level so that policies can be shaped jointly with OFPE officials. Management
committees should be estasiished in all training institutions, so that
employers can have a grdater say and communicate more easily with the
centers. Finally, training agreements between OFPE and industry associations
should be promoted. This would help define the respective roles of the two
parties in establishing the objectives of training courses, in certifying
graduates and managing training centers.
ADvrenticeship Trainina and Dual Training
2.27     There is a long tradition of apprenticeship training in Tunisia.
However, until 1972 this training was mainly unregulated with apprentices
receiving all their training on the job without any oversight from specialized
training organizations. This type of training has not been successful.
Apprentices were not taught the theory of their trade, and their practical
training was geared to very narrow production activities. The apprenticeship
training system is often used as a way to recruit unskilled labor below the
minimum wage.



- 10 -
2.28     An Apprenticeship Training Law (No. 72-57) vas passed in 1972.  This
lav encourages enterprises in the modern sector to take apprentices by
alloving them to pay apprentices less than minimum vage and by providing other
financial incentives. Despite these incentives, the apprenticeship training
syste. has developed 8lovly.  In 1987, mome 18,000 young vorkers out of a
possible 68,000 had an apprenticeship training contract, of vhich only 2,000
vere actually released for the fev hours per veek needed to attend OFPE
vocational training courses. The apprenticeship training system needs to be
developed further as it is an important source of training for the groving
number of young people entering the labor market.
2.29     Another potential way of providing job skills to people is "dual"
training. Dual training combines on-the-job training and formal training
provided vithin formal training institutions. It should be tried, on a pilot
basis and extended to major productive sectors.
Mobilizini Resources for Training
2.30     The vocational training system is intended to play a major role in
the economy. A growing number of young people look at vocational training as
a vay to gain productive skills, and employers are avare of the benefits of
making the best use of their human resources, particularly in developing
export markets. Furthermore as the labor market becomes more flexible,
employees vill change job more often, making adult training of prime
importance for the future. It is unlikely that the OFPE will be able to meet
all these demands by itself and, accordingly, an increasing role should be
assumed by employers and by the private vocational training sector.
2.31     The reluctance of some employers to get involved in training
threatens Tunisia's economie development at a time when intense world market
competition and rapid technological change require the best possible use of
human potential. Employers need to invest in training either directly by
developing in-house training, or indirectly by sub-contracting -- whilst still
bearing the full cost of training -- to public or private training
institutions. OFPE should provide extension services to companies to help
them design and implement training plans.
2.32     Private vocational training is mainly geared towards the commerce and
services sectors. It is developing steadily (some 20,000 training places vere
available in 1988) but not fast enough to meet the groving need for qualified
manpower and from young people seeking jobs. Private vocational training la
regulated by the November 1958 Law which needs tO be revised to provide more
flexibility and appropriate incentives for potential private investors. The
present legislation does not allow accreditation of training centers for more
than a year, thus discouraging investment in facilities and equipment. At the
same time, OFPE could improve its advice to potential investors and its
control over the quality of programs.
2.33     A 2 percent payroll tax, called the vocational training tax (TFP),
has helped raise revenues for vocational training. The amount actually
collected in 1986 (TD 12 million) is roughly equal to total OFPE recurrent
budget (Annex 6). Tax rebates (ristournes) totalling about TD 2.4 million are
given to companies which can demonstrate specific expenditure for training



- il -
their staff. The payroll tax has not proved to be efficient because: (i) it
is not earmarked and Soes directly to the Treasury; (ii) it in perceived >y
employers as just another commercial tas unrelated to training services
received, if any; (iii) procedures for obtaining the tai credits are quite
complicated and in any case many companies do not undertake any training at
ail; (iv) the companies which do get tax rebates are large and could afford to
train their staff even vithout tai credits; and (v) the relevance and quality
of the training funded through tax credits are questionable. There is an
urgent need to revise the legislation to improve incentives for *mall and
medium scale enterprises to undertake training.
Relevance and Oualitv of Training Proarama
2.34     Program designers have not developed programs which are relevant to
industry's needs, partly because they lack job profiles prepared in
collaboration vith employers. They also lack experience in methodology and
technology, and rely on programs developed in foreign countries. The
structure of programs and curricula needs to be updated, and new programs need
to be introduced as new trade specializations arise.
2.35     The quality of training is also hampered by the relatively low
qualifications of instructors. Salaries and benefits for instructors are
based on MEN's general teacher scale rather than on industry and commerce.
The job status and salaries of instructors must be increased to attract and
retain qualified staff. At the same time, instructors should have had
substantial vork experience in industry or should at least be provided with
that experience during their teaching careers.
2.36     Finally, there is not, at present, any appropriate skills guild
certification system. Trainees should not be evaluated on the basis of the
time they have spent ii. a training institution, or on the basis of having
completed certain formal course requirements. Rather, they shoula be judged
by the extent to which they have mastered specific skills. Trainees need
flexible training programs which use modular programs where learning is
self-paced. The mastering of specific skills should be evaluated through a
national certification system to be developed in collaboration with
professional associations in various sectors.
Government Education/Training Strategy and Bank Lending
Government Strategy
2.37     Overall government strategy for the sector is embodied in the Seventh
Economic and Social Development Plan (1987-1991). But many reforms nov
contemplated go beyond the measures proposed in this Plan and were developed
with Bank analytical assistance. The reform strategy is described in detail
in the next Chapter of this report.
Bank LendinR Strateav for the Sector
2.38     B&nk strategy is to support the Government's efforts to adapt the
education/training sector to the economic and social needs of a rapidly
changing society. In the 70s and early 80s the Bank focussed on standard



- 12 -
investment projects in general education and agricultural and industrial
vocational training. Over the past two years, the Bank ha. become more
involved in policy dialogue, and has advised on and supported a broad range of
reforms in the education/training sector, working in close collaboration with
Tunisia policy-makers and educators.
2.39     Present Bank *trategy calls for increases in the effici tcy of
investmenta in human resources through major structural changes ,n the
Government's policy framework and significant improvement in the management of
educational resourcep. It also calls for the business community and
individuals to play , greater role in shaping the education and training
system to their needs. The Bank generally supports the proposed reform
program presented in the next chapter, but it considers also that the higher
education system urgently needs to be rationali23d. This would ensure that
the number of university students is kept in line with available financial
resources and would prevent further deterioration in the quality of
education. The Government has opted for a two-phase approach, deferring to a
second phase measures related to higher education access and financing. This
second phase is now being prepared for extensive political consultations, and
the Bank remains closely involved.
ExDerience vith Past Lendin£
2.40     Bank lending for education in Tunisia (two IDA credits and three IBRD
loans) has supported Government's programs to improve primary and secondary
schooling, teacher training, the employability of school leavers, and formal
and non-formal trade training for skilled workers.  The first project (Credit
29-TUN, US$5.0 million in FY63) financed four new secondary schools, the
expansion of one and an extension of a teachers' college for training lower
secondary teachers. The second project (Credit 94-TUN, US$13.0 million in
FY67) financed nine new secondary schools, expansion of six existing secondary
schools and equipment for 27 secondary schools.
2.41     The third project (Loan 1155-TUN, US$8.9 million in FY76) helped
introduce practical vork (ITM) into grades 5 and 6, and helped introduce an
experimental post-primary grade 7 and 8 program. The project vas amended in
March 1979, and the revised project provided: (i) workshops for 325 primary
achools; (ii) the expansion or equipping of seven Primary Teacher Training
Colleges (ENIs) so that they could train practical teachers for the workshops;
and (Jii) technical assistance for planning studies. The project was
completed in March 1983. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR), issued
in June 1985, stated that the educational objectives had been attained, and
that the dedication and continuity of the personnel in MEN's Project
Implementation Unit had contributed to the success of the ITM Program.
However, the report indicated that the technical assistance element of the
project was less successful, mainly because of the lack of counterparts in the
education planning unit and the reluctance on the part of the Borrower to
recyuit experts.
2.42     The fourth project (Loan 1961-TUN, US$26.0 million in FY81) aimed to
help Tunisia develop formal and non-formal trade training. It was designed to
help the Vocational Training Office add seven vocational training centers and
one apprentice center, expand or equip 17 existing and three existing



- 13 -
apprentice centers, and provide related technical assistance to reinforce
planning and coordination. In 1986, the loun agreement vas amended to:
(i) reduce the loan taount from US$26 million to US$21 million because of
savings generated by the strength of the dollar in the early 1980s; and
(ii) delete the apprentice center component, equip tvo new vorkshops and
purchase mobile training units. Although implementation vas slow, all
componente of the project vere completed in December 31, 1988. A technical
assistance program, to support the start-up of the training component of the
proposed education and training sector loan in also financed under this loan
(para. 4.17). A PPAR t8 being prepared.
2.43     The fifth project (Loan 2230-TUN, US$27,0 million in FY83) assists
the Government implement the Sixth Plan strategies for agricultural education
and training, and for primary schooling. The project helps provide equipment
to six existing Higher Level Agricultural Institutes, four Agricultural
Secondary Schools, 15 Agricultural Training Centers and helps piovide TA and
equlpment tc the National Agricultural Instructor Training Center and the
Bureau of Aaricultural Education Studies and Planning. The project also
includes support for construction and equipment of four new ENIs and of a
study of technician training requirements. In 1988, the loan e3reement was
amended to extend the benefits of the project to a number of institutions not
included in the original design. Implementation of this project is
satisfactory. The projected closing date is December 31, 1989.



- 14 -
. . 1mou PLOG
Objectives
3.01     The Government han embarked on a far reaching reforu progra. to
*ddreas the issues described it Chapter II above. This refora prograu han
been prepared in collaboration vith local, regional snd national
administrations sad extensive consultations vith teachers and parent-teacher
associations have taken place.  This process led to the publication of a
formal report discussed vith and agreed by the Parliament and the
Governmentl/. Th objectives of the reform program are to msake the
provision of education more consistent vith the couatry's mediu tern
developaent needs, more equitable asd more cost-effective. It vould do this
through three major policy changes: (i) allocation of a larger share of
resources to a self-contained basic education cycle of sound quality (grades 1
through 9); (ii) improvement in the quality and relevance of secondary
education (grades 10 through 13) vhile better controlling acceus to it;
(iii) promotion of pre- and in-aervice training in collaboration vith
companies in the public and private sector and mobilization of additional
resources for training.
3.02     The reform program, described in Annex 1, and summarlzed belov,
comprises a number of specific measures designed to meet each of these
objectives. Performance targets, expressed in terme of enrollments, staff and
facilities, are presented in Annex 7. The new structure of the education
system is presented in Chart II.
Policy Actions in 6eneral Education
Introduction of a 9yvear Basic Eduertion Ceyle
3.03     The principle of Basic Education is supported by the highest
government authorities. The above-mentioned Government report proposing the
nev system places it vithir. a broad process of educational reform. Basic
education is to consist of a cycle of formal schooling covering grades 1
through 9, with the aim that it vill become accessible to a larger number of
students and ultimately become compulsory. The Basic Education program calls
for the cancellation, by June 1993, of the secondary achool admission
examination at the end of grade 6 and for a gradual increase in the flov of
students through grade 9. Specifically, the passing rate from grade 6 to
grade 7 (27 percent in 1987) vill be increased starting in 1992-93, reaching
70 percent by June 1995. In parallel, MEN is progressively phasing out
post-primary grades 7 and 8 and tne lover secondary vocational education
cycle, vhich are presently offered to students who do not gain access to
general lower secondary educ:tion (para. 2.10).
Restructurina Secondarv Education
3.04     The education reform program anticipates that nalf of the students
vho have completed 9 years of oasic education vill then enter the labor
market, either directly or after a job speciflc training period. At the end
of grade 9, students vill be selected on the basis of a competitive
l/ Ministère de l'éducation nationale - Rapport sur l'Ecole de Base -
Septembre 1988



- 15 -
examination to be introduced by June 1996. The promotion rate from grade 9 to
grade 10, the firet grade of secondary education, vill be progressively
decreased from its present level of 72 percent to 56 percent by 1994-95, so as
to give approximately the same percentage of the age-group as nov to the upper
secondary cycle and to tne baccalauréat.
3.05     The structure of secondary education vill alo be modified.  The
3-year technical/vocational training progrun lesding to a technician diploma
at the end of grade 12 vill be progrtasively phased out.  MEl has already
identified a number of vorkmhop facilities which vill become redundant under
these reforme and vill be transferred to OFPE for vocational training
activities.  At the saze time, secondary education vill comprise a two-year
core program (corresponding to grades 10 and 11), followed by two years in one
of three major streams: humanities, science and technically-oriented
education. Within each stream, specialized options vill be offered to
students during the last two years of secondary education. Under the new
system, the distinction between general and technical education curricula will
progressively disappear. Technical education will increasingly emphasize
general technical/ technological subjects. There will be less emphasis on the
importance of practicel training in heavily equipped workshops and increasing
training in specialized laboratories. MEl will leave specialized
pre-employment training to more specialized organizations such as OFPE
Teacher Trainini Reform
3.06     Primary school teachers will be recruited at the bac level and
provided with formal pedagogical training. Some 200 bacheliers have been
recruited this year in the various ENIs. They will receive one year of
intensive training followed by a one-year combined Ftudy and primary scliool
internship. Extensive in-service teacher training vill be phased in alongside
the progressive implementation of the Basic Education Reform. This viil allow
teachera to be introduced to the reform and to the changes in curricula,
programa of study, textbooks and instructional materials. In all training,
special emphasis will be given to diagnosing academic weaknesses in students
and providing remedial instruction. This should help reduce the high
repetition and dropout rates.
3.07     The ENS teacher training program for secondary achool teachers will
be revised in cooperation with the University faculties concerned. The
revisions will reflect the evolving needs and changes in secondary education
with particular consideration to the needs of the teaehers of grades 7-9. A
one-year subject-specific pedagogic training of university graduates will be
introduced. Programs will be developed for the pedagogic training of
graduates who have already started teaching without such training, and for
upgrading the level of secondary school teachers who do not have a university
degree.
Reform of Programa and Curricula
3.08     The MEN Directorate of Programs and Continuing Education has set up
sectoral committees to revise curricula and programs of study at all levels of
pre-university education. The philosophy and objectives of Basic Education
will guide the creation of a new, comprehensive curriculum.  In developing the



- 16 -
curriculum, a number of outatanding issues are expected to be settled: when to
start teaching a secund language, the role of physical education and of manual
vork (ITM), and how to alleviate the excessive load at some grade levels.
Work i. still needed to finalize the sciences and technology curricula for
grades 7-9 and to develop vew curricula for the varlous upper secondary
education streama. The implementation of Basic Education is scheduled to
start in September 1989 vith the firet three primary education grades. The
curriculum for these three grades has already been finalized and the
correspondin3 textboooka prepared. The curricula for the remaining grades --
4 through 13 -- and the corresponding textbooks vill follow grade by grade.
Institutional and Administrative Reforme
3.09     MEN has recently decided to change the structure of its regional
administration. The regional units responsible hitherto for primary education
anu secondary education are currently being merged into one siDgle regional
administration (Délégation Régionale à l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire,
Chart V). This new structure is expected to facilitate the implementation of
the reform program and to promote greater efficiency in the utilization of
administrative staff.
3.10     At the central level, MEN is developing an action program to
institutionalize the process of curriculum deveïopment, which is now left to
various committees (para. 2.19). At the same time, MEN is preparing an action
plan to establsh a unit to manage the professional preparation and growth of
teachers, with particular attention to training nLeeds assessment and training
program development (para. 2.20). MEN has also decided that the Directorate
of Examinations will assume a leadership positioe in the academic and
technical aspects of the preparation and correct. n of examinations.
3.11     As for the management of individual s^hoo'_s, MEN is the process of
revising procedures and introducing new norms and standards. These will
promote greater accountability on the part of individual school principals,
provide greater flexibility in the use of resources, and facilitate the flow
of information from one administrative level to the other. In parallel, MEN
will step up its provision of in-service training to school administrators.
Policy Actions in Vocational Training
Institutional and Administrative Reforme
3.12     The Government has decided to create a High Level Vocational Training
Committee to design and coordinate all vocational training policies.
Membership of the Committee will include representatives from the various
ministries and organizations providing training, as well as representatives
from industry, agriculture and services. In 1988, the Government created the
Office of Vocational Training and Labor (OFPE), with mandate to supervise
labor market operations and coordinate training activities in the country.
This shows the determination of the Government to plan training programs in
accordance with labor market signals. An Orientation Law, which is expected
to be passed in 1989, will provide a framework for vocational training
policies, and vill strengthen the role of OFPE as coordinator of the entire
vocational training system (para. 2.26).



- 17 -
3.13     OFPE has mer,ed the separate regional administrations responsible
respectively for employment and vocational training.  Chart VI shows the
typical new structure of a regional employment and training services. The
essential features of this structure are: (i) special units in charge of
developing cooperation with enterprises in the region; (ii) information and
"career counsellng" units to provide assistance to young people seeking
employment or training; and (iii) operational units which integrate employment
placement activities and training placement activities vithin operational
units (Agences de l'Emploi et ue la Formation Professionnelle).
Measures Aiming at Improvina Linkaaes with Productive Sectors
3.14     All the above-mentioned institutional reforms vill help make the
vocational training system more responsive to its users in industry. In
addition, OFPE is trying to strengthen links with industry. Representatives
from productive sectors are to be included in OFPE board of directors.  And
OFPE is negotiating training agreements with various industry associations.
These training agreements will allow employers to be closely associated to the
design of training programs, to the provision of training through detachment
of experienced technicians, to the certification process and to the management
and financing of the sectoral training centers. The last measure concerns the
generalization of Management Committees within training Institutions (Comités
de Parrainage) with appropriate employers representation.
Promoting ADprenticeshi:> Training and Dual Training
3.15     OFPE is in the process of revising the apprenticeship training
regulations. The specifics of the new system to appear in the Orientation Law
are: (i) chenging and broadening the eligible age range from 14 - 18 years old
in the present system to 15 - 20 years old to allow more people to benefit
from the system; (ii) expanding the benefits of the system to the agriculture
sector; (iii) opening vocational training centers to apprentices; and
(iv) giving recognition of training level to apprentices upon completion of
their training period. In addition, financial incentives will be provided to
employers who will recruit new apprentices through the Employment, Promotion
and Skill Acquisition Fund (para. 3.19).
3.16     Finally, OFPE intends to promote dual training activities in
collaboration with industrial establishments. The first operation concerns
the textile sector and an agreement has recently been signed between OFPE and
the National Federation of Textile Industries (FENATEX) to provide training to
employees in the sector. Other agreements are expected to be signed vithin
the next few months with other 'r.dustry associations (para. 4.15).
Reform of Proarams and Certification
3.17     OFPE management has decided to upgrade the existing training programs
and to develop new ones to meet the needs of industry. The recent creation of
the Pedagogical Engineering and Resource Center (CRIP) will strengthen OFPE's
engineering and research capability. CRIP is responsib]e for the
identification, design anicd preparation of training programs. Employers will
be closely involved in all stages of program development and in particular in



- 18 -
ensuring that the programe meet employer's needs. In order to promote
flexibility and efficiency, emphasis vill be placed on self-paced modular
programs, vith each module aime' at the acquisition of professional techniques
necessary for a specific aspect of a trade. It ha. alo been decided to set
up a national system of certification. This will be done sector by sector
with industry representatives sitting on each board. Certification vill
deperni oni the naastery of profesMional techniques, rather than on the type of
courses followed or t;e performance during the training period (para. 2.36).
Chanzing the Status of Instructors
3.18     The statua of vocational training instructors is being reviewed in
order to attract more qualified and experienced professionals. Vocational
training instructors will be given a higher salary grading. Experience in
industry will be emphasized and higher salaries should help attract and retain
qualified instructors from industry. Existing OFPE instructors will undertake
specific in-service pedagogical and practical training programs developed by
the Rades Training Institute. Finally qualifïed technicians from industry who
are relessed to teach in training institutions will receive special incentives
(para. 3-19).
Reform of the Vocational Trainina Tax
3.19     The Government has decideà to modify the existing vocational training
tax system. The amount of the tax applied to manufacturing industries will be
reduced from 2 percent to 1 percent of the total wage bill. This wiyl reduce
general revenues by 4 to 5 million TD from their current level but OFPE will
continue to be funded through general budget transfers as in the past
(para. 2.33). Non-manufacturing industries will continue to pay the 2 percent
rate and half of the overall tax proceeds will be earmarked into a special
fund -- Employment Promotion and Training Fund (Fonds Spécial de Développement
de la Formation en Entreprise et de l'Insertion Professionnelle des Jeunes).
lne other half will remain with the Treasury, as is presently the case with
the whole tax. This fund will be used to promote training undertaken by
industrial companies, as well as to finance specific employment promotion
programs. Up to one third of the amount of the fund will be used to finance:
(i) dual training activities undertaken jointly by industry and OFPE;
(ii) apprenticeship training; (iii) firat year salaries paid to unemployed
graduates recruited by companies through employment promotion programs (Stage
d'Inititation à la Vie Professionnelle for example). The remaining two thirds
would be used to: (i) finance training undertaken by small and medium scale
companies; (ii) finance additional training by companies which already
allocate the equivalent of 1 percent of their total wage bill to training; and
(iii) pay salaries to qualified technicians released from their company to
provide training in OFPE training centers. The tax rebate system would be
abolished.
Proiected ImDact of Prooosed Reform
3.20     In addition to improvements in education quality, the reforms are
expected to result in quantitative changes. Annex 8 provides a summary of the
impact of the reform program. In primary education (the first 6 grades of
basic education), improvements in the efficiency rate, especially in grades 5
and 6, wouild cause a decrease in the overall number of students by 60,000 over



- 19 -
1992-96 (8th Plan) and 109,000 over 1997-2001 (9th Plan). But the number of
atudento enrolled in grades 7, 8 and 9 vould increase by 123,000 over 1992-96
and by 152,000 over the period 1997-2001. The number of dropouts from grade 1
through 9 would be reduced by 104,000 and by 124,000 respectively over the
same periods.  The reform would reduce the number of teachers for grade 1
through 6 by 1,500 during the 8th Plan and by 1,400 during the 9th Plan, and
increase the number of teachers for grade 7 through 9 by 7,000 during the 8th
Plan and 1,400 during the 9th Plan.
3.21     The financial impact of the proposed reform progran has been
simulated using an education finance model developed vith Bank assistance in
1985. as siiown in Annex 8, the proposed reform would require significant
additional investments during the next two Plan periode -- TD 136 million over
1992-1996, and TD 38 million over 1997-2001, as compared to the base case
scenario which projects the present system on the basis of past trends. A
portion of the additional investment costs necessary to finance the education
reform would be offset by a relative decrease in the capacity needed for
grades 1 through 6 due to the improved flow of students in thé system. In the
ten-year span covering the 8th and 9th National Plans (1992-2001), most of the
additional recurrent expenditures involved in implementing the reform program
for the Ministry of Education would result from large-scale hiring of teachers
for the newly expanded, and ultimately universal, grades 7 to 9 (personnel
salaries represent over 90 percent of MEN's recurrent budget), slightly offset
by a decrease in the number of teachers for grades 1 to 6. Estimated total
additional recurrent expenditures generated by the introduction of basic
education would amount to TD 71 million for the period 1991-96 and 143 TD
million for the period 1997-2001, or a 3.2 percent and 5.7 percent increase
over projected recurrent costs if the system remained unchanged (Aznnex 8).
The total MEN recurrent budget would grow at an average annual rate of
3.2 percent (in real terms) during the 8th and 9th Plans, as compared to an
average annual real growth rate of 2.7 percent if the basic education program
was not implemented. Tunisia's GDP is projected to grow at an average of
4 percent for the next several years. The additional recurrent expenditures
ger.erated by the introduction of the proposed reforms would therefore be
absorbed by projected budget revenue growth. The share of total Government
recurrent budget allocated to MEN is projected to remain at its current level
of about 25 percent. Finally, it should be noted that the unit recurrent cost
per grade 9 completer would decrease by 25% by 1996 and by 30% by 2001.



- 20 -
IV. TER PROPOSBD SECTOR IUVSlMiOnT LOau
Rationale and Objectives
4.01     The Bmnk han been discussing the package of education reforma
outlined ln the preceding chapter and in Annz1, with the Goverument since
late 1987.  The reform program which emerged from these discussions, and which
the Governaent is comitted to implement, fully embodies the recomendations
made by the Bank throughout these discussions. The purpose of the proposed
Loan is to support the reforma and assist the Governuent in carrying them
out. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the policy
measures presented in Annex 1 vould be implemented vithin the time frame
specified and that no later than October 31st of each year, progresa achieved
in the reform program, the achool construc:ion program and the MENR proposed
investment and recurrent budgets for the folloving year, including the level
of uon-salary expenditures would be reviewed vith the Bank (para.7.01). Based
on such review, all necessary measures to adjust such reform program,
construction program and proposed investment and recurrent budgets would be
taken.
The Investment Program
4.02     The agreed reform program generates the need for an investment
program. This program, developed by MEN on the basis of school enrollment
projections, provides a detailed assessment of additional infrastructure and
equipment required for each level of the education system. This investment
program, presented in a formal report (para. 3.01) has been approved by the
highest Government authorities. The Bank reviewed the proposed program and
agrees with its main parameters and the design, costing and phasing of all its
major elements. Taking into account the MEN implementation capacity, the
investment program for basic education (grades 1-9) is estimated to cost
TD 138 million (US$160 million) for the five years covered by the proposed
loan (1990-1994).
4.03     The proposed Bank financing -- US$80 million for the Ministry of
Education would cover approximately 100% of the foreign exchange coats of this
investment program. This would cover the following investments:
(i) Rehabilitation of some 1,600 primary and 330 secondary schools;
(ii) Construction and equipment of 800 achool canteens; (iii) Construction and
equipment of some 130 new upper basic education achools (grades 7, 8 and 9);
(iv) Distribution of educational materials on the basis of pedagogical
improvement plans; (v) Expert services and fellowships to improve the quality
of programs and the efficiency of educational management; and
(vi) Establishment of a major in-service teacher training effort within MEN.
With regard to OFPE, the agreed reform program will be supported by a
financing in the amount of US$15 million for the provision of civil works,
equipment and technical assistance for the development of sector dedicated
vocational training centers in collaboration with industry associations and
based on a sub-project approach.
Part A: Ministry of Education
4.04     Rehabilitation of Existina Primarv and Secondarv Schools.  The
proposed loan would finance the rehabilitation of some 1,600 primary schools
r- 1



- 21 -
and soue 330 secondary achools which require urgent attention (para. 2.11).
For primary echools, the rehabilitation program consiste of minor work
necesaary to make them function properly. This includes repair of walls,
windows and ceilings, waterpro3fing, plastering and painting and
rehabilitation of sanitary blocks .here necessary. This program is based on a
survey of all primary achools, completed in 1987 by MEN's regional
administrations, vith assistance from the Ministry of Equipsent.
4.05     For s¢condary echools, the program includes: general rehabilitation
of 330 achools, repair of electrical systems in 219 schools, repair of vater
supply and distribution in 235 achools, repair of sanItary blocks in 279
*chools and repair of cafeterias in 112 achools. A detailed assessnment of
this program has been completed by the regional delegations of the Ministry of
Equipment, ia collaboration with school directors, and vith help from
specialized agencies.
4.06     Construction of School Canteens.  The proposed project vould finance
the construction and equipment of 800 canteens in existing achools vhich, at
present, can only provide cold meals (para. 2.11). Better meals would
increase school attendance in rural and peri-urban areas and improve
educational standards. The design of these canteens vas developed by MEN's
Division of Construction and Equipment to fit within the dimensions of a
typical classroom. Standard canteen equipment such as stove, tables, chairs,
pots and pans would also be provided.
4.07     Construction of New Schools <grades 7. 8 and 9).  The proposed sector
loan vould finance the construction of approximately 130 upper basic education
achools, corresr,nding to the third cycle of basic education (grades 7, 8 and
9). As part of the proposed reform program, the total number of students in
grades 7, 8 and 9 vill double by 1995-97 and the Government intends to build
314 nev upper basic education achools of an average size of 700 students each
during the 7th and the 8th Plans. During the five-year period covered by the
proposed loan, September 1989 to September 1994, the MEN investment program
includes the construction of 156 new schools. On the basis of actual
construction experience in 1988, it is estimated that 130 schools could be
built over the 5-year period, or approximately 26 per year. The proposed loan
vould give priority to the creation of schools vithout boarding facilities in
small towns located in the regions where enrollment ratios are belov the
national average. The design of the proposed schools revieved during
appraisal, has been developed by independent architecte in col_aboration vith
MEN architects. It includes 12 standard classrooms, 4 specialized rooms, one
socio-culturel block, one administrative block and housing for the directors.
4.08     Complementarv equipment programe.  The ;roposed loan vould also
finance the procurement of some complementary equipment and spare parts to
help develop a Maintenance Center for servicing MEN training equipment. This
center is being developed vith assistance from the Belgian bilateral aid
program. As a first step, the Center vill be responsible for the repair of
all the existing training equipment. It vill also play a major role in
organizing a maintenance system for the entire MEN technical school system, as
well as in training maintenance agents.



- 22 -
4.09     The proposed loan vould also finance the acquisition of mome 250
micro-computers. They vould be used in 15 pilot sections in existing
secondary lycées which teach computer science, and two training centers where
computer instructors are being trained. Lycées are also used as training
centers to provide short intensive courses for computer science teachers.
This is part of a plan to develop computer science in grade 13. Starting with
academic year 1989-90, computer science will be offered at the baccalauréat as
a new option. The computer equipuent financed under the proposed loan would
coL ement the equipment already provided vith assistance from the Italian
bilu.eral aid program.
4.10     The proposed loan vould also finance the acquisition of 46 vehicles.
These will be used by the 23 MEN regional administrations to strengthen
pedagogical inspection and control. School inspectors have not been able to
perform their duties adequately, because of lack of transportation. Also, the
introduction of a new basic education reform together with the changes in
teacher training programs will require increased supervision on the part of
pedagogical inspectors.
4.11     Distribution of Books and Education Materials.  The availability of
reading books and educational materials is a key ingredient in the quality of
education (para. 2.19). The proposed loan would finance about US$4.0 million
worth of books and educational materials, made available to the schools on the
basis of pedagogical improvement plans submitted by individual school
principals to the Ministry of Education for approval. These plans would
specify the objectives to be reached in terme of learning achievements, .he
target group and the activities to be carried out. During negotiations, the
Governnent provided assurances that MEN would distribute books and educational
materials on the basis of pedagogical improvement plans prepared in accordance
with criteria specified in Annex 9 (para. 7.01).
4.12     Iistitutional DeveloDment. The proposed loan would finance 104 months
of expert services and 160 months of fellowships. These would be used to
develop key MEN programs and services so as to improve the quality of
education and strengthen the management of the education system. Technical
assistance would cover the eight areas described below (see also Schedule I)
and detailed terms of reference have been prepared:
(i)    Curriculum Design and Develooment: experts will help the Directorate
of Programs develop a curriculum unit. This unit will integrate the various
sections concerned and vill assume the publishing functions of editing,
design, illustration, and production management and control. The experts will
help streamline curriculum development and prepare guidelines for project
design. Area specialists will advise on curriculum development aspects and
guide relevant sub-units. One of the main functions of experts will be to
train relevant MEN staff, and fellowships will be provided to a few selected
staff. Finally, study tours will be organized for key higher-level MEN staff.
(ii)    Textbook Development and Publishing: experts will help set up a
publishing/editing unit within the Directorate of Programs. This unit will be
responsible for controlling quality, evaluating drafts and manuscripts,
working with authors throughout the preparation of their manuscripts,
controlling design and illustration, and managing the whole process of
publication from the initial planning to authorization to the National



- 23 -
Pedagogic Center to print. Fellowvhips vill be available for selected staff
in this unit and study tours vill be organized as appropriate. In addition,
an expert on educational materials evaluation vill give a seminar on the
development and une of grids for evaluating manuscripts.
(iii)    Teacher Trainina: experts vill assist the establishment vithin MEN of
a department, responsible for all teacher training and for improving the
*ffectivenesu of the teacher training syster. A training needs assessment
exercise vill be completed to develop specific plana and programs for
in-service training of teachers in parallel vith the progressive revision of
curricula and textbooks. Experts vill also contribute to the implementation
of new policies/practices in pre-service teacher training programa.
(iv)     Measurement and Evaluation: experts will assist the MEN's Directorate
of Examinations strengthen its leadership in the preparation and
administration of national examinations. The experts vill also assist in the
development of a bank of test questions for selected grades. These banks vill
also enable the Directorate of Examinations to develop standardized tests
reliable enough to provide comparable data to be used for comparative
evaluation. Efforts vill be made to improve the evaluation and examination of
pre-service and in-service teacher training programs, and to increase the
country's participation in studies and research. Fellovships vill be
available for MEN staff to pursue a formal program of study in the field of
measurement and evaluation.
(v)      Educational Management: experts will help MEN develop, in
collaboration with universities, training programs for educational
administrators, such as inspectors and principals. Experts would organize and
conduct seminars on selected topics in educational management. Study tours
would be organized for MEN higher-level staff to visit foreign ministries of
education or educational centers.
(vi)     Maintenance of Buildings: experts vill help the Division of
Construction and Equipment design a system of preventive maintenance for ail
MEN schools, and identify financial, material and human resources necesssay to
implement the program. This assistance vould include organizing seminars for
central and regional MEN staff. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that no later than December 31, 1990, the MEN would prepare a
preventive maintenance plan for all schools, and thereafter would maintain
adequately all schools (para. 7.01).
(vii)    Studies:  the reform program will be evaluated in the final year of
implementation. This evaluation will cover quantitative and qualitative
aspects as well as organization and finance, The study will cover both basic
education and secondary education, and vill propose measures to correct any
shortcomings (para. 5.13). A provision for undertaking studies on specific
topics is also included in the proposed loan. Topics could include, for
instance, the development of remedial instruction, or the advantages of
producing educational materials within the country. The actual terms of
reference for these studies will be developed later.
4.13     In-Service Trainini for Teachers: an extensive program of in-service
training for teachers has been developed by MEN. This program aims at



- 24 -
improving teaching standards and at familiarizing teachers with new programs
and new pedagogy. The program covers the four years of the transition and
will provide short-term training (12 half-days) to 80,000 teachers, ald longer
training periods over the summer vacation period to 10,000 teachers. While
the Government will pay for the program's salary costs, the proposed loan
would cover equipment and material costs.
Part B: Office of Vocational Trainint and EUlo3ment
4.14     Develooment of Sectoral Trainini Centers.  The proposed project would
finance the conversion of existing vocational training institutions into
sector dedicated training centers catering to the needs of specific industries
and services. This will enable OFPE to respond rapidly and flexibly to
changing labor market demand and integrate the end usera in program design.
The conversions would be implemented on the basis of sub-projects prepared and
appraised by OFPE and Industry Associations and presented to the Bank for
approval. A typical sub-project would be the development of a sector-
dedicated training center, including minor refurbishing, and provision of
training equipment and technical assistance.
4.15     The Pedagogical Engineering and Resource Center (CRIP), created
recently as part of the reorganization of OFPE, would prepare, review and
appraise sub-projects requests in accordance with agreed criteria (Annex 2).
The most important criterium is the existence of a training agreement between
OFPE and industrial associations. This agreement would delineate respective
roles of government and industry in defining training programs, certifying
procedures, and managing and financing training centers. The criteria also
emphasize a new pedagogic oiganization. The centers are expected to provide
various types of training: pre-service training for young people who are
expected to take specific jobs upon graduation, apprenticeship trainir.g or
dual training for people already in the work force. Flexible training
programs on a modular basis would be provided, allowing individuals to upgrade
their skills progressively. In addition, these centers are expected to be
used as resource centers for the development of training programs and training
of instructors for other centers. Finally, the criteria emphasize the need
for an adequate level of technical expertise and specific sources of technical
know-how required to start up training activities in the centers.
4.16     During appraisal, OFPE and the Bank jointly -eviewed two sub-projects
covering the leather and shoes ir.dustries and agro-industries. These two
sub-projects have been prepared by CRIP in close collaboration with the
relevant Industry Associations, and will involve conversion into sector
specific training centers of existing underutilized institutions in Tunis
(leather and shoes) and in Soliman (agro-industry). The capacity of these two
centers is 150 and 250 respectively. Total estimated cost for these two
sub-projects is about US$2 million, or over 15 percent of the total amount of
this component.
4.17     OFPE's sound performance in preparing the first two sub-projects to
be financed under the proposed loan demonstrated its capacity to prepare
further sub-projects for the remainder of the period. It is anticipated that
the proposed loan would finance approximately 12 sub-projects. It is expected
that the sector-dedicated training centers would have a demonstration effect



- 25 -
on the rent of the syt, maind vould be usd as resource centere for
developing progrms, as vell as for trainiung inatructors. Durins
negotiations, the Covernasat provided assurances that om  vould prepare
sub-projects ln accordance vith criteria specifled ln naaLM          and provide the
Bank vith detailed appraisal reporte for approval of each individual
sub-project (para. 7.01).
4.18     UNDP ban designed à techalcal aistance prograr    Y  to assiat Om
iplememt its new organltational structure, *nd etremthen its human
resources. The progrm lo co-fînaneed by the Bmnk under the Fourth Education
Project and executed by ILO. It includes 40 oaths of expert services, 15
ontha of foreiga fellowhlps and the provision of related equipent.  It
foeuses on three areas: (i) stren&theaing OmFPe administration at the central
and regional level; (il) developing the training institute ln charge of the
profeusional development of OFPE administrative and teaching staff;
(iii) creating the netvork of vocational training engineering.  The progra,
vould be completed by the end of 1989 when the proposed loan becomes
effective. In addition, 90 montha of technical assistance vould be available
under the proposed project to assist in the developuent of sector dedicated
training centers.
1/ Strengthening the operational capacity of OFPE.
Project TUJ/88/010/B/Ol/11 approved on December 28, 1988.



- 26 -
V. PIO3CT COSTS a VIAC iDC, IoPLnIENTATI0 AU» DISBUESITzS=
Prolect Conte
5.01             Su'ary of Prolect Conte  Project costs are estimated at
157.4 million Tunisian Dinars (TD) (US$183 million). The conte by project
components are ehown in Table 5.1.
Table 5.1:  SarY of Prolect Conte b' Como»nent
TUN I . A
EDUCATION 8 TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
PROJECT COST SUMMART
ITUNISIAN DINARS
MNllionl                IUS$ Million)                       1 Total
--------------- ---   -------------------  2 Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchang.               Costs
A. SChOOL REHABILIIAtION  PROGRAM  IMOEI                            1O 4       10 4  20 7    12 0        12 0  24  I             50          16
O  CANTEENS FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS  IMOEI                               4 0        4 4    8 4      4 7       5 1   9 8              52           6
C. SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION  ILEVELS 7.8 AND 91  IhOEI                   35 2      37 S   72 8    40 9        43 7  84 6              52         56
D. COMPLEMENTARY PROGRAM FOR EQUIPMENT  (MOE)                        OS         1 2    1 8      0 6        1 5    2 1            70           1
E  DISTRIBUIION OF BOOMS AND MATERIALS  IMOEI                           -       3 5    3 5                4 0    4 O            100           3
F  INSTITUIIONAL DEVELOPMENT  /MOEI                                  O O        T 5    I S      O O       1 7    1 7             98           1
G   IN-SERVICE  IRAlINNG  iMOEI                                      55         1 1   6 6       6 4        1 2    7 7            16           5
I  DEVElOPMENT  OF SECTORAt TRAINING CENTERS  (OFPEI                 5 1       10 2   15 3      5 9      il 8   17 8             67          12
Total BASELINE  COSIS                                                  60 8      69 7 130 4    70 7        810 151 7               53         100
Physçcal Contingencies                                              6 1       7 0   13 0       7 1       8 1  15 2              53         10
Price  Contirngencies                                               8 8       Si  1 3 9    10 3          5 9   16 2             37         "l
Total PROJECI COSTS                                                    75 7      81 7 157 4    88 0        95 O 183 0              52         121
9              .  .  .  .   .   .  .  .     .   .   .   -    -    -     -    -    -    -  . -    -    -    -    -     -    -
Na,ch 24. 198s9 IS IS



- 27 -
5.02          Conte by category of expenditures are given belov:
Table 5.2: Proleet Cote b  Cl tepri of  Deture
IUN1SIA
EDUCATION 8 TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
SUMNARY ACCOUNTS COST SUMARY
ITUNISIAN DINARS
Millionl              IUS$ million)                    1 Total
-------------------  -------------------  Z Foreign   Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Excharn4           Costs
1. INVESIMENT COSiS
A. CIVIL WORKS                               48.2     48.2  96.4   56.0    56.0 112.0               50         74
B. EQUIPhENT                                  5.9     13.8  19.7      6.9      16.0  22.9           70         15
C. FURNITURE                                  1.6      2.0   3.6       1.9      2.3   4.2           55          3
O. BOOKS AND EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS              -      3.5   3.5         -      4.0   4.0           100         3
E. EXPERTS SERVICES                             -      1.9   1.9         -     2.2   2.2            100         1
F. FELLODSHIPS                                  -      0.4   0.4         -     0.5   0.5           100          0
G. IN-SERVICE TRAINING                        5.1         -   5.1     5.9         -   5.9                       4
Total BASELINE COSTS                             60.8      69.7 130.4   70.7       81.0 151 7            53       100
Physical Contingencies                         6.1      7.0  13.0      7.1       8.1   15.2          53         10
Price Contingencies                            8.8      5.1  13.9   10.3         5.9  16.2           37         il
Total PROJECT COSTS                              75.7    81.7 157,4   88.0    95.0 183.0                 52       121
Harch 24. 1989  15:15



- 28 -
5.03     Basin of Coet Eutimates.  The conts of construction and refurbiuhin8
are based on recently awarded contracts for similar work. Technical
assistance coste have been estimated on the basis of recent prices for
comparable technical assistance in the region. Local training costs have been
estimated on the basis of actual In-service training costs in Tunisia. Base
cost estimates reflect prices projected for March 1989 when negotiations are
scheduled.
5.04     Cuatons Duties     Taxes. All project costs are net of taxes.
Equipment and 8oode imported directly for use by Government ministries are
exempt from duties.
5.05     Continaency Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allovance for unforeseen physical additions of US$15.2 million, equal to
10 percent of the project base cost. Price contingencies between negotiations
(March 1989) and the completion of project implementation are estimated at
US$16.2 million equivalent, or 11 percent of project cost.  Total
contingencies represent 21 percent of the base cost.  Annual rates of price
increases have been applied to foreign costs at the following rates:
6.3 percent in 1989, 1.5 percent in 1990, 1.3 percent in 1991, 2.3 percent in
1992, 3.4 percent in 1993, and 5.4 percent in 1994. Annual rates of price
increases have been applied to local costs at the following rates: 5.8 percent
in 1989, 5.9 percent in 1990, 6.5 percent in 1991, 6.0 percent in 1992,
5.7 percent in 1993 and 5.5 percent in 1994.
5.06     Foreizn Exchange Comnones.. The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) civil vorks - 50 percent; (b) equipment -
70 percent; (c) furniture - 55 percent, (d) educational materials -
70 percent; (e) books - 100 percent; (f) experts services - 100 percent;
(g) fellowships - 100 percent; and (h) in-service training - 0 percent.
These percentages have been determined by: (a) calculating the indirect
foreign exchange content of minor works; (b) assuming that the majority of
equipment and all books would be imported; and (c) assuming that all project
specialists would be foreign. The resulting foreign exchange component,
contingencies included, is estimated at US$95.0 million, or about 52 percent
of total costs.
Proiect FinancinE
5.07     The proposed Bank loan of US$95.0 million would finance the
equivalent cf 100 percent of foreign exchange. The Government would finance
the balance of project costs. A breakdown of project financing is shown in
Table 5.3.



- 29 -
Table 5.3:       CID&mnLP11
Categories of expenditure      -----US$ Million--------           Estim. Bank
Gov't      Bank        Total      Financing (X)
Civil Works                    63.9       60.1     124.0                48
Equipment                       8.0       17.2      25.2                68
Furniture                       2.2        2.5       4.7                53
Books and
Educational Materials         0.0        4.3       4.3               100
Experts Services                0.0        2.3       2.3               100
Fellovehips                     0.0        0.5       0.5               100
Teacher Training                6.8        0.0       6.8                 0
Unallocated                    7.1         8.1      15-2                53
Total                      88.0       95.U     183.0                52
5.08     Retroactive financing of eligible costs incurred after January 1,
1989 up to a maximum of US$4.0 million (4% of the loan amount) is
recommended. This will reimburse the Bank's share of advance payments to
contractors for the 1989 construction program of upper basic education schools
and expert services.
Ha t ement and Implementation
5.09     Management Structure.  The proposed project has been designed to
build on well established mechanisms and structures. Departments within MEN
and OFPE would be responsible for the implementation of specific components.
An advisor in the Minister's Private Office within MEN has been nominated as
project coordinator. Similarly a project coordinator who reports directly to
the president of OFPE has been nominated for the vocational training component.
5.10     Imelementation of the ProAect.  The Project Coordinators will
overview the vork of the implementing departments, monitor progress, and
liaise with the Bank. Project Coordinators would be assisted by an accountant
And an administrative officer as appropriate. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the Project Coordinators would be
maintained as indicated above (para. 7.01).
5.11     Under the pzoposed project, the Ministry of Equipment's regional
offices, in close collaboration with MEN's regional offices would supervise
the execution cf all civil works for MEN. The General Directorate of
Financial Affairs, Buildings and Equipment in MEN's central administration,
staffed by 26 professior.Als, would be responsible for the overall coordination
and monitoring of the rehabilitation and new construction program. The
technical assistance program would be implemented by the relevant MEN
directorates, and in particular, the General Directorate of Programs and
Continuing Training, which is etaffed by 11 professionals. The Directorate
would also be responsible for the organization and implementation of the
in-service teachers' training program.



- 30 -
5.12     The CkIP (Pedagogical Engineering and Resource Center) (see
para. 4.15), ataffed by 50 professionals, would be responsible for identifying
and designing sub-projects. The Directorate of Equipment and Civil Works
vould be responsible tor minor work involved in the development of sector
dedicated training centers. The Directorate of Institutional Training would
be responsible for setting up and implementing training programs in these
centers.
5.13     fonitokIn* and Evaluation.  Lvery yaar, the Government and the Bank
vould reviev the progresa achieved in the reform progra,, the achool
construction program and the proposed MEN investment and recurrent progra, for
the following year including the level of non-salary expenditures. Indicators
of performance specified In Arnex 7 would also be reviewed. In addition, an
evaluation of the reform program would be completed no later thau. December 31,
1993. This study would cover the quanttitative and qualitative impact of the
reform as well as its organiza'ion and finances (para. 4.12) and would be
furnished to the Bank for review and commenta. Based on such reviev, all
neeessary measures to finalize such recommendations would be taken. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed these arrangements (para. 7.01).
Naintenancz
5.14     Maintenance of all physical facilities is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Equipment, in coordination with MEN regional units. An expert
would be hired to analyze MEN needs in the area of educational building
maintenance (para. 4.17).
Procurement
5.15     Contracts for equipment and educat'onal material would as far as
possible be grouped to form bidding packages attractive to suppliers.
Invitations to bid will typically be grouped into approximately 15 packages,
which could be supplied by one company. Items suitable for International
Competitive Biddinb (ICB), estimated at US$27.5 million, will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" (May 1985) and will be based on the "Sample Bidding Documents -
Procurement of Goods" (March 1986). ICB will account for about 95 percent of
the totel value of the project's equipment and vehicles and 100 percent of
educational materials.   Detailed procurement arrangements are shown in
T&Ple 5.4.



- 31 -
Table S.4: PrIo ud                   ai
US$ Million -
Category of Expenditures                 Procurement Method             Total Coat
ICa        LCB      Osher-    X/
Civil vorks                               135.0                           13S.0
(65.6)                          (65.6)
Equipuent and vehicles         25.5                   2.0                  27.5
(16.8)                 (2.0)                (18.8)
Purniture                                   5.1                             5.1
(2.7)                           (2.7)
Books and
Educational Materials        2.0                   2.8                   4.8
(2.0)                 (2.8)                 (4.8)
Expert Services                                                  2.5        2.5
(2.5)      (2.5)
Pellovahipu                                                      0.6        0.6
(0.6)      (0.6)
Teacher Training                                                 7.5        7.5
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                     27.5      140.1        4.8       10.6      183.0
Bank financing           (l8.8)     (68.3)      (4.8)      (3.1)     (95.0)
a/ rigures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Procurement vould be as follovw:
(a) Equipment, vehicles and educational materials, estimated at
US$27.5 million equivalent, vould be procured through ICB. Domestlc
manufacturers would be alloved a preferential margin of 15 percent, or
the existing customs duty, vhichever is lover, over the c.i.f. prices
of competing imports. Under ICB procedures, all bidding packages for
goods over US$350,000 equivalent (about 80 percent of the total
estimated value of goodp contracte) vould be subject to the Bank's
prior reviev of procurement documentation. The balance of contracts
vould be subject to random reviev by the Bank after contract avard.
(b) Civil vorks contracts, estimated at US$135.0 million equivalent, vould
be relatively small and widely scattered and as such vould not be
suitable for ICB. On previous occasions, foreign contrac.ors had not
expressed interest in such contracts. Moreover, Tunisian contractors
can effectively execute these works. These contracte vould be
advertised and awarded by Regional Delegations under lo«al competitive
bidding procedures, which are generally consistent vith the need for
economy and efficiency in the execution of the works. Regional



- 32-
Delegations used these procedures for the 1988 construction program.
A sample bidding document, which vould be used for all civil vorks
contracta, has been reviewed and deemed acceptable to the Bank.  No
contract is expected to exceed US$1.0 million equivalent. Prior
review of procurement documentation will not be necessary. Standard
documentation submission procedures will, however, be folloved. A
Regional procurement review has confirmed that Tunisia's local
competitive procurement bidding rules and procedures are acceptable,
provided no preferen-e is granted for purposes of bid comparis.jon to
any group of bidders, ail bidders are treated equally especially in
terme of the requirements of furnishing bid and performance
securities, bide are opened in public and foreign firms wishing to
participate are allowed to do so in accordance with local procedures.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that these
provisos would be respected (para. 7.01).
(c) Furniture, estimated to cost US$5.1 million equivalent, would be
purchased through competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures (LCB);
(d) Reading books, estimated to cost US$2.8 million equivalent, would be
acquired through direct contracts with publishers; and
(e) Sundry items not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent in each contract and
which, in the aggregate, would not exceed US$2.0 million equivalent,
could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three quotations in
accordance with procedures outlined in pare 3.4 of the Bank
Procurement Guidelines.
Tecbnical Assistance
5.16    Consultants would be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures acceptable to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive
Agency" (August 1981). To simplify management, MEN and OFPE would obtain
comprehensive TA contracta for most expert services and fellowships. At least
three training institutions, selected from a shortlist acceptable to the Bark,
would be invited to submit proposals.
Status of Preparation
5.17    The average diabursement period for projects in Tunisia -- including
education projecta -- is seven years from date of effectiveness. The proposed
project would be disbursed in about five years in accordance with
Implementation Schedule II. This rapid implementation reflects the fact that:
(a) the design of standard achoola (for grades 7, 8 and 9) has already been
completed and sites have been acquired for the new achools to be buJlt; and
(b) the TA package has been fully defined and draft terme of reference have
already been prepared. Project Completion would be September 30, 1994, and
the Closing Date would be March 31, 1995 (Schedule II).



- 33 -
Diaburu_mmet
5.18    The proposed loan vould diaburse over about 5 years (Schedule III).
Disbursement vould be made against:
(a) 65 percent of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported and
80 percent of local expenditures for locally purchased equipuent,
vehicles, furniture, books and educational materials; and
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for experts services and fellovships.
5.19    Disbursements for the above items would be made upon receipt by the
Bank of fully documented applications, except for expenditures under contracta
valued at lesa than US$350,000 equivalent, vhich would be made against
certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOE
vould be retained until one year after loan closing by the implementing
agencies and made available for review by the Bank during supervision.  Direct
paymen- applications and application for special commitments would be accepted
for minimum amounts of US$100,00O equivalent.
snecial Account
5.20    To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government would
establish, maintain and operate under terma and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, a Special Account in US$ at the Central Bank of Tunisia to which the
World Bank would make an initial deposit of US$4 million, equivalent to a
four-month average Bank disbursement. The Special Account would be
replenished on a monthly basis for a minimum amount of US$0.6 million or when
at least one third of the initial deposit has been withdrawn from the Special
Account, whichever comes first. Documentation for replenishment requests
would follow the same procedure as in paragraph 5.19. In addition, monthly
bank statements of the Special Account would accompany replenishment requests.
Accouats and Audits
5.21    MEN and OFPE, in accordance vith acceptable accounting practices,
would maintain separate accounts for the project, and would prepare, every
semester, a detailed statement reflecting project expenditures during the
period and projected expenditures for the forthcoming semester. Within 45
days after the end of each semester, MEN and OFPE would submit copies of these
statements to the Bank to facilitate supervision. Project accounts, including
the Special Account (para. 5.20) vould be audited in accordance with the March
1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank".  The Bank would be provided, vithin nine months
of the end of each fiscal year, vith an audit report of such scope and detail
as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the
auditor on disbursements against a certified statement of expenses. During
negotiations, the uovernment provided assurances to this effect (para. 7.01).



- 34 -
VI. BhEFNITS AU» RISKS
6.01    Benefits.  The eucation reform program supported by the proposed loan
is expected to yield very significant development benefits for the country.
The reform program vould restructure education and training ln Tunisia so that
a much larger 'iumber of children would benefit from sound education and
training helping prepare them for active careers in a faat-changing economy.
It would reorient the system ln favor of basic education and vould improve the
quality and efficiency of educational inputs. At the same time, collaborative
training with industry associations would be promoted. This would make
training programs more job-related and would make young people more
employable.  Quantitative benefits include an increase ln the number of
students enrolled in upper basic education of 123,000 over the 1992-96 Plan
and 152,000 over the 1997-2001 Plan and a decrease in the number of drop outs,
in grade 1 through 9 of 104,000 and 124,000 respectively. A portion of the
additional costs necessary to finance ne expansion at the level of grades 7,
8 and 9 would be offset by a decrease in the number of atudents in primary
education due to improved efficiency rates and by a reduction in the cost of
training new teachers. The total MEN recurrent budget would grow at an
average yearly rate of 3.2 percent in real terme and its share of total
Government budget would remain at its current level of about 25X.
6.02    Risks.  The reform program also entails some riaks.  The firat risk is
that some teachers may resist the introduction of new educational methoda and
in particular the utilization of diagnostic testing and remedial instruction.
The improvements in pre- and in-service training for teachers f'hould go a long
way to ensure acceptance of these new methods. The second risl; is that fiscal
pressures on the government budget may reduce the scupe for sustaining the
steady increase in investmetit allocations the sector program calls for and
which Parllament has already expressly approved. This could slow down the
implementation of the reforma, although the proposed loan financing safeguards
the most critical software expenditures aimed at building quality
improvements. Finally, the Government may face opposition to any plans to
limit access to the upper levels of the education and training system.
However, the Tunisian public is increasingly aware of the trade-offs in this
area and Government is adamant that the reform program will progreas steadily
on track, as has lndeed been the case with all past reform commitments made by
Tunisia vithin the adjustment process.



- 35 -
7.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) The policy measures presented in matrix form in Azmez 1 vould be
implemented vithin the time frame specified and that no later than
October 31st of each year, progreas achieved in the refora progran,
the achool construction progra and the proposed investaent and
recurrent budgets for the folloving year, including the level of
non-salary expenditures vould be revieved vith the Bank. Based on
sucb reviev, all necessary measures to adjust *uch refors progra.,
construction prograu  and proposed investuent and reccurent budgets
vould be taken (para. 4.01).
(b) MEN vould distribute books and educational materials on the basis of
pedagogical improvement plans prepared in accordance vith criteria
specified in Annex 9 (para 4.11).
(c) OFPE would prepare sub-projects in accordance vith the criteria
specified in Annex 2 and provide the Bank vith detailed appraisal
reports for approval of each individual sub-project (para. 4.17).
(d) No later than December 31, 1990 MEN would prepare a preventive
maintenance plan for all achools, and thereafter would maintain
adequately all achools (para. 4.18>.
(e) The Proieat Coordinators (for MEN and OFPE) vould be maintained for
the duration of the project (para. 5.10).
(f) No later than December 31, 1993 an evaluation study vould be completed
to assess the quantitative and the qualitative impact of the proposed
reform program as vell as its organization and finances and vould be
furnished to the Bank for review and comments. Based on such review,
al necessary measi;res to finalize such recommendations would be taken
(para. 5.13).
(g) The provisos concerning Local Competitive Bidding would be respected
(pr--. 3.15).
(h) Project accounts, including the Special Account, vould be audited
annually by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and audit reports vould
then be submitted to the Bank vithin nine months of the end of each
fiscal year. The audit vould be of such scope and details as the Bank
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against certified statements of expenses (para. 5.21).
7.02    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed sector program provides
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$95.0 million to the Republic of Tunisia.



- 36 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA                     zL.I
Page 1 of 5
EDUCATION AiD TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
6         0VER ! REFORN Pl
POLICY MATRIX
OBJECTIVES                     MNASURES                           STATUS
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
1. Restructure Education   Phase out existing Specialized        Completed
System                   Grades 7 and 8 for children vho do September 88.
not have access to lover
secondary education.
Phase out existing Lover Second.   Started Sept. 88.
Vocational Education Cycle           To be completed
(Grades 7, 8 and 9).                by June 91.
Introduce a 9-year basic             Scheduled to
education cycle (Grades 1            start Sept 89 for
through 9)                           grades 1, 2 and 3
Full cycle to be
set up by Sept 95.
Drogressively reduce enrollments   Orientation
in technician stream (gr. 10-12)   toward one single
and increase enrollments in          type of tech.
technical education (grades 10-13) educ. (grades 10-
13) by June 93.
Introduce a core program             Core program
for grades 10 & 11, followed         to start Sept.93
by three streams vith options        Whole cycle to
for grades 12 and 13.                be in place by
Sept. 96.
Gradually integrate technical        Pilot Project for
sciences and humanities streamas      everal lycées
vithin secondary achools.            under preparation
2. Improve Access to        Progressively increase promotion   Promotion rate to
Basic Education          rate from grade 6 to grade 7         increase from 45%
and Restrict Access                                           to 70X by June 95
to Secondary Education
Phase out entrance examination       Elimination of
at 7th grade level.                  examination by
June 93.
Introduce examination for            Entrance exam. to
entrance into secondary              be introduced in
education (grade 10).                June 96.



- 37 -
EPULIC 0r TUISI-
EDUCiTICO  AUD TRAINING SECTOR LOAII    Page 2 of S
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
OBJECTIVES UIASURES                                              STATUS
Progressively reduce the rate of   Promotion rate
promotion fros basic education       to decrease fron
<grade 9) to upper secondary         70% to 502 by
(grade 10).                         June 97 in order
to *aintain
constant enroll-
mente grovth in
secondary
achools.
3. Improve Quality of       Progressively phase out 5-year       Firet
Education                primary teacher training which       baccalauréat
Itarts at grade 10 and replace it  holders
vith tvo-year pedagogical            recruited in
training for baccalauréat           June 88.
holders.                             Recruitement at
grade 10 to be
stopped by
June 89.
Introduce a teacher training        To start on an
program offered to licenciera        experim. cal
(Bac + 4).                          basis In Sept 90
Develop in-service teacher           In-service
training programa.                   training programs
for basJc edue.
to start Sept 89.
In-service
training programs
for upper second.
teachers to start
Sept. 90.
Develop new programs for grades    1ev programs for
1 through 9 in accordance vith      grades 1, 2, 3
the nev basic education concept    to start Sept.89
and update secondary education       folloved by one
programs.                            additional grade
per year.
Introduction, at
the experimental
level, of scien-
tific and
technological
education started
Sept. 88.
Generalization
Sept. 93.
Update secondary
curricula
September 89.
Increase availability of reading   Distribution
books and educational materials    program scheduled
in achools.                          to start Sept 90.



- 38 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA               Ame  1
EDUCATION AUN  TRAINING SECTOR LOAN      Page 3 of 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OBJECTIVES                      MEASURES                          STATUS
Develop a teutinj and evaluation   Program to *tart
systea.                              Sept. 91.
Introduce remedial education         Introduction of
methoda.                             remedial courses
atarting vith
grade 2 in
Sept. 89.
4. Improve Efficiency       Institutionalize curriculum           Implementation
of Educational           development and textbook             scheduled
Administration           preparation processes.                for 1990.
Group all responsibilities for       Implementation
teacher training vithin one unit.  scheduled for
1990.
Unify regional adrinistration        Completed
of primary and secondary             Sept. 88.
education.
Intensify training for school        Program
directors.                           underway.
Intensify pedagogical inspection   Program
at basic and secondary education   underway.
levels.
Creation of a High Level Comittee  Completed in 1988
on Education, Higher Education and
Research.
OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND LABOR (0FPE)
1. Improve efficiency of   Definition of consultative          Creation of a
administration           framework.                         High Level Commit-
tee on Vocational
Training scheduled
for 3rd quarter
1989.
Restructuring employment and       Creation of the
training administrations.         Vocational Training
and Employment
Office (OFPE)
Law No. 88-60 06/88
Integration of training and        Creation of 23
employment services in the         regional
regions.                           delegations for
Vocational Training
and Employment
(August 1988)



- 39 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA              Annex 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN      Page 4 of 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OBJECTIVES                      MEASURES                        STATUS
Strengthen OFPE's role in         Orientation Law
coordinating vocational           *cheduled for 3rd
training institutions.            quarter 1989.
2. Strengthen linkages      Develop participation of          Board Organization
vith productive          industry representatives to       Decree schediled
sectors                  the Board of OFPE.                for 3rd quarter 89.
Development of training           Training
agreements between OFPE and       Agreements under
industry associations.            preparation vith
banking, textile,
leather, and
agro-industries.
Activate Committees               Progressive
within vocational training        Implementation
centers and progressively         through Training
restructure them into             Agreements.
management committees.
Promote teaching by               Implementation
professionols in vocational       through Training
training centers.                 Agreements and
financial
incentives
provided through
the Employment
Promotion ar,d
Training Fund.
3. Develop apprenticeship  Redefine apprenticeship            Orientation Law
training and             training system.                  scheduled for 3rd
dual training                                              quarter 1989.
Financial
incentives
provided through
the Employment
Promotion and
Training Fund.
Open vocational training          Reorganization of
centers to apprentices.           multi-purpose
centers underway.
Develop dual training             Dual training
activities with productive        activities defined
sectors.                          in the context of
Training
Agreements with
Industry
Association.



- 40 -
REPUELIC 0F TUNISIA S                   1
pDUCATION AuD TRAINING SECTOR LOAN       Page 5 of 5
STA"F APPRAItL  tlO
OBJECTIVES                      MEASURES                         STATUS
4. Improve quality and      Revine statua of vocational        hev statua of
efficiency of training  training instructors.               personnel
progra                                                      ocheduled for 3rd
quarter 1989.
Intensify training of             Strengthening
instructora  nd managerial        of Rades
staff  nd organize in-company    Tralning
trainina for instructors.          Institute
underway.
Develop vocational training        Creation of the
engineering and research.         Pedagogical
Engineering and
Resource Center
(CBIP),
(circular 72 10/88)
Development of orientation        Orientation Law
functions and mechanisms.         scheduled for 3rd
quarter 1989 and
implementation of
6 regional orien-
tation centers
scheuuled for 3rd
quarter 1989.
Development of an information    Implementation
system on professional             in 1990.
insertion.
Develop certification procedures Orientation Law
in collaboration vith employers  scheduled for 3rd
quarter 1989.
Implementation
through Training
Agreements vith
Industry
Associations.
5. Mobilize resources       Reduction in the Payroll Tax.    Finance Law
for training.                                               1989.
Creation of the Employment        To appear in the
Promotion and Training Fund.      Finance Law 1990.
Revise legislation related to    Investment Code
the private vocational training  for t'e services
sector.                           sector scheduled
for 3rd quarter
1989.
Promote in-company training       Creation of the
activities.                       Extension Services
Center
(Circular 72 10/88)



- 41 -
REPUBLIC 0F TUNISIA
Page 1 of 2
EDUCATION AD TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
Criteria for Selection of Sub-Prolects
The criteria agreed upon betveen the Bank and oFm for purposes of
selecting vocational training aub-projects financed under the proposed loan
are the folloving:
(a) Trainina Agreément with Industrv Associations
The evidence of appropriate consultations vith professionals from the
relevant sectors and the existence of a training agreement vith *pecifie
industry associations vill be required. Such an agreement should specify the
respective roles of the parties concerned with regard to the definition of
training objectives and programs, the delivery of training, the certification
process and the management and financing of sectoral training centers.
(b) Economic Relevance Criteria
Proposals for developing sector dedicated training centers should be
made on the basis of a detailed analysis of manpower requirements (in
quantitative and qualitative terms) and a survey of existing training
possibilities in the vocational training system including in-company training
capability.
<c) Pedaaogical Orxanization Criteria
Proposals should be very specific vith regard to the various missions
of the proposed center and the pedagogic organization. The type of training
program proposed, and the mix of theory provided in the reater and practical
training provided in industrial establishments should be tailored to needs of
the various target groupe: young people coming out of the education system
and being trained for a specific job, skilled workers already employed by
industrial companies and apprentices. Priority should be given to the design
and development of modular training programs.
(d) Feasibilitv Criteria
The feasibility analysis vill take into account the folloving
factors: (i) evidence of a demand from industrial establishments and
individuals; (ii) availability of qualified instructors and specific
recommendations for recruiting and training them; (iii) status of buildings
and workshops; and (iv) need for equipment in the propoLed specialization.



- 42 -
Page 2 of 2
(e) Transfer of Technolo&y Criteria
Availability of an adequate level of technical expertise (both in
quantitative and qualitative terua) vill be an essential criteria. Industrial
Associations consider that sectoral centers vill play an essential role
regarding the transfer of technology and expect the best possible
international expurtise in this respect. Technical assistance inputs vill
have to be identified: profiles, duration and sources of recruitment.
(f) Financial Criteria
Availability of financial resources vill also be an important
criteria. A careful analysis of investment coste vith details concerning the
need for minor civil vorks and the need for equipment. Particular attention
should be paid to the assessment of recurrent coste implications of proposed
training activities. The availability of local resources (OFPE, Industrial
Associations) to cover instructor salaries, materials, maintenance costs,
utilities and others vill be spelled out.



- 43 -
REUBIC 0FP TUNSIA
EDUCATIO  A      iAiUNC sEcTOR LOA
Pa&e 1 of 3
r UIC XC*EIOm STATIhTIIS
Net enrollment ratios by ses for children in urban end rural areas
ÂGE "RAig
6 TO 9            10 TO_L.                6TO 14
URBA:
MALES                      90.1X               88.8%                 89.4S
FEMALES                    88.3X               83.1                 85.5%
TOTAL:                    89.2X               86.0X                 87.4%
RURAL:
MALES                      77.0X               t6 1X                 76.6%
FEMALES                    59.9X               45.0%                 52.4%
TOTAL:                    68.7X               61.1X                 64.9%
TOTAL:
MALES                      83.1%               82.5X                 82.8%
FEMALES                    73.41               64.51                  8 7X
TOTAL:                    78.41               73.7X                 75.9X
Ministry of Planning - based on 1984 census data.
Table 2
Percentage of repeaters and dropouts in primary grades (End of 1986-87)
Grade                   1         2         3        4         5        6
Repeaters     Male   20.9       21.1      21.7     22.3      27.5     38.4
Female 19.5       18.8     17.6     18.5      23.5     35.8
Dropoute      Male    1.6        1.9       3.1      4.3       8.7
Female  3.4        3,5      4.7      6.3      10.4



REPULIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATIOIN AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
Table 3
RATE OF SUCCESS IN JUNE 1987 EXAMTNATTOn FOR ADMISSOTN TO CRAnFR 7, RV RFGI0N
c-------
CAJIDATES                     PASSED  TO GENERAL                       PASSED  TO  VOCATTONAT.               ATE OF SUCESS
x            x             x           x m.          X F.          x T.         XE.          X F.          x I.   ZN.  xF.   x T.
REGION    MALES  HALES  FEN.  FEN.  TOTAL  TOTAL  HALES CANO.  FEN.  CAND. TOTAL  CANO.  NALES CANO. FEN.  CAxD. TOTAL  CAMD. CAXD.  CAXD.  CAS>.
TLUNIS    11,572 51.0X 11,109 49.02 22,681 10.7X  3,638 31.4X  3,884 35.02  7,522 33.22  1,040  9.0o  1,032  9.3x  2,072  9.1K 40.43X «4.25s 42.30%
ARIANA     6,538 53.72  5,644 46.32 12,182  5.8X  1,726 26.42  1,657 29.4x  3,383 27.8s    603  9.2x   533  9.42  1.136  9.3x 35.62x 38.90E 37.10E
BEM AROUS  4,245 52.6%  3.821 47.4X  8.066  3.8s  1.496 35.22  1,480 38.7x  2,976 36.9x    591 13.92   513 13.4X  1,104 13.7X 49.16E 52.16X 50.5ss
ZAGHOUAN   2,177 62.2X  1,325 37.8X  3,502  1.72    376 17.3X    266 20.12    642 18.J%    234 10.7X   100  7.5s    334  9.5x 28.02x 27.62X 27.87X
BIZERTE    7,259 56.92  5,497 43.12 12,756  6.0X  1,732 23.92  1,579 28.7x  3,311 26.0X    907 12.52   625 11.42  1.532 12.0X 36.352 40.092 37.97x
BIJA       4,280 58.82  2.994 41.22  7,274  3.42    831 19.42    683 22.82  1,514 20.82    413  9.6E   288  9.6X    701  9.6E 29.07x 32.43X 30.452
JENDOUBA   5,556 60.6X  3,615 39.4x  9.171  4.32  1.212 21.J2    937 25.9s  2,149 23.4X    666 12.02   339  9.4%  1,005 11.OX 33.80E 35.30x 34.39x
LE KEF     4,194 56.02  3,298 44.02  7,492  3.5E  1,103 26.3X    954 28.9s  2,057 27.5s    625 14.92   480 14.6X  1,105 14.72 41.20X 43.48x 42.21X
SILIANA    4,499 61.9X  2,765 38.12  7,264  3.42    928 20.6X    685 24.8s  1,613 22.22    499 11.1   300 10.82    799 11.0X 31.7m  35.62x 33.20X
KASSERINE  5,712 64.2X  3,183 35.82  8.895  4.22  1,432 25.12    902 28.3x  2,334 26.2X    848 14.82   499 15.72  1,347 15.1X 39.92x $4.02X 41.30x
SIDI BOUS  6,108 65.82  3,170 34.22  9,278  4.4E  1,240 20.3X    670 21.1E  1,910 20.6X    604  9.9s   341 10.82    945 10.22 30.19X 31.092 30.7m
GAFSA      5,390 59.2X  3,716 40.8x  9,106  4.32  1,299 24.1X    906 24.42  2,235 24.2X    562 10.42   402 10.82    964 10.6X 34.53x 35.20E 34.80X
TOZEUR     1,423 54.2X  1,204 45.8X  2,627  1.22    237 16.7X    260 21.6X    497 18.92    102  7.22    85  7.1E    187  7.1E 23.M22 28.65E 26.04X
KEBILI     2,030 56.3x  1,578 43.72  3,608  1.72    669 33 D0    509 32.32  1,178 32.62    312 15.4E   257 16.3E    569 15.8X 48.33E 48.54s  48.42X
TATAOUINE  1,950 64.4X  1,079 35.6x  3,029  1.4X    479 24.6X    272 25.22    751 24.8s    263 13.52   143 13.3E    406 13.4E 38.05s  38.46X 38.20w
REDENINE   5,007 61.22  3,171 38.82  8,178  3.9s  1,319 26.3E    907 28.6x  2,226 27.2X    650 13.0X   340 10.7E    990 12.12 39.32x 39.33x 39.33x
GABES      4,162 59.7x  2,813 40.32  6,975  3.3X  1,220 29.32    971 34.52  2,191 31.42    652 15.7X   384 13.7X  1,036 14.9 44.982 48.17X 46.27X
SFAX       8,436 57.7x  6,186 42.3X 14,622  6.9s  2,682 31.SX  2,247 36.32  4,929 33.72    874 10.4X   549  8.92  1,423  9.7x 42.15X 45.20x 43.442
MANDIA     5,317 63.1X  3,115 36.9x  8,432  4.0X  1,160 21.8x    836 26.8X  1,996 Z3.7X    672 12.6X   312 10.OX    984 11.7E 34.46X 36.8s5  35.34x
KAIROUAN   7,626 64.6X  4,179 35.42 11,805  5.62  1,577 20.72  1,088 26.0X  2,665 22.6X  1,069 14.0X   493 11.8x  1,562 13.2X 34.702 37.83u  35.812
MONASTIR   5,001 52.5s  4,524 47.52  9,525  4.52  1,289 25.8s  1,337  s.62  2,626 27.6X    520 10.42   419  9.32    939  9.9s  36.17X 38.82x 3r.43x P
GQ
SOUSSE     5,739 54.52  4,784 45.52 10,523  5.02  1,709 29.8s  1,574 32.92  3,283 31.22    715 12.52   551 11.5x  1,266 12.02 42.24E 44.42X 43.23X 2 
NABEUL     7,987 54.5s  6,660 45.52 14,647  6.9x  1,899 23.8x  1,817 27.3X  3,716 25.42    880 11.0   679 10.2X  1,559 10.6E 34.79x 37.48x 36.012
G.TOTAL  122,208        89,430       211,638        31,253 25.6x 26,421 29.52 57,674 27.3X 14,301 11.7X 9,664 10.8X 23,965 11.32 37.2sx 40.35s  38  57>
0



- 45 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA                ANNEX 3
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN    Page 3 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table 4
WEEKLY HOURS DISTRIBUTION OF THE 1987-88 PRIMARY CURRICULUM
-------------------------------------------_--_---_-_--_____
GRADES
I       II      III       IV      V        VI
-----------------------_----------_-________----_---------- ------------
ARABIC                    11:00   14:30   14:10    7:25    6:20    5:50
ISLAMIC & MORAL EDUC.    2:00    2:30    2:40    1:30    1:00    1:00
NATIONAI, & CIVIL EDUC.                                       0:30    0:30
GEOGRAPHIC MEDIUM                            0:40    0:20
GEOGRAPHY                                                     0:45    0:45
HISTORY                                                       0:45    0:45
ARITHMETI                  4:10    4:00    4:00    3:30    3:00    3:30
SCIENCE AWAKENING          1:00    2:00    1:20    0:40    1:20    1:20
MANUAL EDUCATION           0:30    0:30    0:30    0:30
DRAWING                    0:30    0:30    0:30    0:30   (0:45   (0:45
__________  ___________  ___________  _________ -_
TOTAL OF SUBJECTS IN       19:10  24:00   23:50   14:25   14:25   14:25
ARABIC
FRENCH                              5:00    5:00   12:05   12:05   12:05
BREAKS/INTERMISSIONS       0:50    1:00    1:00    1:00    1:00    1:00
TOTAL--20:00--30:00-29:50     --27:30 -27:30--27:30
TOTAL                     20:00   30:00   29:50   27:30   27:30   27:30



- 46 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
ALnox 4
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Basie Data on the Vocational Train1nn Soetor
Table 1    1986!87 Enroll»nts - 1987 Graduates
Skilled Work.       Technicans       saccal. Techn.          Total
(Gr. 7-91         (Gr. 10-121         (Gr  10-13)
Enrcl     Grad     Enrol      Grad     Enrcl     Grad,      rnrl     Grad
MEN            52,000   15,000    26,000    7,500       9,000    2,000    87 000   24,500
OFPE                                7,500    6,500                          7,500    6.500
Other Minist.   4,750    2,300      3,850    2,100                          8,600    4,400
Private Sect.                      17500   3.000                           17.500   3.000
Total     56,750   17,300    54,850   19,100       9,000    2,000   120,600   38,400
Table 2: Trainino oroanized bv Soecialized Ministries: 1986/87 Enroll1ents
Technicians     Skilled Workers      Iaul.
-  Ministry of Agriculture                             600                2,000       2,600
- Ministry of Social Affairs
"Office National de l'Artisanat"                                    2,100        2,100
-  Ministry of Youth and Sports                                             600         600
-  Ministry of Health                                2,000                            2,000
-  Ministry of Tourisu
"Office Nationale du Tourisme"                   900                               900
-  Ministry of Comunicati-ns                           150                   50         200
- Ministry of Transportation
"Ecole de la Marine Marchande"                    50                                50
- Ministry of Fisheries
"Office de la Piche"                              lSO                              150
Total                                      3,850                4,750        8,600
Further details on regional distribution are given in Annex 3.
Table 3.  Number of ARorentices bv Sector in 1986/87
Number of             % Apprent. to Labor
S etor          Labor Force           Aaorenticei                    Force
Industry               345,100                25,890                          7.5
Construction            233,900                17,540                         7.5
Services                 77,600                5,370                          6.9
Comerce                  26,000                 5,950                        22.9
Agriculture             174.100               .13.0007
(Wage workers)
Total             856,700                67,750                         7.9



- 47 -
*DO"LIC 0?1011111
E19CltlOI ID SUAIIIU SIO LOA
Elemtios S.tcr   nluestaut uld Car t l          Ud.t
.... .... .... .... ... .... .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Curtat lisais 008)
I                   ~~~~~~................................................................
1m9(it   0 1 98          13     18       10        95     18       18        91     1
1-IIlS?1? 01 WlCOI
!UAlI?                        2,915   4,U49   4,813   6,921   1,212   8102   l,l94   9,193   8.1t
tscoui                        6,510   9,l38  11,117  11,221  11,145  11,411  IS,III  15,143  U0,l20
....   .. .........       -  --......  ......   .  ....  .....  .  .......
MOtAL ME)N:                   9,535  14,141  22,010  24,154  25,021  21,913  24,674  24,031  21,220
2-liistil ce 01111 IDOCltlOI
MOtAL Ml:                     9,101   I,U4I  10,2  11,644  11,141  19,265  11,240  14,50   19,50
3-IgcATIOI SECTOR              19,135  22,645  33,052  35,178  31,010  46,330  35,922  31,336  48,120
1-IIIISTRY Dl EDICATIOI
P11flsfi 1
SALIES            14,851   73150  92,149111,425 129,817 145,314 185,531 175,173 183,671 194,712
00-SiLAI?          1,341   1,416   2,017   2,327   2,2917   2,546   2,625   4,287   3,131   4,254
* tUAISIIOS            160   1,056   1,1174   1,440   1,1441   1,413   1,1473   1,181   1,255   2,546
X tOtAL           66,851  75,622  95,230 115,192 133,624 149,323 169,628 181,141 111,657 201.512
SRC«.ARY
SALAIIS           52,089  60,800  78,428  94,080 111,543 121,915 131,119 136,471 148,274 162,482
00-SALAI           S,092   5,397   6,657   7,577   8,115   9,640   9,435   I,901   9,497  10,730
tiAISEllS          2,141   2,162   2,033   2,140   2,480   2,539   1,134   2,074   2,225   5,960
TOTAL              9,3    u,l9    ',111104,117 119,13i   133,084 141,280  149,451 159,996 179,172
CUIlU UIlOlSflA?0
U 88111            1,679   1,89    3,225   2,41?   3,088   3,141   4,751   3,233   3,340   6,605
*    U-IILAI?      1,111   1,1 4      714     912   1,026   1,150   1,050   1,378   1,1426   1600
Ill10m                Si       a        45      80       81       82      82       36       40     121
tOtlTL             2911   3,12'   4,044   3,1469   4,194   4,372   5,183   4,647   4,1806   8,326
S1 181 M UIUIl ul lIOtCtI
*   U 881811    .111,419 131,4  113,812 2079192 241,511 209,349 300,480 317,311 335,285 363,799
M-UALUI?        7,120U  l,9n    9,430  10,816  11,431  13,336  13.110  14,571  14,654  16,594
S 188168W          3,057   3,104   3,292   4,001   4,000   4,094   3,289   3,291   3,520   1,627
tOIAL            121,84 14S,941 18,     11 , 222,770 256,956 286,719 316,799 335,239 353,459 3890121
2-1111811.? W 111 11WDUCAt'O0
SU111           14,335  17,591  24,022  25,041  21,096  30,207  35,363  31,998  40,447  U.115
lO-SAAIT           5,804   5,664   7,787   8,753  12,103  13,826  13,462  14,220  15,649  16,614
* ?IAIS1ESS       11,663  12,145  10,410  18,654  18,3617  19,79   19,515  22.050  21,666  21.5O 1
tOTAL             31,802  31,000  42,279  52,441  5,566  63,830  68,400  74,268  77,762  11,370
3-lD0CATIOI SICTOR  1I6,8I8 182,941 228,671 275,226 315,522 3$0,609 315,191 4119,507 431,221 400,390



- 48 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA                                      Annex 6
EDUCATION ANO TRAININ6 SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OFPE Investtnt and Current Budgets
(Current Dinars 000)
1982     1983      1984     1985      1986     1997      1988
-- -   - -  --  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -  - -  - - - - - -  - - - _-_-_-_-_            -    _-  _
INVESTNENT BUDGET                                        3,700    2,700    2,172    1,707         NA
RECURRENT BUD6ET
. SALARIES                                               6,425    7.002    7.758    8.310    9,126
. NON-SALARY                                             3,799    4,079    3,672    3,530    3,574
TOTAL                                                 10,223   11,080   11,430   11,840   12,700
TFP 11
TOTAL ANOUNT                             NA       NA        NA   10,348   11,696   12,402
TFP PAID DY ENTERPRISES
BENEFITTIN6 FROM TAI
RE8ATE                                4,257    5,273    6,565    6,943    7,720
TAX RE8ATE ANOUNT                     1,893    2.135    2.355    2,210    2,348
I Vocatianal Training Tax



- 49 -                                       AnLx 7
REPU8LIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION AMD TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Actga                      REFORM PROGRAC   TARGET
1988/89    1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93   1993/94
PRIMARY EDUCATION (1-6)
Total enrollments                 1,326,000  1,355,000 1,377,000 1,399,000 1,416,000 1,432,000
Number of students per clast           30.5        30.5       30.5      30.5       30.5       30.5
Number of student-classes            43,466      44,414    45,129    45,848    46,381    46,874
Number of schools with
lunch services                1,705      1,720      1,740      1,760     1,780      1,800
Nunbr of canteens                      200          250        550        850     1,15W      1,450
Drop out rate in grade 5               8.7%        8.5%       8.0%      7.5%       7.0%       6.5%
Drop ouit rate in grade 6             21.1%         20%        20%       20%        15%        15%
Net Enrollment ratio                  85.0%       85.1%      85.2%     85.5%      85.6%      85.8%
Girl enrollment as a %
of total enrollments                45.1%       45.2%     45.3%      45.4%      45.6%      45.7%
Number of teachers                   45,600      46,850    48,000    49,750    51,400    52,100
SECONDARY EDUCATION
FIRST CYCLE OF SECONDARY EDUCATION (7-9)
Total enrollments
Grades 7, 8, & 9                248,000    278,000   312,000   325,000   346,000   381,000
Vocational Education             43,000      29,000    ,1,000          0          0          0
Number of students per class           35.4        35.4       35.4      35.4       35.4       35.4
Number of student-classes
Grades 7, 8, & 9                  6,987       7,876     8,879      9,301      9,881    10,882
Vocational Education              1,500       1,017       393          0          0          0
Number of boarding students          34,200      36,800    42,000    45,500    51,900    57,200
Passing rate to grade 10                68%        68%         68%       68%        68%        68%
Girl enrollment as %
of total enrolliments                44.3%       44.4%     44.5%      44.6%      44.7%      44.8%
SECOND CYCLE OF SECONDARY EDUCATION (10-13)
Total enrollments                   182,000    191,000   199,000   222,000   243,000   264,000
Number of students per class           31.5        31.5       31.5      31.5       31.5       31.5
Number of student-classes            5S800        5.931      6.181     6,895      7,534      8,153
Number of boarding students          28,600      30,000    31,200    34,900    38,200    41,500
Girl enrollment as %
of total enrollments                44.2%       44.3%     44.4%      44.5%      44.6%     44./%
FIRST ANO SECOND CYCLES OF SECONDARY EDUCATION (7-13)
Number of schools                       474         510        545        580       615        655
Number of boarding facilities           185         188        201       210        227        248
Number of teachers                   25,800      26,700    27,800    29,150    31,350    34,250
Teacher/class ratio                     1.8         1.8        1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8
Number of non-teaching staff         20,800      21,300    22,000    22,900    24,000    25,000



ANNEX 8
REPUIBLIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
In>act of the Education Refon
Variance
Current Syste                  Basic Education          Basic Education - Currmnt Svst_
8th Plan       9th Plan        8th Plan       9th Plan          8th  Plan        Rth Plan
ENROLLHENTS . DROPOUTS
Enrollents:
Pri.ary Education (grades 1-6)                  1,607,183      1,811,211      1,546.173      1.702,173           -61,010        -109,038
First Cycle Secondary Education (grades 7-9)    372.429          412.470        495,145        564, 507          122,716          152,037
Total Enrollients                               1,979,612      2,223,681      2,041,318      2,266.680            61.706           42.999
Dropouts:
Primary Education                                 445,966        498,214        3 5,564        314,896          -130.402        -183,318
lst Cycle Secondary Education                     145,849        161,748        172,458        221,371            26,609          59,623
Total Dropouts                                    591,815        659,962        488.022        536,267          -103.793        -123,695
INVESTMENT BUDGET
ML!ber of 
Additional primary school classrooms              2,758          3,489           1,894         2.646             - 864            - 843
Additional ITN workshops                                                         1,202           810             1,202              810
Secondary schools to be built                        59             43             191            74               132               31              1
Investjnt ICosts:  (in constant TO million)                                                                                                           CD
Priuary education                                32,857         41,570         22,557         31,538           -10,300        - 10,032              °
ITM                                                                            30,050         20,267            30,050          20,267
lst Cycle Secondary Education:
Construction                                   46,525         33,653        149,664         58,297           103,139          24,644
Equipuent                                       6,055         4.380          19,478          7.587            13,423           3,207
Total Cost lst Cycle Secondary Education         52.580         38.033        169,142         65.884           116,562           27,851
Total Investment Costs                             85,437         79,603        221,749        117,689           136,312           38.086
RECURRENT BUDGET
Additional needs in teachers 1/
Primary Education                                 6,179          7,420          4,712          5.991           - 1,467         - 1,429
lst Cycle Secondary Education                     2,770          1,532          9,768          2,950             6.998            1.418
Recurrent Costs: (in constant TO million)
Primary Education                                 1,084          1,218           1,055         1.153              - 31             - 65
lst Cycle Secondary Education                       506            561            606            769               100              208
2nd Cycle Secondary Education                       558            658             558           658                 0                0
Administration                                       32             39              32            39                 0                0
Total Recurrent Costs                               2,180          2,476           2,251         2,619                71              143
1/  Based on 30 hour-posts for the lst and 2nd cycles and 20 hour-posts for the 3rd cycle of basic education.



- 51 -
DEPUELIC OF TuNISIA
EtJUCATION Au TRAINIHG SECTOR LOAN
Criteria for the Distribution of books and ucati  1a materiala
The folloving criteria have been agreed betveen the Bunk and the
Ministry of Education for selecting the *choola which qualify for receivina
books and educational materiala under the proposed loan.
a.       Pedaaoaicai Imnrovement Plans
Individual *choola vill be invited to submit pedagogical improvement
plans to the MEN. Typically a pedagogical improvement plan vill *pecify
objectives in terms of learning achievement for the students, target group,
set of activities aiming at meeting the objectives and mee2na necessary to
implement these activities.
b.       TvyRe of achool
Priority vill be given to basic education levels. Primary schools
(grades 1 through 6) and upper basic education schools (grades 7 through 9)
vill be avarded up to tvo thirds of the total amount of the category, while
secondary achools vill be avarded the remaining third.
In addition, priority vill be given to achools located in under-
privileged areas, here defined as areas where school enrollmenta are below
national average.
c.       Communitv Particioation
Priority vill be given to schools which have been successful in
mobilizing additional resources cor implementing the proposed pedagogical
im1rovement plan. This vould include mainly participation in the project by
Parents Teachers Associations, the Business Community or other sources.



- 52 -
REPUDLIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION AM  TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Tochnical Assistance Ex*erts
(staff onths)
CosDo  nt                       1989/90  lfMi/l  1991/U2  1992f93  19i3194  To
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
I. Curriculum Design  nd Develoien t            19       il         6                           36
II. Textbook Developunt and Publishing            2        3                                      5
III. Teacher Training                             10        8         6                           24
IV. Neasurement and Evaluation                    6        3         3                           12
V. Educational Management                        4         2                                     6
VI. Maintenance of buildings                      1         2                                     3
VII. Evaluation and studios                                  3        3        12                 18
Subtotal MEN                 42        3                             Q       104
OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT
Development of Sectoral Training Centers  15          23        23        18       12        91
Subtotal OFPE                là                           j, 21  1l           21
TOTAL EXPERTS                 27       5         41                 i        in9
Technical Assistance:  Fellowshios and Studv Tours
(staff months)
Canonan±                        1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992193              frta1
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
I. Curriculum Design and Devolopuent                     33        18         3                 54
Il. Textbook Doevolopment and Publishing         18        6         3                           27
111. Moaturement and Evaluation                            30        12         3                 45
IV. Educational Management                        9        6         6         3                 24
V. Maintenance of buildings                      3         2        3         2                 10
Total Fallowships and Study Tours  IQ          z         U2       il                lm



Page i1 o2 2
REPUBIL.IC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION ANO TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Inolenentation Schedule
CY      89 -    l         90  1    9       1     ;      1     9             9'
.   Cooonent            FY   89         90           91            92           93            94
MINISTRY OF EDUWCATION
School Rehabilitation Proprar
Minor Civil Works                               XXXXXXXXXX<KXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXX
Canteens for Primarv Schools                               1            1
Construction                                    XXXXXXXXXX KXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXXI XXX
Equipment/Furniture                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX>XXX XXXXXXXXXXX M XXXXXXX
Construction of new schools (7.8.9)                                                   j
Construction                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKX-KXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX
Equipment/Furniture                                    XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX  (XXXXXXXXXXX M                                             LnXXXXXXX  DUCXX
Coolementarv Prooram for Eauipment
Coçuter Education                                              XXXXXXXXXXXXX
Maintenance Center                                             XXXXXXXXXXXXX
Vehicles for Inspection                                        XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Books. Docunentation and Materials                  
Reading Books for Secondary Schools                            XXXXXXXX   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Educational Materials for                                               I             I
Primary Schools                                            XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
Institutional Develoopent                                  1              
Foreign Fellowships                             XXXXXXXXXX MXXXXXXXXXXXK XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXX
Expert Services                                 XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
In-service Training a                                                   1  
In-coun.ry training                             XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX (XXXXXXXXXXX    XX        M K <XXXXXXXXXOOOC XXX
Equipment                                       XXXXXXXXXXM XXXKXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXI.UJXXXJ                       oQ Cr
Project Comletion -  September 30, 1994                  1                    o
Closing Date -  March 31, 1995                                   Ni
t3-



SCHEDULE II
Page 2 of 2
REPUUBLIC OF TUNISIA
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
In,le _mntation Schedule
CY      89      l                                        l 1 1 9    :
Co.oenent               FY   89         90J           91                    - 92  939
Develoment of
Sectoral Trainino Centers
Construction                                      XXXXXXXXXkxxxxxxxxxxxx 'XXXXxXXXXX    XKXXXXXXXXXXX XX XXXXXXXXXX  X   CCXX
Equipuent                                        XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXCXXCX CCXXXX
Expert Services                                  XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXX       X    XXXX XXXXXXXXXX"VXXXX
Project Completion - Septeber 30, 1994IE            E!_
Closing Date -   arch 31. 1995
*0
e-l
Ni
Ft l



~~ 55   ~ ~    ~         S~chedule III
REPUELIC OF TUNISIA
EDuCATion AUD TAikinG SECTOR LOA
latiaated Schedule ôf oan Diaburmement
(US$ million>
IBID                                                     Diabursementa
Fiscalh Y«urtrOarter                                              cmltv
F790
Firet                        0.0              0.0
Second                      4.0               4.0
Third                        4.0              8.0
Fourth                      4.0              12.0
Fl91
First                       4.0              16.0
Second                      4.0              20.0
Third                        4.0             24.0
Fourth                       4.5             28.5
F792
Firet                        4.5             33.0
Second                      4.5              37.5
Third                        5.0             42.5
Fourth                       5.5             48.0
FY93
Firet                        6.0             54.0
Second                       6.0             60.0
Third                        5.5             65.5
Fourth                       5.5             71.0
FY94
First                        5.0             76.0
Second                      4.5              80.5
Third                        4.0             84.5
Fourth                       4.0             88.5
FY95
Firet                        3.0             91.5
Second                       2.0             93.5
Third                        1.5             95.0
0754g/53



- 56 -
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA                               Chart I
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STRUCTURE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMIRE
ET SECONDAIRE EN TUNISIE VU. PLAN
UNIVERSITiE
ET                     -     _
ETAULLSSEMENTS D'ENSESNEMENT SUPEPIEUR                         MARCHE
DE L'EMPLOÎ
VDIPLOMSE D)r l'IN                                                                .
D'LTUIOft.S                          .    ,
%F.(O )NIAIRLI.               BACCALAUREAT              7c A SPEC-IALE
l~~~~~~~~~~~    T
H      2                  2         «               DlPLOtHE DE TEbNICtEN
IA                     4 UZ            4 Z   zZ-
0~ 3                                  -  E                  m 
A                                          A  Z          4f A    ESEINEEN
CONCOURS
_   ,                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUrTRES 
STRUCTURES,L
DE FORMATION|
-    .  | ~~ORIENTATIO=N  i----       -_ 
-                       & ~~~~~~~MARCHE DE|
L'EMPLOI|
P    .TRONC COMMUN| 
2e^,ENSEIGNEMENT                                 .
.  SECONDAIRE LONGC|                   AUTRES
*   -              - w  ~~~~STRUCTURES
I        r            ~~~~~~DE FORMATION
I  Concours Ntfalbu d'Accus een 1               B
Ann de l'Ensardeæmmt Secrc | e
*             $  ~~~~7csx Année:.l
-6ancm    ENSEIGNEMENT|              
1 5^mc ^ | PRIMAIRE    |
I -2-||sC I(6  nne«m     parurI
:Ê   A-^     de 1'4ce de 6 am)



- 57 -
REPUBLIC 0  TUNtSIA                       Cart II
EDUCATION AND TIAIEXIH SECToR LOMN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
n UVB=  àTyUU DE
L'E1            flf h&IE Er 8sC54DADEE
4e A  Lettres et                 4e A  Sciences               4e A  Sciences
Sc. Huaines                                                  Teebniques
Gestion             Sciences  Kath   Sciences        Génie    Génie
Lettres   Admin.                expn.         [conouiques    Néca.    Elect.
3e A  Lettres et                 3e A  Sciences               3e A  Sciences
Sc. Humaines                                                 Tecbniques
|Gestion             Sciences  Math   Sciences        Génie    Génie
Lettres   Admin.                               Economiques _Mca.    Elect.
0754      8 .29e Anne
I  ~~~~~~~~~~1Tronc Commun
9e Annee |w
8e Année         
7e Année
6e Année       Eco'le de Base
5e Anée
4e Année
3e Année
2e Année
lière_Année        
0754g/03.28.89



- 58 -
Fé_Tj~~~~"                                            -       .è»        |\*  * to*uo 
'It~~~~~~~~~~~~~l atita  z                          bems            Pri      u.       1        S       vi  et
Imn8-                                         5    h i I
musA  hk.uss *a    Itrié                                              Uflas
Lum~~ am        :et:wq
Sq.wui                 jf          iai  .                      .as                         S B            hu   tNê Pi                     i et
IU_          l ta  itlz   h_«t et                   t4dn 1 Wnt~4 I         _d 3_  d |I_         _ tI:W
i~~ Ihis.,   I  .  lu8    tum iau   I   êgaus              fpj                               "Imm
* ! g 'huiuu.wA-    In                 i I      "       I             I ,;tttx«!''
lU      ~~~~utiwu               W                                            m     oute
ta                          k its ,      au   .          I.                              k               IiitMà.t        ltv.au .8
ah Ciur        *t Camal.t   1Prison xssa  t1 issu.                            l t usse          P I  uss     Las-sé  UhtIs   Plumas
.w.48 *f la.1      i -                                        _      _                             I i
NiA   d           II         N i   r .     IUi lsa| Ssiis ttl1 d     ieus ,8 _elo ato                 i ?ta  "                      of
1.51         huB*t.lasz     ils Pris    msanti. Mi I  huas .8               ha Pr *n          Nufi a h    -l | uisais e    | Prim l
huaL_  lau-      â..   lian                             i  !    à           _                                                   el tn | C   l
lissA hie..  tiesoL  CeAlunA    lieu. .1        agi PrnuIs      S.uiiU r5    ,   e     i        hlt *u I iet
huiss  1aA       hillui  1 Iumiua                              1<1.            lsI  sIlu       LUklt               I 1. hI        li_1 Ut I
li. et tlztin-       AISA        @_ *lft @ , i Utr41 .8                                ls        hIani.Met          I n  .
humas,? Us                      ticisias .8 |   &1#  |  i.lS ttl_                       t u i      Métis
I tsta      '              |    P                             ietin t   | |               t |    Slta
Iois  .   ttr4à 8  M  Sbete km                                                  loi
à_   tFe              ém       bel@ *t l       r*1 11              .u F 
i as    t^e"stém   ' l   ttFlr nIl                                          f   lasi  lu
~~~~lIeclmai    _     !  "   l_ t ai.,
| i.smu  i   I     |IIr4tj. Sctid
tectîse .8     S.eîiu                                 lot
f                                      2 ^s^ tzz~~~~~~~~~~~~le 11114  |tb   nOr  wm  à|i                       t    1    thlS           lzS^
I.îuîatîc.    |asWeiîas  Utun |.,« mt
lu,ussî si  P.iu.uîui  CeAluni *t  i|tl                                                    ad
C iS elalîcail ,maaae      ,         trù                                   +                I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uuials .-~                                                                             I !emesa.&                         Setz  
|                       1 -  it  "                                                     I   ~~~        ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:arti
omiq
Ij <Sfl *54 :
I . i&  u                                                                                    1,       tai
|                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~éisen.u  |
Itraell:
il     I
I                                        ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rîmn u~:
I                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I >ft.S
h.ne e l.
I                                        I  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eîltl,



MJINIslN RI 11 ', A I AIRI , ',ti [At I 
OFFICE DE LA FORMIION PUOFESSIOMEtE 1l DE LEMI-OI
r NSE1IL 
D AD'^OINISTRATION
[PRE IDENT DIRE TEV
A                                           GNERGE RAL I
DIRECTEUR  J EN.TAR I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
| ADJOINT                                                           I  ERA        I
(Technique)                                                        (administrative)
C..I..DIV. COOR. Cm.RI
1-0-
1     1 Il                                D     I    -
c        s ~1 1 IDI3
A                                             E |            N             P
O                                 ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~L  N  AS
E       I    N
s        WACEI                    ~~      ~~ ~~~~~G  S  C
A   G         1
T   R     E
I   A     R               LEGEEJE
0       r     E
S   I                     1 E  DtI_RECTIONS-
E                    D.P.P.D.    Direction des progr_mes et projets de développemnt
R                             D.P.S.      Oirection de la planification et des statistiques
E                             D.F.I.      Direction de la formation institutionnelle
G                             O.F.E.P.Q.  Direction de la formation en entreprise et de
I                                         promotion des qualifications
O                             O.P.S.T.    Oirection, promotion supérieure du travail
N                             D.R.E.O     Direction des réseaux d'emploi et d'orientation
A                             O.A.        Direction administrative
L                            D.F.         Direction financière
E                            DE..1r.      Direction équipement et travaux
S                            D. COOP.    Direction de la coopération
D.l.O.M.    Direction de l'informatique de l'organisation
et des méthoees
O.I.G.      Direction de l'inspection générale
2. LES CENTRES
C.R.I.P.    Centre de res;ources et d'ingénierie pédagogique
C.A.C.E.    Centre d'assistance et conseil aux entreprises
I F C.      Institut de la Formation des Cadres
3  DIV  COORD. R.C.      Divisions de la coordination zentrale
et régionale.



- 60 -                            Chart V
EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR LOAN
STRUCTURE OF REGIONAL ADMINISTRATION
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
DIRECTEUI GEREAL|
SOUs D1reEteur~ d                                Sous Directeur de
l'Enseign. Prim.                                 l'Enseian, ;econd
er ae àer lce       (Services Comuns)              e   e  erv ce
I Enoeiin. Primaire I                             Enseign_ Secondair
Chef de Service
IAdminist-Financier
Chef de Service
de la Planification
des Bâtiments et
de l'EguiPement
Chef de Service
des Activités   l
Socio-Culturelles
0724g/p5



-61-                        Chart VI
EDUCATION AND TEAIIING SECTOP LOAN
OPCIIZATIONAL STEUCTUE0 OF om
tlCIOIUL  DFS%OB
DRLGmE A L'BEPLOI ET LA
FOXMATION PPOFESSIOMIELLE
Coordination 1                             Gestion des
lSynthèse                               |Moyens       |
|Cont-rôle de 
Dépen es|
Inforation      Relations                  Programe Spéciaux
Orientation       avec                      Et Développement
Profession     Entreprises                      Régional
Le                 Les Agences              Lea
B.R.A.           A l'Emplo4 e  à la          CF.P
Formation
Professionnelle
0724g/p4



NOTES
l



