Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3054 TUN
               (Education and Training Sector Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated June 30, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3054 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 30,  1989,  between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied  itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions  Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in   the   General  Conditions  have  the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
    (a)  "MEN"  means   the   Borrower's   Ministry   of  National
Education;
    (b)  "OFPE" means Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de
l'Emploi, the Borrower's Office of Vocational Training and Employ-
ment established under Law No. 88.60 of June 8, 1988;
    (c)  "Education and  Training  Sector  Action  Plan" means the
Borrower's action plan for  its  education  and training sector as
furnished to the Bank;
                               - 2 -
  (d)  "Sub-project" means a specific sub-project under Part B.1
of the Project;
    (e)  "Project  Coordinators"  means  the  Project coordinators
appointed by the  Borrower's  Decision  No.  706  CAB of March 17,
1989, for the MEN Coordinator  and  the Borrower's Circular No. 38
of March 22, 1989, for the OFPE Cordinator;
    (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
    (g)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs
from January 1 to December 31; and
    (h)  "TD"  or  "Tunisian  Dinars"  mean  the  currency  of the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to  lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equi-
valent to the amount of ninety-five million dollars ($95,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a  special  account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1995 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall  pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
Page  3
to time.
    Section 2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
    (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the  end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
    (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
its  MEN  and  OFPE  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
conformity with  appropriate  administrative, financial, engineer-
ing, training and education practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. For  purposes  of  overall  coordination in the
carrying out  of  the  Project  and  monitoring  its progress, the
Borrower shall maintain a Project  Coordinator  in each of MEN and
OFPE.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  not later than Octo-
ber 31, each year review with  the Bank: (i) the progress achieved
in carrying out its reform program  set forth in its Education and
Training  Sector  Action  Plan;  (ii)  the  progress  achieved  in
carrying out its  school  construction  program  referred to under
Part A.1 of the  Project;  and  (iii)  the proposed investment and
recurrent expenditures  budgets  of  MEN  for  the following year,
including the level of  non-salary  expenditures; and (b) based on
such review, take  all  necessary  measures  to adjust such reform
program,  construction   program   and   proposed  investment  and
recurrent expenditures budgets.
     Section 3.05. For purposes  of  carrying  out Part A.4 of the
Page  4
Project, the Borrower shall: (a)  cause the schools to prepare and
submit to its MEN  for  its approval pedagogical improvement plans
comprising the elements set forth in  Paragraph I of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement which to be  carried out require the acquisition of
books and educational materials to be financed under the Loan; and
(b) appraise through  its  MEN  each  such pedagogical improvement
plan taking into account the  priorities set forth in Paragraph II
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.06. For  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part B of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause OFPE to: (a) based on the proce-
dures set forth  in  Schedule  7  to  this Agreement, identify and
appraise  Sub-projects  to  be   financed   under  the  Loan;  and
(b) thereafter,  submit  each  Sub-project  to  the  Bank  for its
approval.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
               ably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
Page  5
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out its Education and Training Sector Action Plan,
which sets  forth  the  Borrower's  priorities  and  objectives in
reforming its education and training  sector, in a timely fashion;
and
     (b)  not later than December 31,  1993: (i) carry out a study
under terms of reference satisfactory  to the Bank to evaluate the
qualitative and quantitative impact of such Sector Action Plan and
its  organizational  and   financial   impact  on  the  Borrower's
education and training sector; (ii) furnish to the Bank for review
and comments the results  and  recommendations  of such study; and
(iii) based on such review,  take all necessary measures to adjust
its policy in its education and training sector.
     Section  4.03.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
December  31,  1990,   prepare   a   preventive  maintenance  plan
satisfactory to the Bank for  all MEN schools; and (b) thereafter,
take all necessary  action  to  ensure  that  all  MEN schools are
adequately maintained.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministere du Plan
         7 Place Ali Zouaoui
         Tunis
         Republic of Tunisia
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              MIPLAN                           93415117
              Tunis
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties  hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  6
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                   By /s/ Abdelaziz Hamzaoui
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Kemal Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             57,600,000        65%
     under Part A.1
     of the Project
(2)  Equipment, furni-       10,600,000        100% of foreign
     ture and vehicles                         expenditures for
     under Parts A.1                           directly imported
     to A.3 and A.5                            items and 80% of
     of the Project                            local expendi-
                                               tures for items
                                               procured locally
(3)  Books and educa-         4,300,000        100% of foreign
     tional materials                          expenditures for
     under Part A.4                            directly imported
     of the Project                            items and 80% of
                                               local expendi-
                                               tures for items
                                               procured locally
(4)  Experts' services        1,700,000        100%
     and fellowships
     under Part A.2
     of the Project
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Civil works              2,500,000        65%
     under Part B.2
     of the Project
Page  7
(6)  Equipment under          9,100,000        100% of foreign
     Part B.3 of                               expenditures for
     the Project                               directly imported
                                               items and 80% of
                                               local expendi-
                                               tures for items
                                               procured locally
(7)  Experts' services        1,100,000        100%
     under Parts B.1
     and B.3 of the
     Project
(8)  Unallocated              8,100,000
                             __________
     TOTAL                   95,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement except that withdrawals, in an
aggregate amount not exceeding  the  equivalent of $4,000,000, may
be made in respect of  Categories  (1)  and (7) on account of pay-
ments made for expenditures before  that date but after January 1,
1989.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the  Project  is  to  assist the Borrower in
carrying out a reform of its  education and training sector as set
forth in its Education and Training Sector Action Plan.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Education Sector
1.   Execution of a construction program:
     (a)  carrying out rehabilitation works in about 1,600 primary
schools and about 300 secondary schools;
     (b)  construction of and equipment  for about 800 canteens in
existing schools; and
     (c)  construction of and equipment  for about 130 upper basic
education  schools  corresponding  to  the  third  cycle  of basic
education.
2.   Strengthening MEN  by  the  provision  of  fellowships and of
technical assistance for:
     (a)  the establishment of  a  curriculum  development unit in
the Directorate of Programs;
     (b)  the establishment of  a  publishing  and editing unit in
the Directorate of Programs;
Page  8
     (c)  the establishment of  a  department  responsible for all
teacher training activities;
     (d)  the  improvement  of  examinations  preparation  and the
development of data banks of test questions;
     (e)  the development  of  training  programs  for educational
administrators such as inspectors  and  school principals, and the
organization of seminars in educational management;
     (f)  the  development  of  a   system   in  the  Division  of
Construction and Equipment  of  a  preventive maintenance plan for
all MEN schools, and the  organization of seminars for central and
regional MEN staff in preventive maintenance;
     (g)  the carrying out of  studies  on specific topics such as
remedial instruction and  the  production of educational materials
within the Borrower's territory; and
     (h)  the carrying out of a study to evaluate the qualitative,
quantitative, organizational and financial impact of the Education
and Training Sector Action Plan.
3.   Provision of equipment and  spare parts for MEN's maintenance
center and of computers for  MEN's  secondary schools and of about
46  vehicles  for  the  regional  services  of  MEN's  pedagogical
inspection.
4.   Provision of books and educational materials to schools based
on pedagogical improvement plans submitted by the schools to MEN.
5.   Development of an  extensive  program for in-service training
of teachers and provision of materials and equipment therefor.
Part B:   Vocational Training Sector
1.   Carrying out of Sub-projects  for the creation or transforma-
tion of  existing  vocational  training  institutions  into sector
specific training  and  enterprise  assistance  centers adequately
organized to meet the needs of specific industries and services to
be managed by OFPE.
2.   Carrying out rehabilitation  and  construction  works on such
sectoral vocational training and enterprise assistance centers.
3.   Provision of training  equipment  and technical assistance to
such  sectoral  vocational   training  and  enterprise  assistance
centers.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
     beginning December 15, 1994
     through December 15, 2005                   3,960,000
On June 15, 2006                                 3,920,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  9
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed as percentage per
                                         annum) applicable  to the
                                         Loan on  the  day of pre-
                                         payment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                        0.65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.88
     more than fifteen years
     before maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To  the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  equipment  and
educational materials shall be  grouped  in bid packages estimated
to be attractive to suppliers.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Republic of
Tunisia may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works and  furniture  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with the Borrower's applicable procedures, provided,
however, that: (i) no preference  shall be granted for purposes of
bid comparison to any group of  bidders; (ii) all bidders shall be
treated equally in terms of the requirements of furnishing bid and
performance securities; and (iii) bids shall be opened in public.
2.   Sundry items estimated to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
Page  10
equivalent of $2,000,000 may  be  procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison  of  price quotations solicited from at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.   Books estimated in the  aggregate  to  cost the equivalent of
$2,800,000 may be procured  under  contracts to be negotiated with
publishers.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to  each  contract  for  goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $350,000  or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  Borrower  in reforming its education
and training sector, the  Borrower shall employ education, manage-
ment and construction consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions  of  employment  shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants  shall  be  selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(7) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
Page  11
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $4,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special  Account for eligible expenditures.
                All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Bank
                from  the  Loan   Account   under  the  respective
                eligible Categories, and in the respective equiva-
                lent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
                documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
Page  12
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                   Pedagogical Improvement Plans
I.   Each  pedagogical  improvement  plan  submitted  to  MEN  for
appraisal shall include:
     1.   a description of the actions to be carried out; and
     2.   a list of books  and educational materials necessary for
          the carrying out of such actions.
II.  In appraising pedagogical  improvement  plans, MEN shall give
priority to:
     1.   pedagogical  improvement  plans   submitted  by  schools
          located in under privileged areas;
     2.   pedagogical  improvement  plans   submitted  by  schools
          corresponding to the basic education level. Such schools
          shall be permitted to use up to two-thirds of the amount
          allocated to Category (3) in  the table in Schedule 1 to
          this Agreement; and
     3.   pedagogical   improvement    plans    establishing   the
          availability of a contribution to the cost involved from
          individuals or organizations other than MEN.
                            SCHEDULE 7
               Procedures for Appraisal and Approval
                          of Sub-projects
I.   Procedures for Appraisal of Sub-projects
1.   The identification and appraisal of Sub-projects shall be the
Page  13
responsibility of OFPE.
2.   Each appraisal  of  a  Sub-project  shall  consist  of: (i) a
training needs assessment of the concerned sector (in quantitative
and  qualitative  terms)  and   a   survey  of  existing  training
possibilities  in   the   vocational   training   system;  (ii)  a
description of the various  tasks  of the proposed sector training
center and its  pedagogical  organization;  (iii) a description of
the training programs proposed  and the combination of theoretical
teaching and  practical  training;  and  (iv)  an  analysis of the
investment costs and recurrent costs.
3.   Each  appraisal  of  a   Sub-project  shall  establish  that:
(i) a training  agreement  (Accord  Cadre)  with specific industry
associations, specifying the modalities of collaboration with OFPE
and the contribution to the  cost of training, has been concluded;
(ii) a training plan for instructors has been developed; and (iii)
a program for the transfer  of  technology through the services of
experts and specialized  institutions  has  been prepared to start
the activities necessary for the carrying out of the Sub-project.
II.  Approval of Sub-projects
1.   Sub-project applications shall be prepared by OFPE.
2.   When presenting a Sub-project to  the Bank for approval, OFPE
shall furnish to the  Bank  an application, including the elements
described in paragraphs I.2 and  3  above and a description of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan, and such  other  information  as  the  Bank shall reasonably
request.
