Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
L). 2-3S~o - c
Rhmt No. P-3609-EGT
REPORT AND RECIKENDATIION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECNSTUCTOAND DEVELOPHEWJ.
TO TE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALET TO US$24 MILLION
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OP E
FOR A
ROAD MAnTEANCE PROJECT
Jame 9, 1983
1Th  cI  ins a meiceed dIuist h. sa may be mu by reed1eUs mnly in the pef.mace of
their oUiel dude. Its eontsd my .a gdihibe be ibdesd w We  Blc a_heilIes.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982           May 1983
Currency Unit               Egyptian Pound (LE)           LE
Official Foreign            USg 1 -  LE 0.70             0.70
Exchange Rate             LE  1 -  USt 1.43            1.43
Rate for vomercial          US$ 1 =  LE  0.84            0.84
Bank Transactions         LE  1 -  US$ 1.20            1.20
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ER      -      Egyptian Railways
NTS     -      National Transport Study
RBA    -       Roads and Bridges Authority
TPA     -     Transport Planning Authority
USAID   -      United States Agency for
International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:            US$24 million equivalent, including capitalized front
end fee
Terms;             20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Project            The project would support the Government's efforts to
Deecription:      improve the roads subsector by emphasizing the
maintenance of existing roads. It would consist of a
two-year road maintenance program, the upgrading of
the training program of the Roads and Bridges
Authority (RBA), and improvements in traffic safety
and control. RBA's institutional capability would
also be strengthened through improved planning and
staff training. The project would lead to savings in
vehicle operating and road rehabilitation costs.
There are risks associated with possible delays in
equipment supply and with RBA's ability to implement
the expanded road maintenance program on schedule,
but these risks are considered acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estlmated
Local        F,reign        Total
Road Maintenance                     1.6          14.4          16.0
Training                             0.6           3.3           3.9
Traffic Safety & Control             0.3           2.6           2.9
Uase Costs                           2.5          20.3          22.8
Physical Contingencies               0.1           1.4           1.5
Price Contingencies                  0.1           2.2           2.3
total Project CoSt                   2.7          23.9          26.6
Front End Fee                         -            0.1           0.1
total Financing Required             2.7          24.0          26.7
F'Inanei  Plan:                          Iccal        Fore1p          Total
Bank                                  -           24.0          24.0
Government                           2.7            -            2.7
total                                2.7          24.0          26.7
Estimated
Dsbu~r-sements. 
FY     84        85         86         87
-----USt Milli"n               -
Annual                        0.6       14.9        4.5        4.0
Cumulative                    0.6       15.5       20.0       24.0
Rate of Return: 40 - 100 percent.
Staff ~praisal Report: No. 3330-EGT of June 9, 1983
3' ~t of duties andtaxes



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR REODNSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND REODMHENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$24 million to help
finance a Road Maintenance Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecMBO-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. This section updates the economic situation and outlook
discussed in that report; revised country data sheets and macroeconomic
accounts are presented in Annex I. An economic mission visited Egypt in
January 1983, and its report is currently being prepared.
Background
3.       The last ten years have been a period of rapid growth for the
Egyptian economy. Following an extended period of inward-looking and
centralized economic policies, the Government in 1974 announced a new "Open
Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. Parallel to the changes in economic strategy, there was
progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic
expansion and greater prosperity.
4.       Througlout the second half of the 1970s, external circumstances
as well as domestic developments were on the whole favorable to the
economy. The emergence of a strong petroleum sector with a substantial
exportable surplus, large flows of workers' remittances, the successful
reopening of the Suez Canal and the growth of the tourism industry,
complemented by substantial long-term capital inflows, allowed Egypt to
reduce considerably the stringent resource shortages of the early 1970s.
Egypt entered the 1980. with a much stionger resource base; but the needs of
the rapidly growing population remain immense. At present, 43 million
people have only about 39.000 km2 of usable land. While Egypt's
population has doubled in the last three decades, the cultivated area has
increased by less than 5%. Moreover, the physical and social infrastructure
1/ This section is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the El
Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project (P-3528-EGT) dated April 20, 1983.



-2-
of the country has suffered from long years of insufficient investment,
inadequate maintenance and the effects of war. Low productivity and
underemployment affect many parts of the economy and the consumption
capacity of the poor has improved marginally. Maintaining rapid growth will
require sustained efforts aimed at overcoming these constraints. In
particular, continued progress depends crucially on; (i) the mobilization of
large national and foreign resources to finance high levels of investment;
(ii) substantial increases in the productivitv of capital and labor based on
institutional reforms and effective investment planning; and (iii) an
equitable distribution of the sacrifices and benefits associated with
economic growth.
5.       In October of 1981, the ne- Government expressed its firm intention
to accord top priority to economic issues. The outward-looking "Open Door"
strategy favorable to foreign investment will be maintained. The process of
liberalization is to be complemented, however, by increased emphasis on
population and human resource planning, the Tationalization of consumption
with a view to ensuring greater social equity, and a more comprehensive
process of investment planning designed to economize resources and channel a
greater share of investment into the productive sectors in order to foster
increased productivity and employment.
Recent Economic Developments
6.       Recent economic trends may be separated into two successive phases
with quite different characteristics: (i) a period of unprecedented resource
growth starting in 1975 and peaking in 1980, and (ii) starting in the sumner
of 1981, a period of re-emerging resource shLrtages triggered by the decline
in oil prices and an apparent slowdown in workers' remittances.
7.       From 1975 to 1980 inclusive, overall G-DP growth averaged about 10%
in constant (1980/81) prices. 1/ This very high growth rate reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector, and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade, finance and Suez Canal traffic. Agricultural growth
remained very modest at around 2.2%. Egypt's severe land constraint makes
rapid agricultural growth a very difficult task.
8.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,OOC
barrels per day (b/d)(30 million tons a year 2/), compared to 220,000 bId in
1975, with the Egyptian share of exports (net of pertner companies' shares)
reaching 240,000 b/d by the end of 1980. This very rapid growth in output
coincided with sharp rises in spot prices on the world market, leading to
large increases in ex-ort revenues, from Uj$289 million in 1975 to
USt4.4 billion in 1980/81.
9.       During the same period, workers' remittances also grew at unprece-
dented rates, reaching USt2.7 billion in 1980, compared to US$366 million in
1/ In 1980 the Government of Egypt changed its fiscal year from January-
December to July-June, with a consequent change in data series.
2/ One ton is equivalent to 7.2 barrels.



-3-
1975. Moreover, Suez Canal earnings and tourism revenues reached US$663
million and US$775 million respectively, compared to US$85 million and US$322
million in 1975. As a result, and despite large increases in import¶ (US$8.1
billion in 1980 compared to US$4.6 billion in 1975), the current account
deficit narrowed to less than 7.4Z of GDP (USS1.6 billion) in 1980, compared
to 18.8% in 1975.
13.      While the balance of payments improved steadily during this period,
the fiscal situation remained relatively more precarious and showed greater
fluctuations. The overall public sector resource gap which was 29% of GrP in
1975, narrowed to 17% in 1977, widened to 27% in 1979, before declining again
to 18% in 1980/81. At the same time, inflation emerged as a principal policy
concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a fixed price economy, and
resource allocation and investment decisions were centrally determined.
Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low, so that while relative
prices may have been out of line %ith world prices, price rigidity Aid not
create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The situation has sinre changed
radically.  The opening of the economy coincided with  n acceleration in
world inflation. At the same time, labor migration and the rapid expansion
of the economy led to supply problems in several key sectors, such as
construction and related activities, and agricultu:e. Effective demand,
especially for consumer goods, also rose sharply following the income gains
that resulted from the growth of tourism, remittances and other receipts. All
these factors have exerted sharp upward pressure on domestic prices. In a
country unaccustomed to inflation and flexible prices, and where there are no
easily functioning mechanisms for cost-of-living adjustments in wages and
salaries, the required price changes appeared large and inequitable, given the
substantial effect they would have on lower income groups. In the
uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did, in fact, surge
upward. However, in the controlled sector, which still dominates the economy,
although some small price increases were allowed for, major adjustments could
not be achieved. Therefore, the gap between world prices and domestic selling
prices of key traded goods continuously increased, leading to large implicit
and explicit subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of
relative prices and incentives.
II.      Despite the persistence of structural problems relating to income
distribution and resource allocation, the growth achieved by the economy in
the 1975-1980 period was very impressive- To a large extent, however, it
was dependent on factors over which Egypt does not hcve full or even
partial control. In the sunmmer of 1981 some of the key variables that had
shown steady growth since 1975 suddenly began to reverse. First, oil prices
started to decline. The premium Suez Blend Crude declined frovm the
US$40/barrel peak reached in the spring of 1981 to around US$32 by March 1982
and US$27 in eaLiy 1983. The heavier crudes also declined in price: compared
to fiscal year 1980/81, the average barrel exported showed a 10.5% decline in
value for fiscal year 1981/82. Almost simultaneously with the decline in oil
export prices, workers' remittances decreased below the levels achieved in
1980/81. Finally Suez Canal revenues, that had been expected to increase
substantially after the enlargement of the Canal, failed to show significant



- 4 -
growth, reflecting excess supply conditions on the international oil market as
well as the effect of the worldwide recession on the volume of trade.
12.      These developments have led to a deterioration of the balance of
payments, a widening of the public sector resource gap and an accelerating
pace of monetary expansion. The impact of the export shortfall on the current
account defi--.t was to some extent contained because of the decline in prices
for food imports, the reduction in non-food imports through tighter import
restrictions and a cutback in investment spending. Nevertheless, the current
account deficit widened from US$2.3 billion in 1980/Bl to US$3.3 billion in
1981/82.- The bulk of this deficit was covered by medium and long-term capital
inflows, although the deterioration in the overall balance haa required some
recourse to short-term borrowing. Similar difficulties are affecting the
fiscal situation. The overall public sector resource gap widened to 23%
of GDP in 1981/82 (from 18% in 1980/81). As a result, there has been a large
increase in domestic bank financing of the budget, from about LE 450 million
in 1980/81 to about LE 2.2 billion in 1981/82. Accompanied by rapid expansion
of credit to the private sector, this financinr has led to a marked
acceleration in monetary growth, with money supply (excluding foreign currency
deposits) increasing at a rate close to 40% per annum, thus creating
additional inflationary pressures. So far, the primary policy response to the
deteriorating trend has been a tightening of imports and credit, and a
slowdown ill investment spending. Largely because of these short-term
measures, the deteriorating trend in the balance of payments has stabilized,
and the current account deficit is expected to be somewhat lower in FY82/83
than in the preceding year. The budget deficit is, however, expected to
remain large at about 20% of GDP. Moreover, the tight credit and import
controls are now beginning to impact on the pace of economic activity and
growth.
13.      While the above situation is causing concern and requires immediate
policy measures, to some extent its source can be found in the recession
affecting the world economy.  The Egyptian economy was also affected by
internal and external political events that increased the degree of
uncertainty and slowed down the flow of remittances and private capital
inflows. With the full recovery of the Sinai completed in April 1982 and the
consolidation of the internal political climate, and given adequate incentive
and exchange rate policies, conditions could again be favorable for larger
remittances, tourism revenues and an expansion of foreign private investment.
This, together with some improvement in Suez Canal traific, could help
strengthen the balance of payments and Government finances.  Nonetheless,
while such an improvement is possible, the long-run structural problems remain
a major challenge which the Government needs to address if the country is to
sustain rapid economic growth and achieve greater well being for its people.
Development Potential and Constraints
14.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled population, an agricultural potential not yet fully developed, varied



raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key geographical
location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however, than during
the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for foreign savings
will become more pressing as foreign aid and net factor income decline in
relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of areas, including
physicaL infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has been slowed down
by administrative inefficiency, inadequate financial resources and weakness
in national coordination and sector programming. Managerial effectiveness
in public enterprises and financial incentives for production are often
inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together with labir
emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and technical
skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a non-technical bias
and their quality needs to be upgraded.
15.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been based
on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture, industry
and services where the bulk of the labor force is employed. For example, the
Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about 22% of GDP but
o-' It of total employment. While tourism and remittances directly touch the
lives of a much greater number of people, they cannot provide a solid basis
for employment expansion and technological development. Moreover, the
long-term real growth potential for receipts from petroleum, Suez and
remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies in the necessity of
channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues derived from these
sources into productive investment in agriculture, industry and social
infrastructure in order to lay the foundations for self-sustaining growth and
employment expansion in the domestic economy.
16.      /nother key issue is population.  At an estimated 43 million, Egypt's
population is already very large for its limited usable land area, with an
average density exceeding 1100 per km2, higher than that of Bangladesh or
Indonesia. Recent census results show that population has continued to grow
rapidly, adding over one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of
this increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area. This continues to
create pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates
the employment problem in the longer run. Although the Government has placed
a renewed emphasis on the importance of the population preblem, it will take
considerable time to develop and implement measures and for significant
results to be achieved.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although ineouality and the incidence of absolute
poverty are no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to selious distortions.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural con-
straints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to: (i) increase the



-6-
efficiency of the administration through organizational and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary struLtures; (ii) increase
real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of resoairces and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy, including appropriate management of incentives and real efEective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to '-.grade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify erforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There in an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities
and the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members
of the ConsultatLve Group for Egypt. Much work remains to be done on trying
to formulate practical policy packages that would help Egypt overcome these
constraints in a gradual yet effective manner. Particular consideration is
being given by the Government and the Bank to the social implications of
alternative strategies in the full realization that progress can only last
if it ensures broad based participation in the process of economic growth.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military mediumr  and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed in 1982/83 is estimated at about US$15.5 billion (572 of GDP).
bilateral loans comprised about 61% of the debt outstanding while the shares
of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit wete about 22% and 10%,
respectively, with the remainder being held by financial institutions.  Major
creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization for the Development of Egypt,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 7% of the total disbursed debt. Despite the
sharp increase in the level of external debt during the last decade--from
US$2.2 billion at end-1973 to the estimated UStl5.5 billion in 1982/83--the
debt service ratio declined from 33% in 1973 to 15% in 1979 and rose to 21% in
1981/82.
20.      External financing requirements are likely to remain sizeable in the
medium term given Egypt's immense development needs and the more moderate
growth of foreign exchange earnings projected. At the same time, in view of
the adverse global aid outlook, Egypt may have to rely more on conventional
finance than in the past and at significantly higher interest rates. As a
result, the debt service ratio is projected to rise over the next five years
but should remain manageable in the 20-25% range. Over the longer term, the
balance of payments and debt servicing capacity will depend crucially on
domestic trade and export promotion policies and on developments in the oil
sector. With continued exploitation of its national resources and improved
economic management, Egypt should be able to maintain its creditworthiness
throughout the period.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-seventh lending
operation to Egypt and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to
US$2,892.5 million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted the
development of agriculture, industry, power and energy, wat-; supply, family
planning, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1983
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.      In assisting Egypt's development, the Bank has followed a scrategy
which involves entry into a wide spectrum of sectors in order to
provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources but,
equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral agencies,
and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a coherent
framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle the
substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance, not only for sound execution of specific projects but for
developing the domestic institutional capability to articulate and implement
future policies and investment programs. The Bank's deliberate multisectoral
intervention has been differentiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these
issues and implement the programs.
23.      Industry illustrates the nacure and scope of the Bank's role.
Efforts under Bank financed projects have gone beyond the immediate objective
of improving capacity utilization (two imports projects) and increasing
production capacity and supply of essential commodities in resource-based
industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement, steel and fertilizer projects).
The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing policy and
structural improvements. Towards this end, tne Bank has financed six
subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and paper, food
processing, metals, and engineering industries, in order to assist the
Government in formulating a package of policy and investment prcposals which
are embodied in our projects. The Bank has also channeled considerable
financial assistance to Egypt's private sector through financial
intermediaries, a growing proportion of which is reaching small-scale
industrial enterprises. To complement these effor-s the Bank is assistir.g the
Government in carrying out a technical assistance program for small- and
medium-scale industries. The Bank has also assisted the Government in a
comprehensive study of the construction/contracting industry, one of the major
bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, and is supporting the Government's
efforts in carrying out its recommendations, which include extensive policy
and institutional reforms. Finally, the Bank is discussing with the
Government a recently completed study of Trade Strategy and Investment
I/ This section is substantially the same as the corresponding part of the
President's Report for the El Dikheila Reinforcing Bar Project
(P-3528-EGT), dated April 20, 1983.



- 8 -
Planning which focuses on the sectoral allocation and timing of Egypt's
investment program in the context of a viable foreign trade strategy.
24.      The illtustrative sketch provided above is representative of the
multifaceted approach that the Bank has adopted in varying degrees in the
entire spectrum of the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not
only with the Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as Chairman of the
Consultative Group. Projects being prepared for future lending will follow
this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in vocational training,
power and gas development, urban development, transportation, water supply,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance and industry.
25.      Bank and IDA disbursements in FY82 represented 5% of Egypt's medium-
and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of total external debt
outstanding and disbursed were about 4% and 3%, respectively, as of June 30,
1982. In FY85, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excLuding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0% and
3.1%, respectively. It is estimated that in FY85, debt service payments due
to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6% and 0.2%, respectively, of
service payments due on Egypt's external debt. Reflecting the increased level
of commitments and delays in the initiation of some of the projects, loan
disbursements slowed down in FY82. (In FY82 the disbursement percentage rate
was 16.5%; the EMENA Regional average was 19.3%.) The Egyptian Government has
recently placed a high priority on improving overall project implementation
and in introducing improved monitoring practices. As project execution
accelerates, loan disbursements should improve gradually.
26.      IFC has a dual investment strategy in Egypt: first, to help the
Government put together and fund large projects in the joint venture sector,
the requirements of which exceed the financial resources of the private
sector; and second, to help smaller, fully private sector projects, for which
all the capital required cannot be raised locally. Majority ownership in the
larger joint venture companies is primarily held by public sector entities,
aLthough the companies financed operate on a strict commercial basis within
the framework of Law 43. Private shareholders are incorporated into these
projects to the greatest extent possible. In terms of sectoral emphasis, IFC
investment strategy has emphasized the construction and agribusiness sectors,
consistent with the priorities of the Government's development program. IFC
also has an active advisory function in the structuring of the capital
market. IFC's equity participations and lending commitments for projects in
Egypt as of March 31, 1983 totalled about US$86 million and include: a
ceramics project, a ready-made garment project, a project for an agricultural
complex primarily for sugar beet, a poultry project, a fish farming project, a
building material project, and a tourism project. IFC is discussing several
other private sector and joint venture projects. A summary of IFC operations
in Egypt is given in Annex II.



- 9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics
27.      Egypt's transport aetwork is concentrated in the Nile Delta and along
its narrow valley where the bulk of its population and economic activity are
found. Rail, road, inland water and air transport systems provide
complemenrary services along the 1000 km. long Alexandria-Cairo-Aswan corridor
and link the canal cities of Suez, Ismailia and Port Said wit71 Cairo and the
Nile Delta. A relatively sparse ruad network runs through the Western
Desert. The ports at Alexandria, Port Said and Suez, several smaller ports,
oil and gas pipelines between Suez and the Mediterranean, and the Suez Canal
comprise the remainder of Egypt's transport system- While the geographical
coverage of the transport network is currently adequate to serve the major
regions of the country, transport services are seriously deficient (para-
30). Furthermore, a sustained growth in traffic, averaging 12Z annually since
1975, and expected to continue at this level, will soon outstrip current
capacity.
Institutional Framework
28.      Responsibility for the transport sector is currently divided among
several central mimistries and the Governorates. The Ministry of Transport,
Commnaications and Shipping is responsible for primary and secondary roads,
inland waterways, ports and shipping, and railways; the respective
Governorates for tertiary roads; the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation
for airports and aviation; and the Ministry of Petroleum for pipelines. In
addition, the Ministry of Development, Housing and Land Reclamation constructs
transport infrastructure, and the Ministry of Industry builds transport
facilities associated with its investmerts; the relevant in-line ministries
operate and maintain them after they arc built. Overall coordination of the
sector is the responsib;!ity of the Transport Planning Authority (TPA) in the
Ministry of Transport.
Transport Constraints and Policies
29.       Until the early 1970s the development of the transport sector was
characterizeci by little or no planning of investments and operations.
Cor.r.CLned with this problem and with the lack of coordination among the
various transport-related ministries, the Government took a significA_t step
in 1973 by creating TPA and giving it primary responsibility for coordinating
the planning and policy making activities in the sector.
30.      In 1976 the Government took further action to strengthen the planning
process by commissioning a National Transport Study (NTS' under the
Bank-financed Second Railways Project (Loan 1098-ECT). The NTS, completed in
1981, concluded that there are several constraints in the sector which are
impinging upon economic activity. Key among these is the inadequate level of
investment in the transport sector in preceding years which has left the



- 10 -
system ill-equipped to meet the demand. Rail services are seriously deficient
due primarily to lack of overall maintenance and shortages of serviceable
locomotives and rolling stock; inland water transport is handicapped by an
aged barge fleet operating to capacity; port capacity is insufficient; and
maintenance of roads is inadequate. In addition, because of capacity
constraints in rail and water transport., the road system has had to
accommodate the bulk of the increased traffic. Earlier transport plans have
given insufficient attention to maintenance, operational, and training needs,
and have not been supported by the necessary technical and feasibility
studies. Low civil service salaries and unrewarding caree- opportunities have
resulted in a shortage of skilled and qualified staff. Tariffs are low and in
many cases do not cover operating costs, and domestic fuel prices are below
economic prices (measured as the price at which petroleum products could be
exported). Resulting operating deficits further handicap some agencies'
abilities to expand and modernize and provide quality service.
31.      The Government recognizes these problems and is taking several
measures to correct the situation. With the assistance of the Bank (para. 34)
and other external financing sources, the process of revitalizing the
railways, increasing port capacity, and rehabilitating and expanding the Suez
Canal has already begun, but much more remains to be done. Scme tariff
increases have been introduced, for example in the railways, and others are
being considered. In recent years the Government has gradually raised the
domestic price for premium gasoline, and at the current level of LE 0.15 per
liter it now approximates the economic price (based on February 1983 prices of
US$27.5fbarrel for Egyptian crude). However, the gas oil price at LE 0.03 per
liter is well below its economic price of about LE 0.18 per liter. The total
economic subsidy on gas oil was estimated at about LE 255,000 in 1979. The
Government intends to reduce and eventually stabilize the level of the
implicit economic subsidy to transport users. But the price distortions which
result from the different subsidies prevailing throughout the economy make the
achievement of this goal a very difficult task.
32.      The NTS also makes a set of recommendations for physical improvements
and policy changes to rationalize the development of the transport sector.
These include: (i) measures to develop institutional capability for
comprehensive transport planning on a continuous basis; (ii) the formulation
of transport and related pricing policies; and based on these, (iii) a
transport development strategy to the year 2000 and a detailed transport
development plan through 1987.
33.      The Government has largely incorporated the five year transport plan
recommended by the NTS into the 1983-87 National Development Plan. It has
allocated a substantial amount - LE 1.4 billion - for the transport sector, an
increase of about 80Z over the amount allocated in the 1978-82 Plan. The Plan
accords priority to improving the maintenance of the existing transportation
network and thereby improving its utilization; increasing the capacities of
the Suez Canal, the Sumed pipeline and the ports to better realize the foreign
exchange earnings potential of the sector; and improving the balance between
transport modes by emphasizing rail and river transportation.



Bank Lending in the Sector
34.      This eighth Bank/IDA lending operation in the transport sector would
bring total assistance Co the sector to USS474.5 million. The first operation
was a USt56.5 million loan made in 1959 for expansion of the Suez Canal. A
second loan of US$50 million was made in 1974 to rehabilitate the Canal and
its facilities to enable the resumption of operations to pre-1967 levels.
Following the completion of studies financed under that project, another
US$100 million loan was made in 1978 for Canal expansion. Progress is
generally satisfactory: total canal traffic continues at levels close to
appraisal forecasts, and revenue is higher. An IDA credit of US$30 million in
1971 and a Bank loan of USS37 million in 1975 provided support to the Egyptian
Railways (ER) for its 1971-77 rehabilitation and modernization program. The
two projects have been completed but ER's operational and maintenance
situation remains problematic although some physical improvements have taken
place.  A new railway law, introduced in 1980, which gives ER much greater
autonomy than in the past, should provide a basis for its management to
improve operations. However, strong government support, both in terms of
policy action and financial help, will continue to be needed to enable ER to
achieve economic efficiency.
35.      The Bank has also supported the rehabilitation and expansion of
Alexandria Port with a USt45 million loan in 1976 and the construction of a
new port at El Dikheiln with a US9132 million loan in 1982. Important
institution building features of the Alexandria Port Project have been
instrumental in strengthening the Alexandria Port Authority. More generally
the Bank's dialogue witn the Government has led to the formulation of a
National Port Development Strategy aimed at rationalizing the future expansion
of Egypt's port capacity. In addition to projects in the transport sector,
under an urban project, transport in Greater Cairo is to be improveA through
low cost traffic engineering and management measures (including road
maintenance) and increased efficiency of the public transport system with the
help of a USt59 million loan made in 1982.
Tne Roads Subsector
36.      Egypt's 28,725 km of roads have emerged as the dominant mode of
domestic transport. According to the NTS, in 1979, for example, they carried
some three-fourths of all freight and two-thirds of all the passenger
traffic. Of the total network, about 15,000 km are paved and some 5,400 km
are classified as main roads. While the network is sufficiently extensive to
serve most of the country, it is not suited to modern traffic. In the Nile
Valley and the Delta it has, for the most part, evolved from the gradual
upgrading of roads which were not originally designed for modern high-speed
vehicles. The need to preserve scarce agricultural land prevents extensive
new road construction, thus forcing traffic to ply the existing network; and
the bearing capacity of mcst of the network no longer meets current traffic
demands. About 80% of all paved roads have carriageways of 6m or less which
are too narrow for present traffic volumes.
37.      Expenditures during the period up to the mid-1970s on construction,
rehabi'litation and maintenance of the network did not match the requirements



- 12 -
of the increasing traffic. 7urthermore, within the roads subsector there has
been an overemphasis on new road construction at the expense of maintaining
and rehabilitating existing roads. As a consequence, a substantial proportion
of the road network is in poor condition. According to the NTS, only about
4oz of all roads are in good condition, the remaining 60% need repairs.
Following tne recommendations of the NTS, the Roads and Bridges Authority
(RBA) in tf_ Ministry of Transport has made concerted efforts to accelerate
maintenance and rehabilitation works. tor example, about 1,200 km of roads
were rehabilitated in the three year period ending May 1983. Similarly, some
additional equipment was purchased recently for routine road maintenance, and
related expenditures increased threefold from LE 0.5 million in 1981/82 to LE
1.5 million in 1982/83. However, an insufficient stock of equipment continues
to limit RBA's productivity.  Accrrdingly, RBA's equipment needs for road
maintenance are to be met in the proposed project. RBA's arrangements to
maintain its equipment art adequate.
38.      According to RBA estimates, the motor vehicle fleet has been growing
at an average of about 17% annually between 1972 and 1981. There are about 22
vehicles per 1000 people which is low compared to countries at a similar stage
of development, but high relative to the road network. Heavy vehicles such as
buses and trucks now constitute about 43 percent of the traffic on main
roads. This high growth in traffic has resulted in excessive wear of road
surfaces and further accelerated their deterioration.
39.      Road freight transport is not regulated, and, except for normal
registration and licensing, there are no restrictions on entry into the
industry, nor on the specifications of vehicles aad their operations. Vehicle
load regulations exist but are seldom enforced. An axle load survey carried
out in 1981 by RBA concludea that about 172 of all axles exceed the legal
limit, causing 80% of all damage to the roads. With equipment to be provided
under the proposed project (para. 51) RBA will carry out a two-year nationwide
axle weighing program to determine loading trends and control overloading.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this survey would start in
July 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03). The results would provide a basis
for possible revisions in road design standards, vehicle standards, axle load
regulations and enforcement measures.
40.      Traffic safety is poor in Egypt, and the incidence of traffic
accidents is increasing along with associated losses of property and life. A
study on road safety conducted by RBA concluded that there are major
deficiencies in road and bridges signalling and marking. RBA produces its own
road signs in an outdated workshop, with an output of only about 50 signs a
day which are of poor quality. Measures to substantially improve traffic
safety are included in the proposed project (para. 51).
Organization, Administration and Training
41.      RBA is responsible for the main and secondary road network while the
Governorates are responsible for the tertiary roads. Lacking technical staff,
the Governorates often turn to RBA for assistance. RBA's main administrative
departments are located in Cairo. It has eight regional offices to which the



- 13 -
engineering, dezign, and construction supervision responsibilities are
delegated, with quality control exercised by the central office. Following
the recommendations of the YTS, R3A is being reorganized to delineate
'planning and monitoring' functions from 'executive' functions. The executive
department would be responsible for road maintenance and rehabilitation works,
thus strengthening the ioruz; on this aspect of RBA's activities. In addition,
consultancs to be hired by RBA to heLp evaluate the maintenance program would
also review its organizational framework and recommend any further
improvements which might be necessarv.
42.      Design standards for all roads in Egypt are set by RBA, and these are
generally satisfactory. The engineering is carried out by one of three
agencies, RRA, the Ministry of Development, Housing and I.and Reclamation, or
the Ministry of Industry, depending on which of these has responsibility for
the project. Road construction works are contracted on the basis of
competitive bidding among prequalified coctractors registered with RBA_ RBA
also carries out periodic maintenance by contract; the routine maintenance is
carried out by a'orce account. The Government's construction/contracting
industry study, completed in 1981, identified several weaknesses in the
sector, including the road construction subsector, which are impeding growth
and limiting produ:ctivity. The study includes recommendations to address
these issues and Bank assistance tor a proposed construction sector project is
being discussed with the Goverrnment.
43.      A critical problem facing RBA is an acute shortage of skilled staff.
Its 7,200 employees consist of a small core of experienced and competent
perconnel, and a Large pool of junicr inexperienced staff.  As in the case of
other government agencies, the main causes of these shortages are low salaries
and limited career opportunities. RBA recognizes this problem and has
successfully introduced an incentive scheme to attract and retain staff. In
addition, RBA has started hiring more women engineers and is revising
regulations to further encourage this trend. Training for RBA, Governorates
and public contractors is provided at RBA's training center on Cairo's
outskirts. Although a total of 250 staff were trained in 1982, the training
program and facilities need to be updated. In addition, with the increase in
maintenance and rehabilitation activities, more staff will have to be
trained. Comprehensive upgrading of the training program and facilities is,
therefore, included in the proposed project (para. 50).
PLannii!g and Finance
44.      In the past, TPA has undertaken highway planning on RBA's behalf.  In
view of the increase in the planning Load, RBA now carries out detailed road
planning and data collection itself within the framework set by TPA and the
recommendations of th2 NTS. One major undertaking is the setting up of a
program for continuous traffic counting to provide RBA with data for purposes
of planning maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction programs.
Equipment needs for this program would be met under the proposed project
(para. 51). For the short term, based on the recommendations of the NTS, RBA
has prepared a road maintenance and rehabilitation program, and has formulated



- 14 -
a five year plan which is included in the 1983-87 National Plan. During the
period, RBA plans to undertake: (i) rehabilitation and widening of about 2000
km of main roads; (ii) new construction and paving of about 1000 km of main
roads (iii) construction of 265 km of four-lane highways; and (iv)
construction of bridges across the Nile and other waterways.
45.      Consistent with f,overnment policy, revenues from tay s and duties
levied for road transport revert to the generai budget. Road works are
financed through jais budget and through a special tax on gasoline, 30% of
which is directly transferred to RBA and the remainder to the Governorates.
The annual expenlitures on roads amount to only a small proportion of the
total revenues from road users. Budgetary allocations for RBA have been
increased considerably since 1979 but furtter increases are needed. Although
maintenance expenditures were increased threefold in the previous year, at
US$137 per km per year in 1982 they are still low relative to the needs.
Accordingly, further substantial increases are planned for the 1984/85 -
1985/86 period under the proposed project. In addition, a sum of LE 100
million has been allocated for rehabilitation works in the Plan period which
is adequate to achieve RBA's target of rehabilitating about 500 km of roads
annually by 1987.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.      The project evolved from the preliminary findings of the National
Transport Study and was identified in October 1978 with the help of a Bank
mission. RBA prepared the project with the assistance of a USAID-funded
research program undertaken jointly by the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Cairo University. Appraisal took place in November 1980.
Subsequently, the project was held in abeyance pending discussions with the
Government on the lending terms. Following a clarification of the question in
January 1983, an updating mission visited Egypt in February 1983.
Negotiations took place between May 11-17, 1983. The Government was
represented by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary, Ministry of
Investment and International Cooperation. A staff appraisal report entitled
"A Road Maintenance Project" (No.3330-EGT) dated June 9, 1983 is being
distributed separately. The main features of the project are summarized in
the Loan and Proiect Summary and in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
47-      The project would support the Government's efforts to improve road
maintenance and strergthen the institutional capability of RBA through
improved planning and training.  In addition, the project would initiate a
program to improve road safety and traffic control. It would consist of:
- a two-year program of routine maintenance of the road network including
the provision of equipment, spare parts and technical assistance;



- 15 
- the upgrading of RBA's training programs through the. provision of
improved infrastructure, workshop5, laboratories, training aids,
technical assistance and fellowships; and
- improvements in traffic safety and control and in RBA's planning
capabil ties.
Road Maintenance Program
48.    In April 1982, with the assistance of Cairo University, RBA completed a
study of Optimum Maintenance Policies for the Delta Paved Road Network.  RBA
then extended the conclusions of the study to the overall network, and
prepared an action program for routine maintenance of the 13,000 km of paved
roads under its jurisdiction. The program was based on a reconnaissance of
about 4,400 km of road sections and an evaluation of different maintenance
strategies. A two-year time slice of this program would be carried out under
the project. The routine maintenance would be carried out by force account by
45 operational units in RBA's regional offices. Of the 45 units, 25 would
cover roads in the Delta and the Nile Valley and 20 would cover desert roads.
Each unit would be responsible for about 290 km of roads.  Agreement was
reached that RBA would carry out the maintenance program in accordance with
annual programs including physical targets, equipment and staffing needs and
funding requirements, and that these programs would be submitted to the Bank
for review and comment prior to April 30 of each year starting in 1984.
Agreement was also reached that the staff and maintenance equipment required
to carry out the program would be made available in a timely manner (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03). The recurrent costs of the maintenance program,
estimated at LE 8.4 million in 1983 prices, would be met in full by the
Government. About 30 manmonths of technical assistance would be provided to
help evaluate performance at the end of the first year and make adjustments as
necessary in the staffing, equipment and funding for the program, and in its
organization and management.
49.    In conjunction with the road maintenance program, RBA is accelerating
road rehabilitation works to prevent further deterioration of the network.
Understandings were reached that during the project period, RBA would carry
out its current road rehabilitation plan in order to reach its target of 500
km per year by f_scal year 1986/87, and that the funds required for these
works would be met through direct budgetary allocations.
Trainin8
50.    Since 1956 RBA has offered training for its staff and staff from the
Governorates and construction companies at its training center on Cairo's
outskirts. In 1982, the center's 30 instructors trained about 250 people
including civil and mechanical engineers, assistants in various disciplines
such as laboratory and survey work, and equipment operators. The training
courses last from one to four months and some include practical training in a
production unit. Although an adequate number of staff are being trained, the
quality of the training is deficient because the facilities, programs,



- 16 -
curricula, training aids, workshops, and laboratories are outdated. To
strengthen RBA's capability to manage the expanded road maintenance and
rehabilitation programs, and to improve staff productivity and operational
efficiency, the training offered by RBA would be upgraded. With about 50
marmonths of technical assistance, RBA would identify its staff needs and
those of road construction companies, and the related training requirements,
including the improvements needed in facilities, programs, training schedules,
curricula, and instructor training. In additior., about 50 manmonths of
fellowships would be provided for instructors and RBA staff. Agreement was
reached that by June 30, 1984, RBA would submit a training program to the Bank
f or its comments and would carry out the program in accordance with a time
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Traffic Safety and Control
51.    In coordination with Cairo University, RBA has initiated an action plan
to improve traffic safety, control heavy traffic, and establish a permanent
traffic counting system to provide a better data base for purposes of
planning. A new sign workshop would be established to improve road and bridge
signalling and marking, fixed and mobile weighstations would be established to
control overloading, and a computer based data processing system would be set
up to improve traffic counting. Seminars for traffic engineers and assistants
are currently conducted at RBA's training center and would be reviewed under
the training program. Other steps being considered by the Government to
improve traffic safety include improvements in driver education programs and
revisions to traffic regulations. Agreement was reached that RBA would review
the status of the action plan regularly with the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05 (a)).
Cost Estimates and Financing
52.    The total project cost excluding taxes and duties (from which the
project is exempted) is estimated at US$26.6 miLlion equivalent, of which
US$23.9 million would be in foreign exchange. Estimates for road maintenance
equipment are based on bids received by RBA in mid-1982. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 5% for maintenance equipment and 10% for all
other components. Price contingencies for local costs have been estimated at
16% for 1983, 15% for 1984, and 14% thereafter, and for foreign costs at 8%
for 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7Z for 1985, and 6% for 1986. Consultant services
are estimated at US$11,000 per manmonth, and fellowships at US$4,000 per
manmoath (including overheads).
53.    The proposed loan of US$24.0 million would finance the foreign exchange
cost vL the project and the front end fee. The Government would finance the
Iccal cost of US$2.7 million equivalent.
Project Execution
54.    RBA would execute the project.  Equipment lists prepared by RBA have
been reviewed and approved by the Bank. With regard to the technical



- 17 -
assistance, agreement was reached that the qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of the consultants who would assist RBA with the
maintenance and training programs would be satisfactory to the Bank (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02). In addition to the annual program for road
maintenance referred to in para. 48 above, RBA would provide the Bank with
quarterly progress reports within two months of the end of each quarter, and
starting in September 1985, with an annual performance report in the previous
year's road maintenance program comparing actual progress with that planned.
The project is expected to be completed by June ?3, 1986, and the loan closing
date is June 30, 1987.
Procurement and Disbursements
55.    Contracts for all the equipment and contracts for spare parts in excess
of US$5o,000 would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Domestic preferences of 15%
or the applicable customs duty (whichever is lower) would be granted. For
purposes of standardization, spare parts may be procured from suppliers or
manufacturers of equipment for which the parts are needed. Contracts for
spare parts which cannot be grouped into packages of US$50,000 or more may be
negotiated directly or awarded on the basis of limited international tendering.
56.    The proposed loan would be disbursed over 3-1/2 years as follows:
equipment and spare parts: 100% of foreign and of local expenditures
ex-factory and 80% of local expenditures for items procured locally;
consultant services; 85%; and fellowships: 100% of foreign expenditures.
Disbursements for spare parts procured locally for purposes of standardization
would be made on the basis of statements of expenditures. RBA would maintain
separate accounts for all expenditures for which withdrawals are made on the
basis of statements of expenditures and retain all related records until one
year after the closing date. The annual audit report to be submitted to the
Bank would include a statement certifying that the statements of expenditures
and related records are in order (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02).
Accounting and Auditing
57.    In addition to the accounts pertaining to withdrawals against
statements of expenditures (para. 56), RBA would establish and maintain
separate accounts for the project to reflect its operations, resources and
expenditures. These accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audited accounts would be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
58.    In keeping with the conclusion of the NTS that, while new road
construction should have its place, priority should be accorded to the
improvement and maintenance of the existing road network, the project supports
the Government's efforts to better allocate the resources for the roads
subsector between new investments and the maintenance of existing investments.



- 18 -
Taken together, the physical and institutional improvements are expected to
yield substantial benefits to .he economy in the near future and in the longer
term.
59.    A msaintenance program is now a high priority on a large number of roads
which are rapidly deteriorating to the point where rehabilitation works would
be needed to extend th.iir useful lives. The proposed projc t would ma'.e a
substarntial contribution to such a program, with savings in vehicle operating
costs and in road rehabilitation and eventual reconstruction costs. The
principal direct beneficiaries of the project would be road users. The
benefits of the institutional strengthening cannot be quantified, but are, of
course, essential for the development of the subsector, and in addition should
demonstrate the benefits of improved planning and management to other
sectors. Further unquantifiable benefits include the increased safety of road
users, including animal-drawn certs and pedestrians.
60.    The improved road maintenance is expected to have a positive impact on
the physical environment and the new road signs and markings would help reduce
traffic accidents, thereby increasing public safety.
61.    The estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for the road links
included in the project range from about 40% to 100l. The analysis includes
the cost of the training and traffic safety components for which benefits are
not separately quantifiable. These returns are high but not unusual for this
type of maintenance work on a road network with high traffic volumes. The
first year benefit/cost ratios range from 50% to about 120%. According to the
sensitivity analyses, even assuming a two-year delay in implementation, the
ERR of the program would range from 30% to 90%.
62.    There are two potential areas of risk in the project.  The first
relates to the possibility oi? delays in the procurement of equipment and the
second to the ability of RBA to carry out the program on schedule because they
lack skilled staff. With regard to the first risk, Bank staff are working
closely with staff in RBA responsible for procuring equipment to help ensure
the timely initiation of the bidding process. The second risk would be offset
to some extent by the technical assistance and training provided for RBA. The
comprehensive upgrading of the training program would help RBA to develop a
cadre of skilled staff and the introduction of planning, monitoring and
evaluating mechanisms with the help of consultants would help ensure the
timely completion of the physical works.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 19 -
64.    Features of the project which are of special interest are listed ir.
Section III of Annex III.
65.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
PresiLdent
By: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
June 9, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                         ANNEX I
Page I of 6
TABLE 3A
WP  -  uOCIA INDICATORS DATA SWEET
EGYT                           REXRnCE GROUPS (WE1GNTC  AVERAG5
AgE  I SdD 50. an.)                                                               - 14DST RKcEmT tSS1TCs 
OTAL            LUOI.4                                                 NfDDLE INCU 
AGRICULTURAL      26. S                              NST RUCCrT         IORTN AICA A              14101  INCOME
196O  /b   1970 Lb ESTIIATE lb       HI0DU 'AST         LATIN ANnEICA A CARIBREAN
GNP PER  CanT? v                     110.0      190.0    350.0 *              1213.b                  1902.0
ERECT CSUIWTtON PnE CAPITA
EI LORA5s OF COAL CQUIVALE.)    263.0         305.6    536.5                 713.3                  1259.4
POPULATION A1D VITAL StATI TICS
7P0ULAT1N- lo.D YA  (TfhhDS) 25329.0    32341.0  39773.0
16  POPULATION (PCESD OF TOTAL) 37.9           42.3      45.4                 47.3                    b5.7
POPULATIONi PRCJECTrIOI
POPUIAT1O IN tEAMC 2000 (MILLIONS)                     10.1
RTATZONTY POPULATION (NLIOS)                   -      103.6
TEAM STATIONASV POPULArION 1S XCACED                2000
POPUlATION MNSITY
PEE sQ. KM.                      25.9        32.3      38.6                 35.5                    35.2
PER Sr. KM. ACRICULTIUAL LAMD    961.9     11317.6   1364.7                *20.9                    92.3
POPULATION AGE ST UCTtUE (PECECNT)
0-14 ns.                         A2.2        *1.5      36.6                 64.3                    39.1
1I-X  Rs.                         36.7        S4.9      Sb.                  32.4                    36. I
LS ns. AND ADM                     3.1         3.2       3.5                  3.1                     4.2
rPULAIIDN GROUTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.2       2.1                  2.8                     2.4
URBAN                             4.1         3.3       2.6                  4.6                     3.6
CRUDE *IRTh RATt (PER TUUSAND)    43.5         36.4      3b.6                 61.2                    31.4
CRCDE KLATN RATE (PUE  TOLS1D)    19.0         15.1      12.1                 12.2                     5.4
CROSS REORODUCTLON PATE             3.0         2.7       2.4                  2.9                     2.1
FAKIL! FLAMING
ACCTOr=S. ANUAL (T0USANDS)         ..       206.0    le7.01
UsERs (PEECT or 1OF 1ED WONEN)    *-          9.0      17.d*
PrW AND SUTRITIOS
I301.1 0? F-OOD PEOBUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-IUCJ         96.0        99.0      92.0                IO0.&                   110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEIINT O
IEUUIRE0ENTS)                 109.0       I10.9    117.6/d               106.3                   106.R
PaROTEINS LGCS PER DAY)          77.9        75.1      61.I7r               71.9                    ".D
OP WHICH A3It*L AMD PULSE     18.5        17.4      19.9/d               18.0                    34.0
I (ACES 1-4' ICTALITY RATE     36-0        2154      14.2                 15.1                     5.b
ISALTKE
UF P EXECTACY AT DIZTI (TEAMS)   4O.1          51.)      56.6                 5.9                    64.2
INFAliT ORTALITY RATE (PUR
TuoUSmZO                          126.0          ..     103.4                104.3                    64.2
ACCESS la SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATIONE)
TOTAL                              *-          *-      64.0                 59.1                    63.6
UXmU                             39.           ..      6.0                  63.1                    76.9
ERtaL                              ..          _.      30.0                 39.5                    *3.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL CPERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                                                               59.3
U13M                               ..          ..        ._                   ..                    75.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                   ..                    30.0
POTULATION PER PtYSEICIAM        2556.1      1856.7   106O6.0d a            6015.5                  1617.3
PDnLA,TIo  PER NIURSING PERSON   1933.3/sf  15S6.4U- 109b6.6c d             1502.2                  1063.5
POPULATION PE  HOSPITAL XID
TOTAL                           *653t       445.7    *59.2/c               ".1 7                   177.4
0NAI                            509.7/f    352.7    652. 07                538.3                   179.8
RIRAL                          2190.57    2126.1   2297.37;               2403.3                  1903.4
A3ISSIOuS PEE SOSPITAL RED           ..          ..      30.Sft               25.S                    27.3
BOUSIIIC
TVEOACEL SIZE or  .O.SESLD
T13A                              4.6          ..       S.41N.
RURAL                                                   S. _5.
AVERACE RINER OF PERSONS PER  OO
TOTAL                              ..          ..       1.S/c
RURA                               ..          ..          -
ACCESS TO lIECTRCITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINS )
TOTAL                              ..          ..
U1L3i                            37.3                  76.9TC
RURAL                              .-          ..      18.I7
*   Tb. updated 1l91 Cll2 per  capita and pn pulatlo  asti-sXas tco bs
ond aU.29D.0 1h96u2dai  Rank Alias are $630 (at 4979-B1 prices)



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TAILE 3A
ECYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SIZET
trYPT                            REERENCE C OUPS CIIICUT&D AQRXAG5s
- MO5T RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE 2FIDIEm
MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA 4             MIDDLE 1MW'.E
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AKEICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCCA  IN
ALJSILl ENkDLUSENT RATIOS
PRI1.'RY:    TOTAL                 66.0         72.0      75.0                  86.7                    104.3
MALE                 o0.0         6e.30      58.0                 104.5                    106.4
FEMALL                52.0       53.0       61.0                   72.0                    103.3
SECCONLARY:   TOTAL                16.0         34.0      45.0                  39.7                     41.3
MIALE                23.0         46.0       59.0                  49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                9.0         22.0      36.0                   29.0                     41.5
VOCATIOAL ENItOL. (C OF SECONDARY) 22.0           19.0      19.5                  10.1                      33.7
PCP-L-TEACHEII RATIO
PRi.YAY                            39.0         35.0      33.8                  34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                          It.O         25.0      25.2                  23.7                     16.7
ADMLT LI:ERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0           ..      44.0,d                *3.3                      79.L
CONSL.M-:IOS
PASSENGER CARS PER THOLSAND
POPL';ATIO.                         2.7         4.0        7.61d                17.8                     42.8
RAD;O RECEIVERS PER TBOLSA.sD
POPLLATION                         57.9       136.1      138.9                 131.3                    270.5
TV RECE IVERN PER THOLSAND
PO PL.LA7TW                         1.9         16.4      33.4                  44.1                    107.7
NEUSPAPLk. ('DAILY CENERAL
ISTEhLS.'' CIRCULAT10 PER
THILSANsD POPLLATION                   ..         23.0      63.7                  3..5                     63.7
CINLM. ANN-CAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.6/1f       2.2       1.8S/a                1.7                      2.;
LAbO,R FOHCE
TSAL :.ABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4      9041.9   11063.5
FDIALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2       7.9                  10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.0         54.0      50.0                  42.4                     31.3
LE%DLSThtY (PERCENT)               12.0        19.0       30.0                  27.8                     23.9
PART::A.Tl;05 RATE (PERCENT)
.OTAL                                28.9        28.D       27.8                  26.0                     33.6
MALE                                 53.2         51.5      50.7                  46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1       4.4                   5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPE.DENCY RATIO               1.6          1.6       1.6                   1.9                       1.3
IsCo!E DISTR;BA;Ob
PERCENT OF PRIVAT  INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHES: 5 PERCE.S  OF HOLSEHOLDS   17.5/h       17.4/h i  2?                       .        
HlCiEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  46.6fh       4'.sT Z    49.2..
LOWEST 20 PERCEN'T OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.67K        7 07F1    s.f,.
LOVIST 40 PERCE!NT..... OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57  i8.77ii    z&.a**
POVERTY TARGET GROCPS
EST.'A.ED ABSOL:;E PGOERTY INCW.E
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     131.0                 279.2
RVRAL                                 ..          ..      94.0                 178.6                     184.1
ESTI4ATED RELATIVE POVERTY iNCOME
LEVc;L tUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     180.0                 403.6                     518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     118.0                 285.6                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELO0' ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCEN.T)
UtRBAN                               ..           ..      21.0                  22.1
RCRAL                                ..           ..      25.0                  30.9
Not available
Not appilc-ble.
NOTES
.s   The group averages for each Indlcator are populatiorweighted arithmetic means.  Coverqe of countries
:ons the indicators cepends on availabillty of data and is not uniform.
/b   Lnless otherwlse noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: for 1970. betsen 1969
and 1971: and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1978 and 1980.
/c   197I ; Id 1977- /e ReRIstered. not all practinR in the country: If 1962; LI 1975; /h Rural expenditures:
It 19tS; U National. 1974-75.
May. 1982



en:ts                                                             Jesaci   . sin  a4 P.ma:e  mu1m-l.  - mea  si .s aS  itnss
name fol ji. *c-55' efl -41G MMGNs Gl--ma.i s titt.
Gnyi  -WG iS.t  itsci   --   AilS cabac '-ilt hi, eliysa
Nl-I -ma: Tc...  .mie  y.. m. y-e-nta" Jt-c  cc  im
- te.  m    ~iinc.   h In---i  GM i-es-' ,s-et  ecuhe              n
t-colac ciia
-          cSlihcii   A-   Me -tia.si.lii      eld. cii                          
i.....ci   II-te.  Olc llGls,   - -ie,ld 3t Isa   le. -                    pts.Iol  -. ji ic           icAl-a              rdom ee  eT-  ma   aecs
*   -   .iici.,c.t nac:aeaaSd*seicmScye ce ceics  pilitass .ci. tsil it-te   eatit cici *iSiSc  tuai Stes-  hul-
n.   me  i Eah:jii-   ie,  -   cc-..*i.  -.            5            G s.*  c  N-s ffi  -1e ci    mmsiac.lis       le
- . a.. - eeaiae ha sat iii  mint icaeiia acuey      . cente          iciestinimin  ass                 ... I.ccea T-mas WA:i 357i    ,i-i
_14  M.t idlius*yiiil                                       ieel                      A..iee    eits    iil.31SS
.et i  3cc-ecil.insci  lsiiseei .!  is-s siimSttctii                        e      yim           m    ls.tiaic    icsiitim    i3ifi   se   a =    c cteW .
Suits    cite  n-Ss  -I:  tis..tcy            iaes.   . t,iii l-Ifl   e51tUu =ii  StN*s.mi5Sei
s i c .,   iii.  Sswi is...' acisei  .3.1mm  ecunticl~~~~5    em   -s         `s .P. a,Po n03ii i-ai  - ..sues e#IT - aJ   itinPie
._N    Main .i.i.ss             ..      -NGiSlas  n                                   :--    A' ete    me     Imp" ""    m   ca    c;  situ
GNJ S   wvM    ."              Pi*   aiell m it -Pi.    a    nAsw  a  m.ii         om.l - iss-imeiif  in-
N  GM, 9-i P- 1_%.-Tl~lG Nft, P  NNG-Ait  meln  Wo   -Iansiie r- mis  m    eseemac sI v"- etude cGmsli
ff    -"lls_    _u    .-  01-mcj losii.1 101pl                    -St-           tp   Ani  aiM me me    J.-fl   ssus eisj        r
cIT. e            W m   s -d -Ti-1  Mii..  - IiiCZ- 1WGIiS. ic.                 GaINsmeN eis  a0-   Von  flie  ci"   N            dia   T. - aal    m
G            iletm   e   cemmii iTa  me-n  c me" elte  tsci 5- me. A4 1,   is Mc-i  m    mys
*   mca   Ithitmetfl*td~  .c  e  ieta. imci Vanlsmc   fJ-tccdt rma ama   yIsc acai  i
acs. icdtlil  wt  s  im   5- l.~-ecia.  m  cia1meisesa GNOP                               me  ei I  medtn   pma   t  sn
asciws    m- a.d-NAsi    iiM ---   -Ii.   "l   - a cmcsi  alaFz                       ao  ePm'  aGM, -ecIW efli  tinli- Se G-.cmmO   ntI i. GMea.
icici de   tin.  5 leisisaS- cis  "s   ela.    - i     .-.UTj¶                   -ame-s        N -m,m  cin      ilf  cC    mis?;j __   ii. sIte  as- -ihIl ,-
itl   etm   mt    a   5Ccec    sentiitGdstl    mIfi,                                        ofti 'a *tat,-,   Mi,
-1  I   -  ..P--  ."J.. P...mils..-s i-S-  mnime  isn ii It    lifl  s   mm
I. SwIlle N G     mals,  _M              -...      Iya  asmsie--ii                            sisa    s.itit_lm                    f   il5-i
.iii dciie   a sims- tes isted   eiitmt hwimcScctsa,asis                    i  ce-tlc  tw-da  s m   me icimaWl  m-at  ia  Al-emiaste5
lilcismi -- eciesi lftm ds.iie    -ntyeciecn-a M   l- WtIm, t                   i       ..ched T  MGMu yn   ti-tue   gs cectic-  a ns UiStitiicaci
ci hiemma  isi il-tisa cs -  int istaiSI mi -im   Mi   lstNol liel, c-    i                            iiee   tmtl  -l  Cmasi    ity    :m
si a *-si u.hs ..       an.am.m  .n   it.ctM     m ec.             t                 ctUNjGs,              icmti pi             am        -~ .   G
.--,7   ---c--- r~n    - m i                                                            ; tisc  ettlsa
ne    i mc ice GNmil -.1f   mistm          aiiamaim.                                                         --            stimo  i-mi mIh i-Itiv
ft- -t:SNNAN. 1-  aMGGAAG  ~.D "-I  _  M               -it GING9-n-   i.md-a-oa INTme  m-s I            sqe   i    tsSdli
AND.S."-iesi iteaasc                                    inim"Owainnsesm    Nvo me& cata   mi.   e   cm 
me  i  isin  p.0 aiioicstcssa --menet d                  ~ y  S-mum aci   ti AtMINtG   aiciliisiilei sit
a....:. miea    N-Asal. tens w- SiS,ehe  me  antic -1 Mec  islcJ.     i-T, is-n   u    e    :                                                                   Imt
atn c umpcai   .m.  cn    i-tnen-ti                         n--                      iadamtmc                    nc   nina -i iciStinc  ajc  ii iS.
'aI.,lii AX  mldmedl  is uSedl"   m-.al v bmc  u_ ecitni  mistP.derMI, 1                                                                              -tidtte
enici   Iii n    Pm1Mi   -St-ILNG me   lma..t- nlo   .ce.ce                       schtde  itcm  aiITtis  AIsG metm   PNGNi,i me meI-mL            as.c
iiiesteme  asil  . msalimcazi  lia piiici  s. lie                    isitiaed eInG    m A   IMicesN  ml imSil  inG.g4 ri    ii  la.u tAs1 si.  c
act  clii isedesiaic myset aiue  ta  i  ee:tcji mml am              Ii eieccs  aw-l ci is j med Wim I.." cc it tINiSPi . 1iSi iSll
ccm~  as ctes -astcc euea, -  TIWfVona wfl---W  EN,vG                      leetia   maINO    sat~ ceiulidA.  -   Nomticc  e" *A -IsAcetm,  sem  isis
ON-And No ..... MD- VsTiiq-islsTM                                                --Ad-MutmisI di                                 Scac Say.ei  me-
E~U     aiiti     Ie.a Meycm        i        i   -.      im""M  I t it WGINi il.t
,"M  P"d'            .4sc-iiO."  -itnAd itfa  teslas             "Ga tact  a ft c icsmg    SaiWttiii
oll-ING ... ..-Sleecmfi_  GatM,Ical im   -c  -testfM is                               Ii           olis   mn   steer-   "Mat mm ej  sePM tiic    3a
amisS        ccctmi istit  a  tlctcic1e  eic chtyme  ii,         oul          -ilm P"   al Gomrolf" Siuittilam    MAmnia   ihtIiam 
- tee= 1_. me-'Oa'-imtmepiim                            icast  eZi                       etst.-ia  y.nlmcitnt  ce catim                                     cuti
J"o    -sla P    i am                       tami           eil  mi.  itmte m               liudmcte
as oin-,Msaic      A   tem n-e    awit-  f =tm     atsi         -attyull`vM                  "No tttse   eatite           e  as&","- T.meS a         ""P  ten.
letisss   mac11IRMeiLme-ice IZU              na   :cawc-a  p         L amata,-s'simcimsldmS 
a   decfl   tejal   e -muM  -lee. -   s  lie imim  hi Ic-WIiOa
-mess-71* sNcie    ncmi    a-m a                                                                          e-c         e   il
itmat   MOMa ce  m  CI.  a. ceam        it-  am  .inime                              'nIII'M Sitia      ifimmi dii ced    a         1. dmitts,     ilcc
i.tM .t   M., me . IdeitiG    ... Ace I.c S-.me'AG ci-c V-                         pmeietn  i                      lt- .OI.,c  eieniitses 
-icica mc  cii  -icala -  ciness 11i -a1 ml  mimit as cit."a s-lgIamsIW 
-""M  Ji sin  ci           £,i"Is-5tPMi"So"
aud  a  ashu     ieti        il5iitictm     ec"5-To.   maiam A N.                                       t  -        Gsci  me c . t_0    -tle      icim
-c-ice  aMItNISSe cea1lfs la I-cmWis,q          -m      -settee  mim -Meat   e-e
Gites.  wih   3 w           -sie       =siM. --   l   mSac  1                            &cit5 imin  nie AMW1 elm iam                 -%_i   a      urenr
-cases htisdtmid tatelsicto"lNoveiam,tesPoniw-mteii Nd  -.#wet1an£ 
cm  hiiism  ,ssin   ct isi    I  a a  m.it.  les,   e -mce  ec eat leitdsasi   as-anG P.i SaMG ia .   OGIN . e           Nci  ia  -Alflow
- ca. ii  etca- mies eme~ GOi 1-  2Al- W. atethi, .m satefim,at   eti  o   ." m                            W"~   .W             oM          iie-  Si9   wi -I P
c sAN ci icll mmi it tiams lim01 Uso -tim iSJ -WIcG- OIPI -umms dme i mien Titoc ma meau c0 aomt mimes lssie inq %it me
eiwl ci-ll Sittwte mi. ma ems. "s.aucmi 11110ic-maa ifiWiisNmiV "Me "Smt .-"O aeMI aP esi cANM,m ns mm a IM,cf me- -ac. an
c-atm   mis as dictum.n. eec cc            - 1i1mts  cesiu     MtIi."   asP P-im   miG etCIM   55 iinchD. ci At  i4.Meiai  tedStic_              
idi  ,. a   mmm   -cc. it .mc   urn.o  AGme eai  wGims Mic   smmeo s         pm eat es.iasec Wwt.   mesa Gi           as" sT en. citme - cake   ie.
as    Mme  me-  mi A.R   eec-M .um         amiii  a    almS e G I*"a) re  sic-   tic ec MIMI            nipa   male    "am on Iii Se . saci   nim Aii
9    30    C    O'Bvd                -m1emc-i   si1sc             1i slei-t     vmtcica   as-mi   wm                        isi   ucaitc    ina-sc
I      c      se        i ec   titmtsamiimasfl   i  nS-c   smattwnpmmc  si                                                        ij   -e   tin    imi



- 23 -
A55iX I
OL    - 1   IIC  IDICAMRS                                      PFs . of e
Pop.&Ixsso: i.3 wila 111905UI
CSP per capita  aS 5650 o/ (1980/513
rut  tillion
S at Current                                    A£SC AL  GROWU ? H   R A r C S   t 3
prices)                   ACTUAL                                   ET.--             P a O J ' c T ' 0
1950/51       1975    1976    19;7    1978    1979    1950al5  1961ioZ   1962M'5   19583164  19&6,5   1955184   1OI6C7
NATIC09AL ACGOUNIS
Fro" -ae c.ic Product bi         26233.0          10.-   10.3    10.9    11.9    5.2         9.2       7_6       7.8       7.:       7.1       6.S       S. 
Aricultu.re                    *901.0           6.3     1.6   -3.0    5S5       3.9      ;.3        3.0       2.3       2.5       2.6       2.7       2.U
L ourtry                       *379.0          10.e    '.5      9.5    12.3    e.5       7.6       7.3        9.0       9.2          tl     9.1       t4.5
Petroleum                      01.0            39.4   52.3    55.2    z2.0   10.3       11.9        6.0       ..6       6.3       76_       5.5        . _
S.r.icea                       9615.0           9.2    11.6     9.-    12.O    10.2    10os         9.9      11.0       9_8       R.5       J.6       S.6
Cooapcion                        20167.0          -3.8    853    11.0    11.2    *.5        L2.6       9.0       9 2       5.3        .1       6.7       5.0
Cross 7mensr                      7309.0          5 .2   -t.2      9.3   -2.'      9.-       5.5        .1       6.0       5.8       5.7       5 7       6.1
Exports of CIFS                   5205.0          27.2   30.8      9.0     3.0     5.8     10.7        6.1       8.2       b.0       I.e       5 54      5.S
Laports of CUPS                  11-29.0         16.0   -5.3       2.5    6.2      5.9     13.7       7.9       6.5        b.7       5.C       5. 1.7
Croas RN&omal s.in&               5019.3         133.0    76.5    25.-    17.6  -13.6
P3LICES
GCP Deflator                                      50.6    55.9   60.5   65.5    81.0    100.0          -         -         -         -         -
Exchasne  Race cl                                  Z.15    1.97    1.75    1.56    1._3      1.35      -         -         -         -         -
Share of =P at Plsrket Prices (Q)                       Awray Incrase () at Consant Prites
(at cu,n9 yric)                                 1905 Prieon  1S75 Price.    1952151 Prices
1960    1970    1975    1979             1956/5a             1960-1970    J970-1975  1975-1979 NF81-FYS6
Cross Domsatic ProdCt
- Agricultmee                    27.9   25.3    25.2   19.9    20.2         15.7               :67            5.1        1.'
1od.tr7 & Pcrrolss,            23.7   26.1   26.1    36.1        36.6    35.t                 3.0          :.*        17.5        5.6
- Semv_ces                       62.9   o0.8   62.7    41.2    38.8    *3.7                     6.3           .6 -      t108         .f
Co*oapu.on                       57.3   90.6   87.7    79.5        53.1     8.0                  6.6          5.0        6.8        5.5
Cross losncat                    13.3    13.9   33.4    32.5    30.2    2855                     5.8         *6.         1_8        5.t
Export of CUTS                   19.5   14-2    20.2    30.7    33.9        33.0                6.9          22.8       11.6        6.8
I.porc of  uM                    20.1   185.    61.3    65.7    .7_2        69.6                1.1          13.5        _.5        6.6
Cross NaCtontl Sarong             12.S     7.7   146.    27.0      20.7    14.6                  7.2         17.2        2.: 
A. _ cf CDP
9eo    1970    1975    1979    1980181   1961/82
PUBLC FINCE
c_rr0e  aRe                     18.5   21.3    36.1   32.9        666       43.2
Currant Expasditsr,            21.5   22.0   *0.5    16.0         D_-6      40.6
Lnrreat Surpls (0) or
ef&cit (-)3                  -3.0    -0.7        -4.    -3.1     8.0       2.6
lnsemc aspeoiitsre             1I.5    L1.1    11.8    20.0       22.2      21.3
Foreign Vinwigs                 -       -        5.9     8.9       6.5       5.8
1960-70  1970-75  1975-50   MI-FrS7
011HE INDICATORS
CrP Grwtb Nate (,                *.5       3.0     11.5      7.3
CP per capita growth
rate (2)                       1.9      2.7      8.7       5.6
En.rxy COnsonpt 10, growth
rate Cl) d/                             14.9     1312     11.0
ICOn                             -        -         3.b       3
HargInal Sasg  Rate              -         -        0.66    0.17
Lsport Elasticity                0.9      1.7       0.9      0.8
ai  Based  n EPO methodology (three yea- sweraze exchange  rate).
b/  CUP for 1950181 ot currant prices la valued at  ikt prcas.- Sectoral ahares and rates of growth coocro CDP at factor Cot.c
e/  Effectie rate computed as a wieghted awrage of official *Cd prlal Id  market rates.
d/ Electricity nly.
March 1983



- 24 -
ABNEX I
Page 5 of e
ECYPT - EXTIELUL TADE
PopuYltion:  .3.3 uiLion (1980181)
ChP per capita: USS650-/(1980/81)
Amount (million)                   Annual Grovth Rate ('. at Constant 1980/81 Prices
USS at current
prices)                      A C T U A L                           EST         P R o J E C T E D
1980/81    1975     1976     1977      1978     1979    80/81    81/82      82/83    83/84    84i85
EXTERNAL TRADE
erchandise Exports              6002       27_2     19.6       3.1      7.7      9.6      10.5      8.4      7.2       5.6      6.7
-  Primry b'                     t64      -15.d    -8.5       25.7   -29.8       4.5      10.1    -3.5       0.9       1.2      1.4
-  Hanufaztures b                920       24.8   -14.6   -27.3        17.9      2.1    -12.5    -6.2        6.2      6.8       7.4
-  Petrole%.s                  4442        72.0     63.3      11.1     16.1     22.6      12.1     13.7      8.3      5.9       7.2
merchaneise laports            10039       14.1    -5.0       -1.1      8.5      5.9      18.o      7.5      6.3      6.5       5.1
-  Food                         2556       27.4     16.9    -18.1      25.8    -7.0      21.2      11.8      1.0      5.5       3.1
-  Petroleu                      333      -34.2    -23.3    -53.3       2.7    -11.8      17.7      6.4      3.3      1.8       0.4
- lachieery and Equipment       3900       59.5     24.8     21.4    -0.7       25.6     14.3       7.4      7.3      6.7       6.t,
- Others                        3250       17.9   -26.2       10.7      7.5      0_2     20.0       4.4      8.3      7.5       5.5
Prices
Export Price Index                         51.5     49.9      52.3     52.9     76.0    100.0      93.8    100.7    109.1    119.4
Import Price Index                         60.b     63.5     70.;      76.1     87.9    100.0    105.8    116.9    126.2    135.7
Terms of Trade Index                       85.0     78.6      74.3     69.5     86.5    100.0      88.6     86.1     86.5    88.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)      Average Annual Increase (1)
(at current prices)              at constant 1980/81 prices
1970     1975     1979    80181  84/85       197S/79   FY81/FY85
Exports                                                                    9.8      6.P
Primary b/             64.2      28.3     13.6     11.1   12.1         -4.1      2.9
Petroleum               4.8      25.2     71.0     74.0   71.0         26.8      7.3
manuf&cturesx'/         31.0     46.7     15.4     14.9   16.8        -15.3      6.9
Imports                                                                    1.9      6.1
Feod                    13.4     23.6     22.9     25.5   24.8          2.9      5.1
Petroleum               8.2       6.9      3.3      3.3    2.4        -24.5      2.8
Machinery               23.4     23.7     38.8     38.8   40.2         17.2      6.8
Others                  ,5.0     45.8     35.0      32.4   32.6        -3.1      6.1
Share of Trade vith          Share of Trade vith                 Share of Trade vith
Industrial Countries (l)     Developing Countries (:)        Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (1)
1965     1970     1975       1965      1970     1975              1965     1970     1975
D0IECTIO,' OF TRADE
Exports                         27.0     17.0     14.0        18.0     22.D      101.0             1.0      1.0      4.0
Priary                       29.0     19.0     18.0        17.0     22.0     11.0                -       1.0      3.0
ManufaCtures                 19.0     12.0      3.0        23.0     23.0      9.0               4.0      3.0       5.0
Imports                         55.0     42.0     65.0        18.0     25.o     14.0                -        -       _.
J/  Based on EPD methodology (three year average exchange rate).
bl/ Not including oil and oil products.
EMIDA
march 1983



-    25    -                                                                    A3EX I
FaM. 4 of 4,
EGYPT - BALANCE  or PaYnTNE. ErrER3AL CAPITaL AND 0EBT
(.sllion USs at current prices
ES?.                  P ROJ E C TED
1974    1975    197J    1977    1975    1979   19507N1  1981182    1982/53    1953o8J    19C E/85    198515/            1848F7F
1A2MLE. OF PAYMIETS
Eaport of Goods and No-Fetor
Services                                 2251    2503    3319    3888    4099    5585    5205           8070        5320       1149S       13367       15298       17442
- uf d Lch  rchano.se f.o.b_                1515    1875    2169    2346    2555    4024    S002          5550        5650        Pi1o        9467       10546       1235v
Ipoprts of Goods sad Non-Factor
services                                -3959   -5141   -5182   -5579   -5612   -8300  -11-29  -11500             -10850      -17739      -20079      -:2186      -24875
- of SSbLOb  er.hand,se e.c.f_            -3618    4605   44659   -5110   -s9e   -7136  -10039  -10350               -90W      -15415      -17427      -193o       -21520
Set Factor Incise                             70     12Z      413      472    109      I 113     550        'L          70        1168P       1oe05        0 I          78
%ec Pri-vte Tran fers                        42       90       57       63       54      a8       60        66                      so 80       18          97          In'
torrent Accoun.  o Balnce                 -155   -2-26   -13163   _145b   -1361   -1484   -2314    -3316             -2387        46965      -5338       -n53        -6546
Prvate DLreCt InvesreCt                       57     225      444      477      357     710    1170       1350        1472        1782        2016        725f0       25:2
MLT Loans and Gr-Ans tet)                     69     :70      547      730    1141    1471    1516        1291        1165        2263        2303        2130        ::22
- offtl ta  lan, and grants                 -21      210      ..90     803    t028    1034    1213        1461        1177        1631        1829        2161        2132
- prL-ate                                    90       60      157      -73      113     3_17     303      -170         -12         S30         474         766         302
Other *-pi cl ( Iet I'                      1393    19W       191      339    -161    -5n       -705       768        -S50         920        1219        1 373       141l
Chan.r *  R-eser-es                           47      24       rl      -90       14     -08      333       -93           0           0           0           0           0
In:ern-tional Reservws                      Si b16   075      o42     a80    IO6    1098    1300          900         900        115;        1079        1018         ah0
- o:r vcn golC                              102      102      102      104I   I4       104      -         --         --          -_          -_          __           __
R -serv-- a- Months I prts 37 1.7                    l.a        I      2_1     2.2      158    1L5         1.0         0.9         0.9         o.r         0.7         0.7
LITE8NAL CAPITAL AND DEST
Cross Dis-bor    rt                        2185    3522    2218    3256    2758    2291    2562           27.1        3012        5259        5975        6469        6665
O:fctcal Gr-nts 51                       1261     986      705      352     291       72      279       395         519         626         710         775         84o
Cones sional Loans                       120    144        668    1855    1600       996    1276       1034         952        1472        1524        1625        I6_4
- USC                                     55      199     421      591      79       833 1 103         900          798        1292        1326        1421        138e
- OPEC                                      1    1142      171      137      93       43       69        28          1'           1           0O    0                 0
- 10                                     12       49       :2      42       45       55       48        98         127         101          8.                      22
- uher-                                   50       54       34    1055      603       65       56         7          11          rs         113         153         231
Non44oncessson l Loans                   804    1092       e45    1049      867    1223    1007        1302        1541        2162        2425        2598        25SO
- oCtLcal esport credits                 379      639      214       Z4      o4 50             83       15S         292         145         182         .04         230
-15b5                                     -        14      31       37       57      115      1'6       139         190         282         347         411         472
- ocher oolc,Iseral                       -         O       -      256       15        5        4        18          27          61          81         102         120
- prvart                                 425      431      595     732      748    1050       774      960         1032        1674        1514        1951        2028
Gap Fine Ln.                                                                                                                       999        1307        1465        160$
fnternal DebC
Debt outstdLin  and d-sburaed              2830    -830    5770    5090    9920   11330   13505    16849             15517       20216       23176       :5377       2'720
- official                              1990    3890    4720    6800    5500    9470   11296    11370             t2051      14306        1548$       14648       15448l
- privae                                 840      940    1050    1290    1420    [boC    2210          3479        3466        3736        4210        479 6       47$1
- tap rinane m                                                                                                                 2174        3481        4950        4473
UtiLrsed Debt                               1602    242%    3014    4515    4390    462Q    5951          9836        5559        7315        7713        5211        8830
Debt Service
Total Servi-e Parent                         517     501      665    1099    1211    1040    2334         1928        2380        3400        4037        4768        5587
- interest                                70      115      111     3;0      387      236      684      6tO          800         014        1034        315S        1275
- pyommcs:e--                            21:    21.6:   16.8:   23.v:   21.8:   14.6?   15.6:    21.2:             25.4;       21.1:       22.7       272.1:      22.7:
Aserace Inr--rt Rate on  . o                6.3 41             5.1 5S    1   4*   4     6.4      6.5       7.3         7-3         7.3         7.2 7                    :
- otffical
-           -~~~ prieatn
Average MaturLty of 5ev Loan  (years)    17.2    18.5    23.3    15.7    27.9    24.5    19.5              16.9        16.D        15.8        15.7       315         1S.IS
- nt:liciaL
- private
Li  Foreign assets of Central Link.
21  Esport  of goods end services   t inclIdin  foreiLn oil copanies -ports.
31  Merchand        only
_i lIluding co_rcial banks o-Prtions. residu; for-ein financin  and  spcial hslance of pa nts financing
5/  Icluding specal balane- of payent  grants.
March 19n3



-26 -                                           AN=EX II
Page I of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK CGROP OPERATIONS IN EGCPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
A-:unt in million US dollars-
Loan/Credit     Approved       Borrower      Purpose                                     (lers cancellations)
Numbers          FY                                                                Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
20 Loans and Credits fuLly disbursed 11                                             393.4    257.8          -
La 1064            75            SCA         Suez Canal Rehabilitation               50.0       -           7.7
Lu 1239            76            APA         Alexandria Port                         45.0       -          20.3
La 1276-T 2/       76            ARE         Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0       -          13.8
Cr  637            76            ARE         Upper Egypt Drainage 11                   -      40.0          4.9
Lu 1285            76            ARE         Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0       -          10.0
Lu 1292            76            ARE         Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0       -           4.5
Lu 1369            77            AMA         Alexandria Water Supply                 53.2       -          19.4
Cr  719             77           ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                    -      27.0          1.1
Lu 1439            77            ARE       - Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0       -          22.0
Lu 1440-T 2/       77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0       -           9.8
Cr  774            78            ARE         Telecormunications II                     -      53.0         31.0
Cr  830            78            ARE         Agricultural Development                  -      32.0         19.4
Cr  831            78           ARE          Urban Development                         -      14.0         11.6
Cr  850            79            ARE         Population II                             -      25.0         11.8
Cr  868            79            ARE         Education II                              -      40.0         20.3
La S-14            79            ARE         New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance            11.0       -           3.3
Cr  909             79           ARE         Tourism                                   -      32.5         24.5
Lu 1732            79            ARE         Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0       --          3.7
Cr  935            79            ARE         Shoubrah El Eheima Thermal Power          -      37.0         21.7
Lu 1733            79            EEA         Shcubzah El Rheina Thermal Power 3/  102.0         -         100.8
Cr  988            80            ARE         Agroindustries                            -      45.0         15.3
Lu 1804            80            DIN         Development Industrial lank IV          50.0       -           7.4
Lu 1842            80            ARE         KIDB                                    30.0       --         26.8
Cr 1024            80            ARE         Cairo Gas Distribution                    -      50.0          0.3
Lu 1849            80            ARE         Pulp and Paper                          50.0       -         44.9
Lu 1886            80           WEA          Power III                                7.0       -           7.0
Cr 1052            80            EEA         Power III                                 -     120.0         91.4
Cr 1069            81            ARE         Education III 4Y                          -      40.1         25.6
Lu 1928            81            EGPC        Western Desert Exploration              25.0       -           7.2
Cr 1083            81            ARE         New Laud Develoymen t 4-                         80.0         55.4
Cr 1111            81            ARE         Fish Farming 4                          -        14.0         10.4
Lu 2002            81            HADISOLB    Htadiolb Rehabilitation                 64.0       -          62.1
Cr 1156            81            ARE         Beheirs Water Supply 4I                   -      56.6        47.2
Cr 1162            81            ARE         Technical Assistance 4/                   --      6.9          6.1
Ln 2041            82            ARE         Telecommnications III                   64.0       --         64.0
Ln 2074            82            DIB         Development Industrial Bank V          120.0       --        106.0
Lo 2103            82            EGPC        Abu Qir Gas Development                 90.0       --         90.0
Ln 2176            82            ARE         Greater Cairo Urban Development         59.0       --590
Ln 2243            83            ARE         Agroindustries II  /                    81.2       --         81.2
Totals 6/                                                                          1520.8    9I709       1168.9
Of which has been repaid                                                            103.6      1.7
Total now outstanding                                                              1417.2    969.2
Amount sold                                          7.5
Of which has been repaid                             7.5
Total now held by Bank and LDA                                                     1417.2    969.2
1/ Excludes 3 credits for engineering which were subsej:'ently refinanced, and a USSI million PPF advance granted
for the Greater Cairo Urban Development Project.
2/ Third Window Loan.
3/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of US935.0 million.
4/ Credit denominated in SDRa. Amount shown is U5$ equivalent at time of negotiations for the IDA amount, and US$
equivalent at March 31, 1983 for the undisbursed amount.
5/ Not yet effective.
6/ Excludes a UStl32 million loan for an El Dikbeila Port Project, a US$38 million loan for a Vocational Training
Project and a US$41.5 million loan for an Irrigation Pumping Stations Rehabilitation Project which vere signed
after atrch 31. 1983; and a US$165.3 million loan for an El Dikheils Reinforcing Bar Project which has been
approved by the Board but not yet signed.
(231J)



- 27 -                                      ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal
Year    Obligor                   Type of Business                 Loan      Equity    Total
- -(USS Million) -
76, 82  Arab Ceramic Company      Ceramic Industry                  5.63      1.14      7.77
78    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry        0.43     0.16       0.59
78    Delta Sugar Company       Agricultural Production,         20.00     3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
79, 83  Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing          12.49      2.35     14.84
Company
80, 81  Ismailia Fish             Food and Food P-ocessing          3.91      1.05      4.96
Farming Company
80    Suez Cement Company       Building Materials               30.00       -       30.00
81    Luxor Hotel               Crocodile Tourist Project         4.41     0.72       5.13
Total gross commitments                                            77.87      8.42     86.29
Less: Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                              12.00      -        12.00
Total comitments now held by IFC                                   65.87      8.42     74.29
Total Undisbursed                                                  12.41      2.99     15.40
231J



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS It: EXECUTIOt; 1/
AS OF MARCH 3, 1983
Ln. No. ")64-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project execution is generally satisfactory, although some items
have lagged behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for all items have been
awarded. The financial situation of the borrower is sound.
La. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works contract is
proceeding slowly and other civil works are behind schedule, due largely to
changes in the senior management of the Alexandria Port Authority and
delays in the provision by Government of funds to pay the contractor.
Procurement of most equipment is progressing satisfacterily except for the
radar equipment for which the Authority has decided to call for new bids.
Project completion may be delayed by up to 12 months.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11. 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
While substantial progress has been made on most components of
this loan, the El Nasr Canal component is three years behind schedule; this
is the main irrigation canal in the project area. After extensive
discussion with the Government, a new schedule has been developed for the
repair of the Canal, and progress is now being made. On this basis the
closing date was extended initially for one year. All funds are committed
for the credit component. Although there have been significant problems in
the development of the seed farm, the Bank has been discussing with
Egyptian officials revised modes of management which should improve
performance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that the) do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weak.7-!sses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion on 390,000 feddans, about 78Z of the project area. Tile drains
have been installed on 100,000 feddans, about 20% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule due mainly to construction planning and
management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in public sector
contracting companies, as well as because of earlier delays in importing
plastic pipe laying machines. The project management has recently taken
steps to improve progress, in particular to try to improve construction
management. The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it will need
continued integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of
infected patients, and improved qualit.y control. The Government has
requested an extension of the closing date, which is under consideration.
The credit portion of the project was drawn down first.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a fire on the construction site of one of
the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about
US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due
to the increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials. Although disbursements were slower than anticipated,
procurement under the Bank loan is virtually complete. The project closed
as -;cheduled, and the account is being held open for six months.
Ln. 1,. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: March 31,
1984.
All contracts, except one for construction and operational
equipment, have been awarded. Serious foundation problems are being
encountered at one of the treatment plant siteb and a delay of six months
is anticipated. Civil works construction at the other sites is progressing
well. The Alexandria Water General Authority (AWGA) is carrying out the
installation of data processing equipment which was purchased under the
project. AWGA is working with the Ministry of Finance to liquidate old
Government agencies' debts to AWGA. The Ministry will deduct the verified
balances directly from concerned agencies' accounts. The Government has
allocated amounts to compensate AWGA for losses in its Western Desert
operations; actual payment, which was scheduled to be made upon submission
of FY82 accounts, has not yet been made. Action on tariffs has been
delayed; a National Committee in the Ministry of Housing is preparing
proposals for nationwide tariff increases.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Cr. No. 7l9-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and La. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Construction and remodelling of open drains on abvut 624,000
feddans (77% of the project area) is on schedule. Tile drains have been
installed covering some 97,000 feddans, about 24% of the project target.
This activity is behind schedule mainly because of construction planning
and management constraints in the Drainage Authority and in publiL sector
contracting companies. About 40% of the civil works of the four new
pumping stations is completed; with the underwater foundation works nearing
completion, progress on this component is expected to improve. The
Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule,-but needs continued integrated
strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected patients, and
improved quality control. More than 402 of the project has been disbursed
and over 90% committed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Out of the credit of US$53 million about US$40 million has been
committed and about US$7 million is in the process of being committed. Due
to earlier delays in procurement, the project has been delayed by about
three years. The closing date was extended initially from December 31,
1982 to June 30, 1983 to enable the Government to prepare a plan of action
for the settlement of receivables from Government agencies. A further
extension may be considered, pending satisfactory action on the collection
of arrears. ARENTO revised its telecommunications tariffs in
January/February 1982, and the resulting increased revenues are expected to
be sufficient for ARENTO to achieve the agreed minimum rate of return of
10- on its revalued assets.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
execution. Project organization and management have been strengthened and
the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A study
of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and finance
will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of machinery
workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of farm
implements is progressing.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of August
30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The As suit Governorate is making reasonable progress in
implementing its components. Since the revision in the Alexa-ndria
components, progress has been quite satisfactory. Implementation of
project components in Cairo slowed down due to senior staffing changes.
However, implementation has since improved and is expected to catch up with
the agreed schedule. The credit closing date has been initiaLly postponed
for one year to December 31, 1983. A further postponement is anticipated.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date; May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983.
The construction of 85Z of the project facilities and the
procurement of all furniture, equipment and vehicles have been completed.
The implementation of the project's software components began in 1981 and
is about three years behind schedule. A postponement of the closing date
will likely be needed. With the recruitment of additional personnel
project management has improved. Key actions such as a detailed action
plan for 1983/84 and a management information system are currently being
developed to help accelerate progress in the software components.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984.
Overall project execution is satisfactory. Implementation of the
technical assistance components is on schedule. Although disbursements are
somewhat slower than appraisal estimates, no major problems are envisaged.
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Eagineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date; October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The experimental mine started operations in January 1981, a delay
of about 10 months.  By September 1981 chemical tests on the phosphate rock
and optimization studies on alternative configurations of the project, its
scope and output volume as well as locations of phosphate processing
facilities were completed. In November 1982 a detailed project report on
the mining operations was received. The Bank's conclusions have been
communicated to the Egyptian authorities. A feasibility study for an
integrated project was foreseen within the engineering project. However,
agreement on its scope consistent with the Bank's conclusions will have to
be reached with the Egyptian authorities before the closing date of June
30, 1983 can be extended to undertake the study. Such an agreement has not
yet been reached.



- 32 -                          ANNEX II
Page 7 of ll
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; March 26, 1980; Closing Date; December 31, 1985.
Implementation is under way on most project components, and
construc:ion work is well advanced for the telecommunications, electricity,
roads, water supply, Luxor airport terminal, and the hotel training school
components. Contracts have been signed for all studiea and work by
consultants is progressing satisfactorily. The Luxor Hotel, the Nefertari
Guesthouse, and the Cairo Museum are the three major components which have
experienced unacceptably long delays in the past. Major problems and
issues have recently been solved, and imple'uentation is now proceeding
under revised conditions. Coordination auong responsible agencies
continues to present some difficulties, although these have been reduced by
recent measures to strengthen the project unit staff.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29,
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project was delayed initially but is now progressing
satisfactorily. Commissioning and start-up of the main plant facilities
should be completed by May 1983. The Ras Bakr component is scheduled to be
completed in August 1983, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 1983.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - USt37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US!35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Slow decision-making by EEA delayed the start of construction by
about one year but good progress in construction and procurement has
increased the possibility of completing the project on schedule. EEA s
rate of return is well below the agreed level, and measures to improve
EEA's financial situation are being discussed with the authorities.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
Progress is satisfactory. Construction of the Cairo abattoir has
been completed and construction of the Alexandria abattoir has commenced.
The credit component through the three participating banks is virtually
committed.
Ln. No. 1804-ECT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is almost completely committed
and US$42.6 million has been disbursed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Ln. No. 1842-ECT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985.
After a change in ownership structure, NIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its operations. Disbursements have been slow: only US$3.2
million has been disbursed; MIDB has recently revised its operation
forecast for 1983 and, as a result, expects to commit a substantial portion
of the loan by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1849-ErGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: May 12, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Because of prolonged negotiations over the legal status of the two
beneficiaries of the loan, project effectiveness was delayed for a year and
a half. Procurement is now proceeding satisfactorily; and at Rakta, all
the major packages have been awarded.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
The project goal of providing for the supply of natural gas to
about 160,000 households is currently expected to be reached by March 1984,
about four months behind the original target date. Considering the early
difficulties and the late start, this represents a significant improvement
in performance over the past 18 months. Tne average gas price for
household sales is expected to reach the target level after all the
premises are converted and customers switch to gas.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Satisfactory progress is being made and no major problems are
envisaged. Although disbursements are currently below appraisal estimates
due to initial start-up delays, significant improvements are expected with
disbursements taking place against recently concluded contracts.
Ln. No. 1886-ECT - Third Power Project; US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-ECT,
US' 120 million of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date; July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in the execution of the Shoubrah El Kheima Power Station
is satisfactory. However, the Aswan II component is about 14 months behind
schedule. EEA's rate of return is well below tuie agreed level, and
measures to improve EEA's financial situation are being discussed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US$25
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 13, 1981; Llosing
Date: December 31. 1983.
The seismic surveys and related interpretation work included in
the project have been essentially completed. Five exploration wells have
been drilled so far and two more are currently being drilled. Two of the
wells have resulted in discoveries of gas and oil. Appraisal drilling and
reservoir studies aimed at firming up the reserves are ongoing. A plan for
bringing gas from the project area into production is currently under study.
Cr. No. 1083-ECT - New Land Development Project; SDR 60.9 million (US$80
million) of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
Development works on Phase I (7,500 feddans) started in July 1982,
and the work will be accelerated after Lhe arrival of the ordered
construction equipment. The design and tender documents for Phase II
(17,000 feddans) are progressing satisfactorily and are expected to be
completed in April 1983. Field trials continue on schedule.
Cr. No. llll-EGT - Fish Farming Development Project; SDR 11 million (USt14
million) of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date:  January 25, 1982;  Closing
Date; December ;1, 1986.
Progress remains slow with respect to pond construction at Maryut
and implementation of the fish farm credit component. The contract for
pumping equipment has been awarded and tendering is in progress for pump
station construction. Delays in recruitment of consulcants have impeded
effective functioning of the project implementation unit. The Project
Director is planning to visit Washington in mid-April for consultations on
these matters, and an IDA supervision mission is scheduled late April.
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project; US$64 million Loan of
July 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date; December 28, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1986.
The technical assistance contract has been signed, and procurement
action is under way. The other components of the first stage
rehabilitation program, namely the KfW-financed rehabilitation of the old
Demag rolling mills and the USSR-supplied equipment packages, have
experienced moderate delays in the procurement stages; these delays are not
expected to have any substantial effect on the overall implementation of
Hadisolb's rehabilitation program.



- 35 -                         ANX1
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Cr. 1156-EGT - Beheira Provincial Potable Water Supply Project; SDR 46.1
milTion (US$56.6 million) of November 25, ,981; Etfect..ven_ss Date: A-ril
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
All but two small treatment plants in the Governoldte of Beheira
are now operated by the Beheira Water Company (BWC),and the company's
distribution services have been extended to most of the major towns.  BWC
is carrying out various measures to improve service. Out of 27 contracts,
one has been awarded, the award of five others (supply of pipes, meters,
chlorination equipment, extension of treatment plants and new chlorination
buildings) is under way, and bids are being invited for a further five.
Consultants are assisting the Borrower (the National Organization for
Potable Water and Sanitary Drainage - NOPWASD) in engineering, tender
evaluation and supervision of works. Engagement of management consultants
for the second phase of assistance to BWC in organization and finance is
under way. An updated proposal is being prepared for further discussions
with NOPWASD. BWC is planning to initiate shortly a first step tariff
increase in major towns in the governorate where water supply improvements
have already taken place.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - Technical Assistance Project; SDR 5.7 million (US$6.9
million) of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: January 15, 1982; Closing
Date; December 31, 1987.
Progress is satisfactory. The Ministry of Irrigation has
finalized a contract for employment of consultants (Harza Engineering), and
has begun staffing the Project Preparation Unit. The Ministry of Land
Reclamation has selected consultants and is now negotiating a contract.
Ln. No. 2041-EGT - Telecommunications III Project; US$64 million Loan of
August 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 28, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project is at the procurement stage. ARENTO is in the process
of preparing detailed plans and has issued bid invitations for line items.
Ln. No. 2074-ECT - Development Industrial Bank V Project; USt120 million
Loan of January 12, 1982;  Effectiveness Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Progress is satisfactory: US$45.3 million has been committed and
US$14 million has been disbursed.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 2103-EGT - Abu Qir Gas Development Project; US$90 million Loan of
May 3, 1982; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
After initial delays, work is now in progress for the installation
of the offshore platforms.  Drilling operations are expected to begin in
April 1983. Bids for the LPG plant, the major component of the onshore
facilities, are being analyzed and a contract is expected to be awarded in
June 1983, approximately 12 months later than estimated at appraisal.
Procurement of other major items is under way and the project is expected
to be completed by December 1984, as estimated at appraisal.
Ln. No. 2176-EGT - Creater Cairo Urban Development Project; US$59 million
Loan of October 26, 1982; Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1983; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987.
The loan became effective on February 16, 1983, and implementation
is gathering momentum. A substantial portion of the detailed designs are
complete. Some of the key advisors have been appointed and the procurement
process has been initiated.
Ln. 2243-EGT - Agroindustries II Project; US$81.2 million Loan of April 4,
1983; Effectiveness Date: (not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1987.
Action on effectiveness is under way.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Government to               Twenty months (February 1979 to
prepare the project:                       November 1980)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:        Roads and Bridges Authority (RBA)
Cc) Project first identified:                 October 1978
gd) Date of Bank appraisal mission:           November 1980
Ce) Date of Bank updating mission:            February 1983
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:       May 1983
Cg) Planned date of effectiveness:            November 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. By April 30 of each year, RB& to submit annual road maintenance programs
including physical targets, maintenance equipment and staffing needs, and
estimated funding requirements to the Bank for review (para. 48).
2. R2BA to submit a training program to tile Bank by June 30, 1984 for its
comments, and to implement the program in accordance with a schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (para_ 50).
3. RBA to review its road safety and traffic control program regularly with
the Bank (para. 51).



t^'tls~~~~~~~~~:o ;:-
/   /             (tX   5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JVr  A  I 
2                  f e~~~~ s r 0 , al   \  
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT 
ROAD MAINTENANCE                    D v s I, rt
MAIN RCAD NETWORK.:e
Othr MmRoo&               7 ;W 
_- hnowul Ikur      |  |  I
lWES  so -  o    IS' O  11    )
MILES
t^<J~~~WtI>AZAtI s   MDg W!E8_-
|AfRAB REPBl Mo   K _ _*
F E G YP T     i t      __i                      S^
A 0C1w                  ,___                      D_
-   58ua --S                          Z     #                 ,  



