OFFICIAL        LOAN NUMBER 2330 EGT
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Road Maintenance Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2330 EGT
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       4   /-                , 1983, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the term "RBA" means the Roads and Bridges Authority,
a public authority established and operating under the Borrower's
Law No. 60 of 1971.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between     the Borrower and   the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to fifty-nine thousand eight hundred fifty dollars
($59,850).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall detarmine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall, pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum ' -r each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum aboN :he Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For t%e Interest Period commencing June 1, 1983 the
interest rate shall be 10.47% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest Period" means the six-month period com-
mencing on each date specified in Section 2.08 of
this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.


﻿-3-
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in     (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii) "Qualified  Borrowings" means:   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause RBA to carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause
RBA to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Without limitation on the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause and enable RBA: (i) to carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with annual programs setting forth physical targets,
equipment and staffing needs and estimated funding requirements
and to furnish each such program to the Bank for its review and
comments, not later than two months before the beginning of the
year covered by it, and (ii) to ensure the timely availability of
staff and maintenance equipment required for the carrying out of
said part in accordance with such programs.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause RBA: (a) to prepare,
with the assistance of the consultants referred to in Section
3.02 hereof, and to furnish to the Bank for its comments, by
June 30, 1984, a program for the carrying out of Part B of the
Project, including the budgetary requirements thereof; and (b)
after reviewing the Bank's comments thereon, to carry out such
program in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the
Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause RBA: (a) to review
regularly with the Bank the implementation of RBA's current
action plan for the improvement of road safety and control; and
(b) to coordinate, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
procurement of equipment and installation works provided under
Part C of the Project with progress in the implementation of such
plan.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause RBA to furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿- 5 -
(b) The Borrower shall cause RBA: (i) to maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) to enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any records
and documents relevant to the Project; and (iii) to furnish to
the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the


﻿- 6 -
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause RBA to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices its operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) Without limitation on the foregoing, the Borrower shall
cause RBA: (i) to maintain separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditures; (ii)
to retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all records
(contracts,  orders,  invoices,   bills,  receipts  and   other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditures; and (iii) to enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.


﻿- 7 -
(c) The Borrower shall cause RBA: (i) to have the accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditrres and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section nq to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have been
used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) to
furnish  to the Bank    such other information concerning said
separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof
as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause RBA to undertake
regular axle load surveys over a period of two years, starting
in July 1984.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date     Le   e     hi, 19 V, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Investment and International
Cooperation or the Under Secretary for International Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Investment and
International Cooperation
(International Finance Department)
8 Adly Street
Cairo, Egypt


﻿-8-
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY OF INVESTMENT           GAFEC UN 348
AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION    INVEST UN 92235
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States -of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By               A  u4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Equipment and            19,300,000        100% of foreign
spare parts                               expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory) and 80%
of other local
expenditures
(2) Consultants'                800,000        85%
services
(3) Fellowships                200,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Fee                          59,850        Amount due under
Section 2.05 of
this Agreement
(5) Unallocated               3,640,150
TOTAL              24,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com--
pliance with the policy of the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan
shall not be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of items in any Category decreases or increases, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such Category as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such
reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce
the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditure for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Road Maintenance
A two-year program for maintenance of roads under the juris-
diction of RBA, including the provision of road maintenance
equipment and spare parts.
Part B:   Training
Upgrading of the training capabilities of RBA, including the
formulation of training programs, the provision of training
fellowships and the improvement of existing installations, work-
shops, liboratories and training aids.
Part C:   Traffic Safety and Control
Provision of a new sign workshop, a computer based data
processing system for traffic counting and traffic control and
counting equipment, and installation and equipping of fixed and
mobile weigh stations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1988
through   June 1, 2003                     800,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                 0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                0.90
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                       1.00
before maturity


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Spare parts for road maintenance equipment required under
Part A of the Project shall be grouped so as to permit bulk pro-
curement consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices.
3.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the
case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland


﻿- 15 -
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Egypt
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 16 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Spare parts required under Part A of the Project may be
procured (a) for purposes of standardization, directly from the
suppliers or manufacturers of the equipment for which the spare
parts are needed, or (b) when such spare parts cannot be grouped
into packages estimated each to cost not less than $50,000
equivalent, on the basis of contracts directly negotiated or
awarded after limited international tendering.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and spare
parts, other than those referred to in Part C of this Schedule,
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and


﻿- 17 -
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of fuids
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information ac the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
*   CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a triJe
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         _ day of J UMk ,98
FOR SECRETARY


