Report No. PIC1420
Project Name                   Tanzania-Structural Adjustment Credit I(@)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Public Sector Management
Project ID                     TZPE2821
Borrower                       Government of the United
Republic of Tanzania
Implementing Agencies          Ministry of Finance; Bank of
Tanzania; and
Planning Commission
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Date of Initial PID            December 1994
Date This PID Prepared         March 1997
Environmental Category         U
Project Appraisal Date         March 1997
Projected Board Date           May 1997
Background
1.      Tanzania's macroeconomic performance during the past decade
has been uneven. Growth, driven largely by recovery in agriculture,
has averaged close to 4 percent per annum but inflation has been
high and, since 1992, the increase in budgetary deficits has made
it even more difficult to achieve stability. After declining in the
second half of the 1980s, the incidence of poverty stabilized in
the early 1990s with about 53 percent of the population still below
the poverty line. This indicates that the first round of
liberalization and adjustment launched in 1986 must now be pushed
to the next stage. To raise growth above the 4 percent p.a. average
of the past decade, bring inflation down to single digit levels and
reduce the level of poverty calls for a second generation of
reforms that continue and extend efforts to improve fiscal
management, liberalize the economy and privatize banks and
parastatals.
2.      Over the past year significant progress has been made with
the new government showing a readiness to introduce far reaching
policy measures and to engage with the Bank on a serious dialogue
regarding future measures. The Government's resolve has been
underscored by the successful completion of an IMF-supervised
Shadow Program in June 1996 and the agreement with the Fund on an
ESAF on November 8, 1996.
Project Objectives
3.      The proposed Structural Adjustment Credit is based upon the



Government's Policy Framework Paper, distributed to the Board in
November 1996, and the related Letter of Development Policy which
set out the Government's medium term strategy. This strategy aims
to reduce poverty through macroeconomic stabilization and the
acceleration of economic growth. The principal objectives of the
SAC are to support this strategy by inducing greater efficiency in
the use of fiscal resources, focusing the activities of the state
while enlarging the role of the private sector, decentralizing the
financing and the delivery of social services and continuing the
process of market liberalization. This strategy is in line with
IDA's Country Assistance Strategy Update presented to the Board on
May 16, 1996 and also with the full CAS to be submitted to the
Board with this operation.
Project Description
4.      The SAC would support the efforts of the government elected
in November 1995 to achieve macrostability, growth and poverty
reduction through a reform of public expenditure policies,
accelerated privatization of parastatals, a resolution of the
problems facing the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), which
dominates the banking sector, and measures to remove distortions in
the pricing and marketing of petroleum. These actions, once they
are fully implemented, could result in budgetary savings, a sharp
reduction in inflation, an acceleration in the growth to more than
6 percent per annum over a four-year period, and as a result of
faster growth and improved delivery of social services, a
substantial decline in poverty.
Project Financing
5.      The Credit is expected to be for an amount of SDR 70 Million
(US$100 million equivalent). The proposed Credit will be disbursed
through the Central Bank of Tanzania as Balance of Payments
support. The initial tranche of US$40 million equivalent, including
the allocation from the IDA reflows, will be available upon Credit
effectiveness upon completion of specified actions. The Credit will
be on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity with a 10-year
grace period.
Links to IDA's Lending Program
6.      The SAC addresses policy areas that build on intensive
operational and analytical work done in the context of several
recent operations such as the Financial Institutions Development
Project and the Parastatal and Public Sector Reform Project. The
SAC will capitalize upon and extend the agreements reached through
the PFP/ESAF negotiations. The SAC emphasizes policies, while the
complementary work of capacity building and detailed institutional
engineering is being done as a part of several other ongoing
operations.
Project Benefits
7.      Implementation of the reform program will permit an increase
- 2 -



in real growth to 5-6 percent a year, by improving macrostability,
resource mobilization and allocative efficiency. These will set the
stage for a further reduction of poverty. By increasing
expenditures on programs which benefit the poor, it will also
improve the situation of the disadvantaged directly.
Project Risks
8.      The chief risk with the program is a failure of government
commitment and the inability to implement the program fully.
Contact Point:                    Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4,1997
- 3 -



