Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7 127-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
fNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 93.2 MILLION
OF WHICH SDR 2.8 MILLION HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED
FROM IDA REFLOWS
TO
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
May 7, 1997
Country Department for Tanzania
Macroeconomics 2, AFTM2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30 (FY96 or 1995/96 = July 1, 1995 to June 30, 1996)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
Interbank Market mid-rate: US$ 1.(00 = T Sh 605 (February 28, 1997)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT           Bank of Tanzania
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DEO           District Education Officer
DMO           District Medical Officer
ESAF          Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP           gross domestic product
IMF           International Monetarv Fund
LPG           liquified petroleum gas
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
NASACO        National Shipping Agencies Corporation
NBC           National Bank of Commerce
O&E           Organizational and Efficiency (Review)
PER           Public Expenditure Review
PSRC          Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
RPFB          Rolling Plan and Forvard Budget
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
TCFB          Tanzania Central Frcight Bureau
THA           Tanzania Harbours Authority
TIPER         Tanzanian Italian Petroleum Refinery Company
TPDC          Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
TRA           Tanzania Revenue Authority
TRC           Tanzania Railways Corporation
TTCL          Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd.
Vice President      : Callisto Madavo
Director               James W. Adams
Technical Manager   : Roger Grawe
Task Team Leader    : Shahid Yusuf
Economists          : Zafar Ahmed, Albert Agbonyitor,
Allister Moon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 93.2 MILLION
OF WHICH SDR 2.8 MILLION HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED FROM IDA
REFLOWS TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
SUMMARY ........................................
I.   INTRODUCTION    ................................                           I
11.  RECENT  ECONoMIC   Di EVELOPIENITS ..........2.. .... ........... ..... .......................... 2
Policy Priorities                 .............................. 3
III. PROPOSED SAC PROGC)RAM                             ........................... 5
Public  Expenditure  Management ..............................          6
Social  Sector  Issues                               .............................. 7
Parastatal Sector Reform .......    ..................... .  ..... 1.  
Banking Sector Reforms ....................... ..........              1 3
Petroleum Sector Liberalization.                ................................... 16
IV.   DISBURSEMENT   ................................                          16
V. COFINANCING.                                          ................................ 17
VI. SAC BOARI) AND) TRANCiHF CONDITIONS          ................................... 17
Tranche Conditions               ................................... 17
VI. BENEFITS AN) RISKS                   ................................ 20
VII.  RECOMMENDATION                                     ................................ 21
Annex A: Policy Matrix
Annex B: Letter of Development Policy
Annex C: Tanzania - Social Indicators
Annex D: Tanzania at a Glance
Annex E: Tanzania - Key Economic Indicators
Annex F: Tanzania - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex G: Tanzania - Balance of Payments
Annex H: Tanzania - Status of Bank Group Operations
This operation was prepared by a team led by Shahid Yusuf (Lead Specialist and Task Tean
Leader), AFTM2 and including Albert Agbonyitor, Zafar Ahmed, Sandra Hadler, Allister
Moon, Anna Muganda, Kathryn Rivera (AFTM2); Gerard Byam (AFTP 1); Charles Griffin
(AFTHI); Minneh Karanja Kane (LEGAF), Paul Vandenheede, Soheyla Mahmoudi
(LOAAF); Luke Haggarty  (PRDFP); Eric  Daffern  (IENOG); Andrew  Feltenstein
(Consultant); Khaled Sherif (EC2CO).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit Summary
Beneficiary:    United Republic of Tanzania
Project Task ID:    TZ-PE-2821
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
IDA Amount:    SDR 93.2 million (US$128.9 million equivalent) of which SDR
2.8 million have been allocated from IDA reflows.
Terms:     Standard IDA terms: 40 years maturity with a 10-year grace
period.
Co-financing:    Kingdom of Norway (NOK 25 million).
Disbursement:    The proposed Credit will be disbursed through the Bank of
Tanzania. The initial tranche of SDR 38.95 million including the
allocation from IDA reflows will be available upon Credit
effectiveness once specified actions have been taken.
Background:    The  Structural  Adjustment  Credit is  based  upon  the
Government's Policy Framework Paper, distributed to the Board
in November 1996, and the related Letter of Development Policy
which set out the Government's medium term strategy. This
strategy seeks to reduce poverty through macroeconomic
stabilization and the acceleration of economic growth.  The
principal objectives of the SAC are to induce greater efficiency in
the use of fiscal resources, focus the activities of the state while
enlarging the role of the private sector, and continue the process
of price and market liberalization. The medium term benefits of
such measures would be higher growth and a resumption of the
trend reduction in poverty. This strategy is in line with IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy Update presented to the Board on
May 16, 1996 and also with the FY97 CAS submitted to the
Board with this operation.
Description:    The SAC will support the efforts of the government elected in
November 1995 to achieve macrostability, growth and poverty
reduction through a reform of public expenditure policies,
efficient provision of social services, accelerated privatization of
parastatals, a resolution of the problems facing the National Bank
of Commerce (NBC), and measures to remove distortions in the



ii
pricing and marketing of petroleum. These actions, once fully
implemented, should result in budgetary savings, and contribute
to a sharp reduction in inflation, an acceleration in the growth to
more than 6 percent per annum over a four-year period, and
reflecting improved delivery of social services, a substantial
decline in poverty.
Rationale for IDA
Involvement:    The SAC addresses policy areas that build on intensive work done
in the context of several recent operations such as the Financial
Institutions Development Project and the Parastatal and Public
Sector Reform Project. The SAC will capitalize upon and extend
the agreements reached through the PFP/ESAF negotiations. The
SAC emphasizes policies, whereas capacity building and detailed
institutional engineering is being done as a part of several other
ongoing operations.
Government
Commitment:      Over the past year significant progress has been made with the
new government showing a readiness to intensify policy measures
and to engage with the Bank on a serious dialogue regarding
future  measures.   The  Government's  resolve  has  been
underscored by the successful completion of an IMF staff-
monitored Program in June 1996 and an agreement with the Fund
on an ESAF program, which was approved by the Fund's Board
on November 8, 1996.
Benefits:    Implementation of the reform program will permit an increase in
real growth to 5-6 percent a year, by improving macrostability,
resource mobilization and allocative efficiency. These will help to
reduce poverty further.
Risks:    The chief risks faced by the program are a weakening of the
Government's commitment and its inability to mobilize the needed
implementation capacitv.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 93.2 MILLION
OF WHICH SDR 2.8 MILLION HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED
FROM IDA REFLOWS
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This memorandum seeks approval to extend a SDR 93.2 million Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC) to Tanzania. The SAC would support the efforts of the Government elected in
November 1995 to achieve macrostability, growth and poverty reduction through a reform of
public expenditure policies, the efficient provision of social services, accelerated privatization of
parastatals, a resolution of the problems facing the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), which
dominates the banking sector, and measures to remove distortions in the pricing and marketing of
petroleum. These actions, when fully implemented, could result in improved allocative efficiency
that could raise growth to more than 6 percent per annum over a four-year period, and as a result
of faster growth and improved delivery of social services, bring about a substantial decline in
poverty. They will also relieve budgetary pressures and further dampen inflation. Proceeds from
the Credit would go towards filling external financing gaps, wvhich will remain even after the recent
Paris Club debt rescheduling, and expected disbursements from existing and new pledges of aid
from donors.
2.     The preparation of this project commenced in 1994 with an identification of the key
components. However, in early 1995 it was decided to defer further preparatory work until the
Government was able to delineate fully its reform proposals and confirm its commitment to their
implementation. During the past 16 months significant progress has been made, with the new
government beginning to implement a well formulated program that should enable the country to
pursue vigorously its economic and social goals.  The measures taken thus far include:
restructuring of the NBC, including reduction of staff and branch closures, together with public
confirmation of the Government's intent to divide the bank into three entities and aggressively
pursue options for divestiture; divestiture of about 150 parastatals, retrenchment of 60,000 civil
servants; initial steps to decentralize the provision of social services, improvement in revenue effort
following the creation of the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA); and progress towards
harmonizing the tariff regime between Mainland Tanzania and Zanzibar.
3.     The Government's resolve to pursue reforms with determination was underscored by the
successful completion of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) staff-monitored program covering
January to June 1996, that reversed the deterioration in key macroeconomic indicators. This
served as the background for the agreement with the Fund on an Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility (ESAF) program through FY99, approved on November 8, 1996. The IMF's midterm
review of the first annual arrangement of the ESAF program in March/April 1997 confirms that
performance remains on track. In several respects, the Government has met the targets with
comfortable margins. Real GDP growth has risen to almost 5 percent, inflation has declined to 14
percent as against 23 percent in June 1996, gross official reserves had risen to 16 weeks of imports
by end-December 1996, and there was a stronger than programmed tightening of the fiscal stance.



2                                                                       Tanzania SAC
The successful outcome of the Paris Club debt rescheduling in January 1997, corroborates
international endorsement of the program.
II. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
4.    In early 1986, the Government of Tanzania embarked on an adjustment program to
dismantle the system of pervasive economic controls and encourage more active participation of the
private sector in the economy. The program included a comprehensive package of policies, which
reduced the budget deficit and improved monetary control, substantially depreciated the overvalued
exchange rate, liberalized the trade regime, removed most price controls, eased restrictions on the
marketing of agricultural products, and liberalized interest rates. The Government also launched
programs to rehabilitate transport infrastructure (roads, railways and ports) and to strengthen
agricultural research and extension services. The economy responded positively during the second
half of the 1980s to the reform program and the accompanying increased availability of external
resources, with an acceleration of GDP growth, higher production of food, some increase in the
exports of traditional crops and a surge in nontraditional exports.  However, the evidence
accumulating in the first half of the 1 990s, pointed to a flagging of the earlier momentum and the
need to broaden and deepen reforms efforts.
5.    In the first half of the 1990s, Tanzania recorded an average GDP growth rate of about 4
percent, largely on account of continuing recovery in agricultural production that started in the
mid-I 980s. However, the gains in poverty reduction that were achieved in the late 1980s have not
been sustained and, in fact, there are signs of slippage. The latest surveys indicate that 51 percent
of the rural population lives below the poverty line. This is largely because population increase
has remained high at close to 3 percent, agricultural investment is low and the supply of
productivity promoting social services has stagnated.
6.     Between FY92 and FY95, Tanzania faced serious fiscal problems arising from the gap
between stagnant revenues and public expenditures swollen by large outlays on administration.
The quasi-fiscal deficit generated by problems and inefficiencies affecting the parastatal sector and
weaknesses in the banking system aggravated the situation. The fiscal deficit, after grants, rose to
5.8 percent of GDP in FY95. However, by FY96 it had fallen to 3.3 percent of GDP. The tighter
fiscal stance and a slower growth of the money supplv have significantly reduced inflationary
pressures.
7.     These are encouraging developments. Nevertheless, Tanzania's overall growth rate does
not adequately mirror the level of aggregate investment, at about 30 percent of GDP, this is high
compared to other low and middle-income countries. This investment reflects the large volume of
foreign capital Tanzania receives from the donor community through and outside the budget that
finances public investment. When juxtaposed with Tanzania's growth performance, it highlights
the following areas of concern. First, the paucity of public investment in infrastructure has
depressed the productivity of private and donor financed investment. Second, counterpart funds
are being spread over too many projects, slowing implementation across the board. Third, returns
on investment have been reduced even further by high real interest rates and resource misallocation
arising from the problems afflicting the banking sector and the chronic inefficiency of the public
utilities and remaining parastatal enterprises. Fourth, persistent inflation and some lingering price
distortions have compounded the problems of resource misallocation and discouraged the
development of the private sector. Finally, the economy has registered no significant gains in
productivity. Hence, the growth and poverty-reducing opportunities inherent in the convergence of



Tanzania SAC                                                                           3
Tanzania's sectoral productivity levels closer to those of more developed countries, remain to be
realized.
Policy Priorities
8.     This brief assessment of Tanzania's economic performance underscores five priorities,
which must define policy actions during 1996-98. These are:
(i)    achieving fiscal balance, improving the management of budgetary expenditures,
and taking steps to change the mix of these expenditures so as to favor priority
projects, particularly those in the social sectors and infrastructure;
(ii)   increasing the involvement of local stakeholders and the private sector in the
provision of social services;
(iii)   divesting parastatal enterprises at an accelerated pace and preparing the public
utilities for pivatization or other contractual arrangements involving the private
sector in order to increase efficiency and service delivery levels;
(iv)    strengthening the banking sector;
(v)    completing the process of market liberalization that commenced a decade ago.
9.     Fiscal balance. Steps to regain fiscal balance are essential for macroeconomic stability.
This calls for a two-pronged effort to augment revenues and trim administrative expenses.
Tanzania is strengthening tax administration with funding and technical assistance from the Bank,
the Fund and various donors. It has established the TRA and given it full support: since it was
established in July 1996, TRA has consistently met the monthly revenue targets set for it. It is also
eliminating a number of tax loopholes. If successful, this should push the revenue/GDP ratio from
the 15 percent in FY96 to 16.9 percent in FY99. An effort to contain current expenditures has
been underway for almost two years. The Civil Service has already effected a substantial
reduction in numbers. A second round of downsizing for FY97 is ongoing and an extensive O&E
review of the central ministries will be completed by October 1997. Although the immediate
budgetary gains are modest, the O&E study will guide the rationalization of the ministerial
structures and salaries so as to achieve greater control over administrative costs. Strengthening
budgetary management and information systems will also contribute to the efficiency with which
fiscal resources are utilized. In addition, a reduction in the public sector borrowing requirement
together with lower interest rates will reduce domestic debt servicing obligations that currently
absorb a sizable proportion of revenues.
10.    Social services and private sector investment. An acceleration of the growth rate, which
will require significant gains in factor productivity, calls for increased involvement of the private
sector. To induce this, the Government must intensify measures initiated in the latter half of the
1 980s to provide an environment more conducive to private investment. For instance, the increase
in agricultural yields and off-farm activities is a function of investment in education, rural roads,
power, agricultural research and extension services. Without advances in agricultural technology,
returns to education are likely to be low. Likewise, the commercialization of farming, planting of
cash crops, the spread of export-oriented horticulture, and greater use of modem inputs is linked to
the development of a good marketing and communications infrastructure.



4                                                                          Tanzania SAC
11.    Substantial resources will be required to attain these goals and part of these must come
from the public sector. Greater private sector participation is crucial in view of the fiscal
constraints facing Government and the proposed reduction in the size of government and scope of
public sector activities. Employment by the private sector will become far more important, which
makes it essential to ensure that the provision of education is geared to demand, and at the same
time the goals of poverty alleviation are given due priority. This entails a bigger role for the
private sector in the area of secondary and tertiary schooling, with the Government putting more
effort into improving the quality of primary education through decentralization and greater local
involvement in financing as well as in monitoring.
12.    Parastatal divestiture. The potential fiscal benefits to be derived from the continued
divestiture of public enterprises and the creation of a competitive environment will be of equal
importance. The gains can take four forms: there are the upfront receipts from the sale of assets;
where the enterprises liquidated or privatized are incurring losses, there are benefits from the
decline in claims on the budget and calls on the banking sector-or other public bodies-that
translate into quasi-fiscal deficits; divestiture can also improve economic efficiency by freeing up
idle or underutilized assets and directing them to more productive parts of the economy; and
increasing competition in areas such as telecommunications, can improve the quality of services,
reduce costs and stimulate the efficiency of publicly owned entities. Where outright sale is
infeasible and the liquidation of a loss-making enterprise is the only option, this must be pursued
just as vigorously.
13.    The above measures will have the additional advantage of helping Tanzania to generate
public savings. Comparative experience suggests that the public sector can play a significant role
in mobilizing resources during the early stages of development. It is apparent from Tanzania's
recent performance that the limited supply of development finance from the central government has
been one of the major reasons for the modest pace of growvth
14.    Banking reform. Both savings mobilization as well as the efficient allocation of capital,
will be helped by a continued restructuring and deepening of the banking system. Arriving at an
effective solution to NBC's long-standing problems has the highest priority. This publicly owned
bank accounts for 63 percent of deposits and 60 percent of total bank lending. It is the basis of
Tanzania's nationwide settlement system and is the main source of commercial banking services in
the rural areas. Until recently, two-thirds of NBC's portfolio was non-performing, mainly because
of past lending to parastatals and cooperatives. The bank was also incurring operating losses in
spite of substantial reductions in staff, closing of several branches, and large spreads between rates
on loans and deposits. While losses have been stemmed as a result of drastic measures taken over
the past year, the bank's condition remains unsustainable.
15.    NBC's problems have placed additional burdens on the economy.  First, the losses
incurred by the bank and the cost of restructuring have direct and quasi-budgetary implications.
Second, the interest rate spreads that serve to bolster NBC's current finances-and widen the
margins of other banks-greatly increase the costs of banking services, apart from depressing
private investment. Third, NBC's plight has deleterious consequences for the growth of financial
savings and their efficient allocation even allowing for some recent financial broadening.
Weaknesses in the financial sector, coupled with the inadequacy of skills, have contributed to the
slow growth of the productive sectors of the economy, especially manufacturing, during the first
half of the nineties. It has also limited access to credit in the farming sector, which reduces the
probability that agriculture can maintain recent growth rates of 5 percent or more.



Tanzania SAC                                                                     5
16.    Market liberalization. Although substantial progress has been made in liberalizing prices
and markets, there is still room for additional gains, particularly in the petroleum sector. State
control over prices and imports of petroleum products, together with the maintenance of a small-
sized refinery (50 percent owned by the Government and 50 percent by AGIP (Rome), which also
manages the operation), have been the source of sizable distortions, the removal of which will
eliminate subsidies to the refinery and the costs imposed by the existing arrangement on all
consumers.
III. PROPOSED SAC PROGRAM
17.    Objectives and link with the FY97 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The SAC will
be building on a second round of reforms that commenced in the early 1990s but have yet to be
fully implemented. The Government did begin strengthening the banking infrastructure needed for
rapid development with the support from an IDA credit but has not succeeded in creating a viable
NBC. Recognizing the problems and inefficiency of the parastatal sector and the concomitant
budgetary drain, it began to restructure and privatize state-owned enterprises in 1993 with
encouraging results. More recently, President Mkapa's Government has broadened and intensified
the scope of reforms focusing increasingly on the large public utilities.  In addition, the
Govemnment has demonstrated a strong commitment to progressively improve the delivery of social
services to augment the supply of human capital and reduce the level of poverty. The principal
objectives of the SAC are to support greater efficiency in the use of fiscal resources, to more
narrowly focus the activities of the state, while enlarging the role of the private sector, and to
continue the process of price and market liberalization. These goals are also central to the CAS for
Tanzania over the medium term. The full and effective implementation of the SAC conditions are
necessary for the countrv to accelerate growth, reduce the incidence of poverty and move to a
higher growth scenario.
18.    Scope and design of the SAC. The proposed SAC will concentrate on five areas which
conform to the priorities outlined in the CAS update presented to the Board in April 1996 and
elaborated in the FY97 CAS that is being submitted concurrently with this operation. These are:
(a)    public expenditure management
(b)    social sector rationalization
(c)    divestiture of parastatals
(d)    banking reforms
(e)    petroleum sector issues.
19.    The SAC will comprise five tranches. The first tranche of SDR 36.15 million together
with Tanzania's FY97 IDA reflow allocation of SDR 2.8 million will be released when the cross-
sectoral conditions of effectiveness are met. The remaining four will be floating tranches to be
released when specified sectoral conditions are met for: (i) development expenditures and the
social sector program (SDR 18.1 million); (ii) divestiture of NBC (SDR 18.1 million); (iii)
parastatal reform (SDR 10.85 million), and (iv) petroleum sector liberalization (SDR 7.2 million).
20.    Macroeconomic framework. The actions proposed under the SAC, if implemented,
would change the overall budget balance after grants from a deficit of 3.3 percent of GDP in FY96
to a surplus of 1.6 percent of GDP in FY99 and substantially improve allocative efficiency
throughout the economy. The analytical work done in connection with the SAC indicates, that each
of the measures proposed will increase medium term growth by one half to one percent.



6                                                                       Tanzania SAC
Cumulatively, the effects of greater development spending, banking reform and increased allocative
efficiency should gradually raise GDP growth rates to 6 percent or more by the year 2000.
Public Expenditure Management
21.    The Government's fiscal position strengthened during the second half of FY96 as a result
of improved revenue collection and enhanced expenditure control. The trend has continued during
the first half of FY97 under the ESAF program. The recurrent expenditures/GDP ratio declined by
2 percent to nearly 16 percent in FY96 and is projected at 14.6 percent in FY97. Retrenchment of
4,000 civil servants, in addition to the 60,000 already removed from the payroll, was completed by
end April 1997. As a condition of Board, the Government will maintain its fiscal stance as
reflected in an overall fiscal balance of 0.9 percent of GDP (after grants) for FY97 on an
annualized basis as derived from Treasury Flash Reports (para. 71a).
22.    The areas where future action is needed to enhance the efficiency of fiscal management can
be broadly classified under three headings. First, there are issues relating to the level of aggregate
expenditure.  Second, there is the composition of expenditure.  Third, in order to sustain
improvements in both of these areas, there is need for improvements in the budget process and in
budgetary management.
23.    Aggregate budget management.  The overall deficit before grants amounted to 4.9
percent of GDP in FY96 and is projected at 2.3 percent in FY97. Further cuts in the level of the
deficit are necessary for three reasons: (i) to sustain the decline in inflation, which had fallen to 14
percent in the third quarter of FY97; (ii) to reduce interest rates that will have growth stimulating
effects; (iii) to lessen dependence on external financing of the Government expenditure that is
evidently not sustainable in the longer term. Therefore, the Government intends to trim the overall
budget deficit before grants to 1. I percent in FY99 in line with the ESAF program.
24.    Part of the reduction in the overall deficit will be achieved through growth in domestic
revenue. Implementation of plans to further strengthen tax administration and introduce the VAT
(Value Added Tax) in 1998 should make it possible to achieve a revenue/GDP ratio of 17 percent
by FY99.
25.   In order to achieve its budgetary targets, several expenditure rationalization measures have
been identified in the Public Expenditure Review (PER) completed in FY97 and these will be
implemented during the course of the next two years, reinforcing actions taken as part of the SAC.
They include: (i) consolidation of the recurrent and the development budgets; and (ii) measures to
contain the growth of the wage bill by phasing in a system for auditing the payroll. The SAC, in
tum, will focus on the budget process and trimming the development portfolio.
26.    Misallocation at the sectoral level has arisen partly in budget preparation, but also in
budget implementation, as excessive spending has been permitted on some budgetary items, often
further skewing the distribution of resources away from a pattern consistent with overall
objectives. To correct the mix of expenditures, the Government will include provisions for
protecting priority expenditures.
27.    Budget process. Recent steps to improve budget management at the aggregate level have
included the introduction of a cashflow management regime, whereby monthly expenditure is
limited with reference to the previous month's revenue receipts. To be sustainable and consistent



Tanzania SAC                                                                      7
with development of medium term budgetary planning, the present cashflow management system
will evolve further, with improvements in cashflow forecasting, better coordination between fiscal
and monetary authorities, and identification of appropriate guidelines for short term expenditure
adjustment.
28.   The Government has also taken several initiatives in the area of budget management. The
Rolling Plan and Forward Budget (RPFB) initiated in 1993 is an ambitious exercise in medium
term budgetary planning, aiming to develop three-year expenditure projections based on a medium
term macroeconomic framework disaggregated by sector, with some linkage to sector policies and
objectives. Such exercises can be valuable in securing commitment to sector expenditure plans
consistent with realistic aggregate expenditure ceilings and providing a reliable basis for more
detailed planning of public expenditure at the sector level.
29.    Development portfolio. Some reduction in the number of development projects was
achieved in the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget of FY96. However, this trend has not been
continued in the current budget, although it is clear that the development program is seriously
overextended and development spending in FY97 is falling short of targeted levels. During FY98,
the Government will cut the number of donor-funded as well as other projects in the development
budget using criteria specified in the Budget Guidelines for FY98. It will also fully satisfy the
budgetary needs of priority projects.
30.    SAC measures. The SAC will support two measures in order to address the concerns
described above.
(a)    First, the Government will work with donors to screen the project portfolio and
reduce the number of projects from 1,400 down to 800 or less, and within this
identify those projects that will be funded fully during FY98. This will be a
condition for the release of the tranche associated with social sector reform
(para 74a).
(b)    Second, the Government will include a development spending target from domestic
sources of T Sh 20 billion (excluding the Road Fund) for priority sectors, i.e.,
health, education, water, power and transport, as a part of the framework for the
FY98 budget. This is consistent with the ESAF guidelines. Adequate provision
in the Cabinet-approved proposals for development spending will be an
effectiveness condition (para. 73a).
Social Sector Issues
31.    Social sector expenditures.  The social sectors account for a large share of all
government activities and employment but have produced disappointing results since the early
1980s. Recurrent expenditures for education and health have averaged 27 percent of total public
recurrent spending from FY90 through FY95 (or 36 percent, net of debt repayments), which is
equivalent to about 4.3 percent of GDP. If private spending is included, the share of GDP
absorbed by the social sectors doubles to about 8 percent. Teaching and health staff numbered
112,488 and 42,769, respectively in FY95 (a 16 percent increase since 1988, when staff levels
were 101,042 and 32,650). Social sector workers (especially teachers) comprise the vast majority
of local government employees and account for over half of the total civil service. Although civil
service salaries are considered to fall below a "living wage", they absorb 92 percent of central



8                                                                       Tanzania SAC
government spending on primary education and 60 percent of spending on health centers and
dispensaries.
32.    Social sector outcomes and indicators. In spite of outlays on social services that are a
high share of spending relative to Tanzania's neighbors, and with spending allocations that tend to
favor basic services, education and health outcome indicators have been, at best, stagnant for the
past 15 years. After many years of decline, the gross primary enrollment ratio stood at 77.6
percent in 1995 (corresponding to a net enrollment rate-the share of children in ages seven to 13
in primary school-of only 55.4 percent). While secondary school enrollment rates have increased
slowly over the past decade, the gross enrollment rate in 1995 was about 7 percent, one of the
lowest in the world. Infant, child and maternal mortality, life expectancy, and control of the major
communicable diseases have shown little or no improvement over the past decade.  Unless
reversed, these trends will jeopardize Tanzania's grovuth prospects and impede gains in welfare.
33.    Strategy for change. Budgetarv stringency in the short and medium term will not permit
a large increase in central government spending on social services, and the real possibility exists
that central spending on social services will not even keep up with population growth.
Consequently, the Government faces severe problems in the social sectors that will have to be
solved through intrasectoral shifts in spending, a scaling down of the administrative infrastructure
(particularly at the regional level), and decentralization of responsibilities that transfers some of the
monitoring, fiscal, and managerial functions to the local level and helps promote the efficient
utilization of available resources. Thus, the government's strategy in the social sectors must have
two objectives: to increase the allocative efficiencv of government funding in the social sectors;
and to improve the operating efficiency of government-owned and operated schools, clinics, and
hospitals. At all levels, because of budgetary constraints, the contributions of users will have to
rise, which will require that the Government: (a) give facility level managers the freedom to
manage resources to better serve users; (b) create mechanisms which give users a greater voice in
the provision of local services and their quality; and (c) target available funds to better protect the
poor and vulnerable. Taken together, not only will these changes improve outcomes and equity in
the social sectors, but they are also consistent with Government policy as enunciated in the sector
specific documents it has produced over the past few years, and with its broader Social Sector
Strategy.
34.    Many of these proposals are being piloted in Government schemes under various
programs. With support from the Netherlands and Denmark, the Government has begun to test the
development of district-based education plans and their implementation. With support from IDA,
the Government has developed a pilot program for school-based management by providing a
matching grant to primary schools to implement their school plans, above and beyond regular
recurrent allocations to the schools. This program is active in 135 schools and is slated to expand
to at least 350 schools by 1999. At the secondary level, the Ministry has designed and has begun
to implement a scholarship program to assist girls from poor families to attend lower secondary
school. The girls are chosen at the village level, which has created greater awareness about
opportunities for secondary schooling and the importance of educating girls. About 690 girls are
now supported under the program. This will rise to about 2,500 girls by 1999. Apart from the
effort to develop a village-based scholarship program for girls, this pilot is also giving the
government experience in monetizing and targeting its support to secondary education. In addition,
the National Education Trust Fund has been functioning for the past five years with Norwegian
funding. It provides a source of grant funds to assist non-government secondary schools to expand



Tanzania SAC                                                                       9
or rehabilitate their physical facilities. The Government expects to enlarge this program over the
next few years to increase capacity in lower secondary education.
35.    Private sector role. Private sector providers of social services can offer more cost-
efficient service of higher quality, closely tuned to the market. Since the liberalization of service
provision by private secondary schools (access to public secondary schools was historically
rationed), the supply response has been impressive, helping to raise by several percentage points
Tanzania's extremely low secondary school enrollment rate. Private schools currently account for
more than half of all secondary students (public school places have also expanded). Furthermore,
recent pilot projects initiated by the Government, which provide public resources more directly to
the users of social services rather than through the provision of facilities, are showing encouraging
results.
36.    Links to poverty reduction.  Reducing poverty calls for better and efficient social
services to the poor, who are predominantly in the rural areas. The evidence indicates that the poor
are characterized by having lower educational attainment, particularly secondary education, and
that education, specially for girls, has important externalities by increasing the impact of other
social sector interventions, such as family planning and nutrition programs. Furthermore, the
strategy to increase overall GDP growth depends on increasing productivity in farm and off-farm
activities, which are affected by the quality and quantity of human capital.
37.    Primary education. For years, there has been a broad consensus in Tanzania that the
system of primary education suffers from inadequate and poorly maintained infrastructure, fails to
capitalize on the potential of parents and teachers to reinvigorate the system, and limits
opportunities for students to advance beyond the primary level. The Government has completed
the Basic Education Framework and is in the process of finalizing the Basic Education Master
Plan, which comprehensively address problems in primary education. Based on a review of
sectoral analysis prepared over the past few years, the Government, assisted by donors, will
implement these policy changes.  The changes are expected to create a more innovative,
decentralized, efficient primary school system that broadens opportunities for young Tanzanians.
(a)    Allocative efficiency, equity, and government allocations. Within the context of
constant overall per capita education expenditures, the Government will implement
the Five-Year Budget Plan in the Basic Education Master Plan to reallocate
central government funding so that primary schools gradually increase their share
of recurrent funding from the total education budget. This was approximately 50
percent during FY90-FY95 and 60.4 percent in FY96. As a first step towards
this goal, the allocation will be increased to 64 percent in the FY98 budget
framework. This will be a condition for effectiveness (para. 73b).
(b)    Deployment of teachers and improving the quality of instruction.  The
Government will undertake a study, which will include a concrete, timebound
action plan for implementation, addressing the recruitment, training, deployment,
redeployment, upgrading, and incentives for teachers. The plan will include
details of programs for mapping out the distribution of various grades of teachers
(shifting resources and teachers from districts, where enrollments are high, to
deficit districts), future teacher requirements by regions and districts, and it will
draw up budgets for the remuneration of teachers. This will be a condition for
the social sector tranche release (para. 74b (i).



10                                                                      Tanzania SAC
(c)    Improving the efficacy of the primary school system. The proposed change in
expenditure patterns by the central government to favor primary education will
only have limited impact because of the meager resource base from which the
reallocation will take place, the huge and growing stock of children waiting to go
to school, and the damage done by years of underinvestment at the local level to
maintain and expand infrastructure, furniture, books, and equipment. Reversing
the decline in the sector will, therefore, also depend on whether parents can raise
their contributions to their local schools. For substantial improvements at the
local level to take place, the Government must quickly begin the much-delayed
process of implementing stated government policies to decentralize primary
education and empower teachers and parents to turn the system around. The
Govermment will complete the process of shifting responsibility for the
management of primary schools to the district authorities during the FY98 budget
year. Prior to tranche release, the District Education Officer (DEO), subject to
approval by the ministry responsible for education, and teachers, will be recruited
and employed by the District Council in at least 20 pilot districts; and Central
Government subsidies for education will be converted from line items to block
grants for salaries and all other expenses, in the selected districts based on a
formula agreed upon between the Government and IDA. Also, prior to tranche
release, the Government will prepare a time-bound program to decentralize and
transfer the management of primary schools to legally constituted school
committees. Specific areas to be addressed by such a plan will include: (i)
ownership of primary schools will be shifted to the local authority; (ii) revised
guidelines will be issued for democratically constituted school committees; and
(iii) approval of school plans and/or a school charter will be sought from parents.
These will be conditions for social sector tranche release (paras. 74b (ii) and
(iii).
38.    Tertiary and higher education.  Tertiary education (including technical and higher
education) consumes a large share of the education budget with disappointing outcomes in terms of
the number of graduates, the quality of training, and poor efficiency as reflected in teacher-student
ratios, poor capacity utilization, large commitments to student boarding and welfare and large
wage bills (despite low salaries) due to overstaffing. In particular, the subsector is saddled with
numerous training institutions attached to various government ministries and agencies, including
the parastatal organizations. The Government has recently completed a review of technical and
higher education and training, which is expected to lead to actions to rationalize the sector and
improve its financing, and to release additional resources for basic education. Prior to the release
of the social sector tranche, the Government will complete an action plan for the reform and
rationalization of higher education and technical training (para. 74b (iv).
39.    Primary and preventive health services. In the health sector, as in education, there is
scope for improving the health of the whole population through measures that raise allocative
efficiency. The Ministry of Health has developed a reform strategy that addresses issues in
financing, liberalization of the sector, decentralization, and reallocation of budgets toward public
and preventive health services. The Government will also undertake the following actions to
increase cost recovery and local participation in the provision of health services:
(a)    At district level hospitals and above, a program  will be implemented to
finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to hospitals, prior to the



Tanzania SAC                                                                          11
social sector tranche release (para. 74c (i). This will be done by setting up a
hospital-based revolving fund that is based on a combination of cost sharing and
central government and donor subsidies, with patients covering at least 50 percent
of the cost. This will complement the Government's plan to extend user fees for
curative services at dispensaries and health centers.
(b)    The Government will shift responsibility for the management of district level
services to the district authorities prior to the social sector tranche release
(para. 74c (ii). The District Medical Officer (DMO), with the approval of the
Ministry of Health, and the district level health staff, will be recruited and
employed by the District Council in at least 20 districts. The budget for health
centers and dispensaries will be transferred as block grants to the District
Councils.
(c)    The Government will prepare an Action Plan, prior to the social sector
tranche release, to reduce the life years lost to malaria (para. 74c (iii).
Parastatal Sector Reform
40.    Privatization. The Government has had notable success in the privatization of public
enterprises. To date, it has divested approximately 150 enterprises and by the end of 1997 should
have privatized an additional 25 firms. Thus far, divestiture of seven large parastatal enterprises
has been inhibited in some instances for want of a policy decision on enterprise debt. This is
currently being resolved. The enterprises in question are:
Mbeya Cement
Sugar Development Corporation
Southern Paper Mills (SPM)
Morogoro Polyester
National Milling Corporation (NMC) - all mills to be sold
Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) - all commercial activities to be sold
Tanzania Sisal Authority (TSA) - all commercial activities to be sold
41.    The Government is committed to resolving the debt issue and divesting its holdings in
these large public enterprises as a condition of the parastatal tranche release (para. 75a).
Divestiture will involve going beyond Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to a point of sale.
42.    In addition, the Government will press ahead with its plans to divest the remaining smaller
parastatals. Again, the emphasis will be on full divestiture rather than the use of management
contracts or leases.
43.    Public utilities. Over the 1996-98 period, the Government intends to implement major
restructuring programs for each of the major utilities. The objective is to stimulate efficiency of
the public enterprise sector by increased private sector involvement and requiring parastatals to
operate on the same terms as private sector enterprises. These programs are tailored to the specific
situations of each of the enterprises and include such actions as the divestiture of functions and
increased contracting out of activities to the private sector. In addition, the Government will
require parastatals to remain current on their existing obligations and to repay any outstanding
arrears owed to the Government or other public enterprises over the next three years.



12                                                                      Tanzania SAC
44.    Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd. (TTCL). TTCL is presently the only
provider of basic telephone services in Tanzania. In spite of its monopoly position, TTCL's
finances are weak and it has been unable to make the investments necessary to improve the quality
and range of services delivered. This calls for an increase both in TTCL's efficiency and the level
of competition in telecommunication services. IDA has been working with the Government on a
sector program to liberalize the telecommunications sector as well as to raise the accountability of
TTCL's management, restructure the enterprise so as to promote efficiency, and open the company
to new shareholders. The Government has made some progress in this regard by entering into a
joint venture arrangement for cellular services, and allowing other competitors in this area. It has
also permitted private provision of Internet services and data transmission.
45.    The Government initially moved cautiously on the issue of divestiture, while it reviewed
privatization experience and strengthened the regulatory regime for telecommunications. However,
it has now announced its decision to privatize TTCL and planning for the transaction is now
underway. Prior to effectiveness, the Government will prepare a comprehensive competition
policy for the telecommunications sector (para. 73c). Furthermore, prior to the parastatal
tranche release the Government will: (a) complete any consultations necessary to privatize,
including those with Japanese and Swedish donor agencies that have provided assistance to
the telecommunications sector; (b) select key advisors to carry out the divestiture operation;
and (c) prepare and distribute the Information Memorandum and offer for sale and call for a
first round of bids (para. 75b).
46.    Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA). THA is responsible for operating the port of Dar
es Salaam, which handles the bulk of Tanzania's trade as well as the trade of several landlocked
countries. Historically the efficiency of the port has been quite low, but over the past five years,
the performance of the port has improved considerably, particularly with regard to containerized
traffic, although bottlenecks in freight handling continued to hamper port operations.  The
Government intends to commercialize TEIA and contract out services as much as possible, thereby
attracting private capital and management expertise to increase port competitiveness and level of
services. THA has recently finalized a commercialization study and the Government has agreed to
the "Landlord" port concept, which basically means commercialization or concessioning for all
business activities. The THA has emphasized the need to proceed with privatization in stages to
allow for the upgrading of the various business units in preparation for sale in order to maximize
revenues from private leasing and operation of the facilities. Given the current high performance
of the container terminal, the TIA has decided to begin with this, seeking operators who will invest
private capital in the development of the terminal. Under the terms of the SAC, the Government
will: (a) prior to effectiveness, enter into a contract with consultants to prepare detailed
proposals on the different concession arrangements, including their duration (para 73d); and
(b) prior to tranche release, award concession for the container terminal (para. 75c).
47.    National Shipping Agencies Company Ltd. (NASACO). NASACO, which was created
in early 1973, effectively holds the monopoly on shipping agent services to all ships calling at
Tanzanian ports. NASACO's monopoly position has led to poor service, high prices, unwarranted
diversification and financial mismanagement. For these reasons, the shipping lines have found it
necessary to employ their own staff (within the NASACO organization and at additional cost to the
lines) to look after their interests in order to achieve acceptable levels of operational efficiency.
Under the terms of the SAC, the Government will, prior to the parastatal tranche release,
revoke the current monopoly and entry licensing restrictions for shipping agency services and
allow these services to be open to international competition (para. 75d).



Tanzania SAC                                                                     13
48.    Tanzania Central Freight Bureau (TCFB). TCFB was established and came into full
operation in 1983. The Bureau allocates cargo on any ocean going vessel in respect to goods
shipped from or to any port in Tanzania and regulates the activities of freight forwarders. TCFB's
monopoly has led to complaints from the entire sea trade market, including the shippers and the
shipping lines, that see the TCFB as an unnecessary burden and a high cost bureaucracy rather
than an organization facilitating free trade and transport. In addition, the fee charged (between
2.5-5 percent of freight plus US$10-15 for each bill of lading) is essentially an export tax, which
reduces the incentive to export. The behavior and monopoly position of TCFB is at odds with the
spirit of liberalization that has taken root in Tanzania over the last few years. Prior to tranche
release, the Government will amend the relevant Acts so that neither TCFB nor any other
agency has the exclusive authority to negotiate freight rates or allocate cargo across shipping
lines (para. 75e).
49.    Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC). TRC has been undergoing restructuring and
commercialization since 1989, but its financial condition remains precarious because of the mix of
services it provides and the structure of operations. Prior to Board, the Government will sign a
performance contract with TRC which will include compensation to TRC for unprofitable
branch lines, passenger services and the marine services and an explicit agreement to allow
TRC to close any or all other such unprofitable services (para. 71b). Furthermore, prior to
tranche release, TRC will also complete a divestiture plan for its loss-making Marine Services
Division (including all maintenance and repair shops), which is a separate autonomous entity
with its own financial statement, reach an agreement with the Parastatal Sector Reform
Commission (PRSC) and call for bids (para. 75f).
Banking Sector Reforms
50.    Starting in 1991, the Government of Tanzania introduced a number of banking reforms
including the liberalization of interest rates, passage of the Banking and Financial Institutions Act,
which permitted the entry of private banks, the introduction of a treasury bill auction as part of
Bank of Tanzania's (BOT) efforts to rein in the growth of the money supply through the use of
indirect methods of monetarv control, and the creation of a mechanism for expeditiously recovering
overdue debts. The program also included recapitalization, through the provision of cash and
bonds, of the government-owned NBC and two smaller government-owned commercial banks.
51.    The program's major accomplishment was to deregulate and liberalize the banking system.
More than 10 private banks have been licensed since 1993 and have increased their market share to
30 percent of deposits. However, the initial attempts to restructure the government banks were not
successful. This had two major implications: the first was that the banking industry remains
largely unable to address the borrowing needs of most Tanzanian businesses; and second, BOT's
attempts to use indirect methods of monetary control to reduce excess liquidity were undernined
because NBC continued to operate on minimal spreads, to incur large operational losses (through
1995) and to dictate both interest rate and exchange rate movements.
52.    Although the implementation of the restructuring programs of the People's Bank of
Zanzibar and NBC is incomplete, the SAC would focus on the resolution of problems pertaining to
NBC since it is the main impediment to the development of the sector.
53.    NBC restructuring. The Government's recapitalization of the bank was not completed.
Much of the recapitalization (T Sh 119 billion) was in the form of bonds and some of the interest



14                                                                    Tanzania SAC
on those bonds was not paid. NBC made significant progress with recovery of loans which were
provisioned and covered by the recapitalization bonds, thus compensating for unpaid interest.
Although the NBC Act was amended to allow for sale of 40 percent of government shares, there
was no time-bound strategy to privatize the bank, and experience elsewhere suggests that without
such a strategy, it would be difficult for a bank like NBC to meet capital adequacy requirements.
54.   NBC's restructuring failed for three reasons: (i) slow progress in the reform of the
parastatal sector, which contributed to a deterioration of NBC's portfolio; (ii) NBC's management
continued to make new, or to roll-over existing, loans to non-performing borrowers, thus incurring
even greater losses; and (iii) organizational improvements slowed during 1993. Thus, despite the
recapitalization of 1992/93, NBC remained undercapitalized, with approximately 77 percent of its
portfolio non-performing.
55.   In 1994 the Government reconstituted NBC's Board of Directors and revised its strategy
for NBC's restructuring. Given the bank's economic dominance, liquidation was ruled out. The
revised strategy entailed constraining NBC's operations until it was able to meet prudential
requirements, and placing qualified commercial bankers in key, senior managerial positions
(including Chief Operating Officer) to ensure that there was a change in NBC's banking culture.
NBC was directed to cease lending to non-performing borrowers, a ceiling was imposed on
outstanding loans (irrespective of any subsequent write-offs), 800 staff were retrenched, and a
consulting firm was recruited to undertake a detailed diagnostic evaluation (including a portfolio
review).
56.    The diagnostic evaluation revealed that the extent of NBC's financial difficulties was
worse than envisaged. NBC continued to operate only by mobilizing large sums of deposits, which
were then used to pay expenses. This realization led the new government to focus on the cost
containment and managerial improvement elements of its strategy and to begin preparing plans to
privatize NBC. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance, as the shareholder, entered into a MOU
with NBC, which required the bank to attain break-even status on a six-month cumulative basis by
the end of June, 1996 and to improve credit performance. The MOU called for a reduction of
NBC's core operating expenses by 40 percent and substantial efforts to improve loan collections.
Lending to non-performing borrowers was terminated.  The remedies in the event of non-
compliance were: (1) NBC would be required to cease and desist all lending operations; (2) BOT
would intervene directly in the management of the bank to safeguard depositors' funds; and (3) all
or a portion of NBC's operations would be put up for sale.
57.    NBC's compliance with the MOU was reviewed in August, 1996. The review noted
substantial improvements in NBC's operating procedures, and the bank's concerted efforts to
reduce costs and improve loan recoveries. But the review also raised substantial concerns about
NBC's ability to resume lending to new borrowers and underlined the urgency of pressing ahead
with reorganization and divestiture.
58     The present strategy. The strategy for the reorganization and privatization of NBC has
recently been approved by the Government. The strategy entails creating three subsidiaries of
NBC tentatively titled:  Trade Bank with a network of approximately 10 branches, whose
customers would consist largely of exporters, importers and large corporations; Regional Bank
with one branch in each region to focus on medium to large companies; and Micro-Finance Bank
specializing in small and microenterprise financing and deposit mobilization, principally in the
rural areas. All three institutions would be required to meet capital adequacy requirements (8



Tanzania SAC                                                                      15
percent of risk adjusted assets) and also would be expected to have sufficient capital to absorb
projected losses before being fully licensed. Capital would be sought from non-governmental
investors for all institutions. Investors in Micro-Finance Bank could include donors, who would
contribute to the costs of training, software/hardware, management and other start-up costs that
would be characterized as equity.
59.    The reorganization of NBC will occur in two phases. In the first phase the banks will be
constituted as subsidiaries of a newly created holding company. They will operate under a new
MOU. The proposed management teams of the institutions will be given intensive training, and
processes will be improved. The Government will also create a fourth subsidiary to hold those
assets, operations and people that should not be allocated to the three banks (e.g., the NBC
Training College). In the second phase, the subsidiaries will be declared autonomous institutions
following their recapitalization by private investors (and/or in the case of Micro-Finance bank,
donors) and the issuance of stock to the public.
60.    The strategy entails soliciting the interest of investors in the operations and assets of NBC.
Selected investors will be asked to express interest in one or more of the subsidiaries and to
propose the terms and conditions. Investors would be told that consideration would be given to
reasonable alternatives to the proposed reconfiguration. In the event that investors do not express
interest, the subsidiaries will continue their restructuring under the MOU, building a track record
of profitability over two to three years before safely issuing shares to the public.
61.     The Government has appointed a project team to manage the implementation of the
strategy and has also provided donors with details of the strategy. TORs and Letters of Invitation
to engage consultants, who will prepare for the solicitation of the investors, were agreed between
the Government and IDA and have been issued.
62.    The next steps in this process, to be supported by a SAC tranche release, would
include:
(a)    Dissolving NBC and transferring its assets to the three new banks created out
of NBC or their holding company, prior to effectiveness (para. 73e).
(b)    Publishing NBC's audited FY95-96 Financial Statements, prior to Board
(para. 71c).
(c)    Distributing an Investment Memorandum  and calling for bids, prior to
tranche release (para. 76).
Petroleum Sector Liberalization
63.    Background.  Tanzania annually imports about 530,000 metric tons (MT) of crude
petroleum and 435,000 metric tons of white petroleum products. Imported crude oil is refined at
the Tanzanian Italian Petroleum Refinery Company (TIPER), jointly owned by the Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), a government parastatal, and AGIP (50/50 percent).
TIPER's production meets about 50 percent of the market requirements of petroleum products.
64.    Marketing and pricing arrangements. The Government currently fixes the retail prices
of petroleum products. There is no price competition and, because of infrequent adjustment of the



16                                                                      Tanzania SAC
pricing formula, the prices do not fully reflect changes in international prices or exchange rate
movements. Until January 1997, TPDC had a monopoly on imports of crude oil and finished
products. The private oil marketing companies were not permitted to import directly to meet their
market requirements. These arrangements have allowed the operation of TIPER to continue,
which, because of its small size, old age, simple technical structure and operational inefficiencies,
is not competitive with imports. The cross-subsidization of the refinery amounts to about US$15-
25 million annually (more in some years, depending on the number of days the refinery was not
operating and on international petroleum prices and margins).
65.    Since January 1997, the Government has partially liberalized imports making it possible
for any of the marketing companies, including TPDC, to submit tenders.  However, the
Government has retained partial price control and TIPER continues to operate. A regulatory body
to monitor the new arrangements was established on April 1, 1997
66.   Immediate and full liberalization of petroleum imports is constrained by infrastructural
bottlenecks, which are now being addressed. There is adequate capacity for LPG imports with the
recent installation of a new pipeline, and some of the constraints on the discharge of refined
products at the main Kurasini Jetty, imposed by the need to simultaneously handle imports of
edible oil, will be removed by October 1997 once a new coastal jetty has been completed. By June
1998, after the Kurasini Jetty has been fully repaired and outfitted, it will be able to handle 2.2
million tons of petroleum products annually, well in excess of the combined requirements of
Tanzania and Zambia.
67.    As part of the SAC petroleum sector tranche release condition, prices and imports of
all petroleum products will be liberalized. In addition, the Government will remove tax
differentials between different products (para. 77).
68.    The reform process, to be supported by the SAC, will include a program calling for the
divestiture of the TIPER refinery. A review of options for the future will be initiated as part of the
refinery study to commence in May 1997. Privatization will be undertaken provided that a
commercially viable, nonsubsidized role is identified, either as an operating refinery, a storage
depot, or some other option.
IV. DISBURSEMENT
69.    Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplificd procedures approved by the Board
on February 1, 1996. The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in the BOT a deposit
account in US dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals
from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. If after
deposit in this account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance
items imported from non-member countries, or goods in the standard negative list), IDA will
require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the account for use for eligible purposes;
or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount of the loan. Although a routine audit of the account will not be automatically required,
IDA reserves the right to require it.



Tanzania SAC                                                                      17
V. COFINANCING
70.    Two cofinanciers have participated in the SAC operation.  The Swiss Government
provided a consultant to work on financial sector reform. The Kingdom of Norway will
supplement the SAC with Fifth Dimension resources.
VI. SAC BOARD AND TRANCHE CONDITIONS
71.    Board conditions.
(a)    The Government has achieved an overall fiscal balance of 0.9 percent of GDP
(after grants) for FY97 on an annualized basis. This is derived from the latest
Treasury Flash Report (see para. 21).
(b)    The Government will submit evidence to IDA indicating that a Performance
Contract has been signed with TRC, which includes compensation payments for
those unprofitable marine services, passengservices and branch lines that the
Government wishes TRC to operate and an cxplicit agreement to allow TRC to
close any or all other such unprofitable services (see para. 49).
(c)    The Government will provide IDA with the published versions of NBC's audited
FY95 and FY96 financial statements (see para. 62b).
Tranche Conditions
72.    Prior to effectiveness of the proposed SAC operation, evidence should have been received
by IDA that the monitorable conditions for release of the first tranche have been met. Thereafter,
release of the four floating tranches will be predicated on IDA receiving evidence of fulfillment of
the specified monitorable conditions.
73.    Effectiveness.
(a)    In its proposed budget for FY98, the Cabinet has, in accordance with the
development program set forth in para. 16 of the Letter of Development Policy,
made the budgetary allocations for its health, education, water, power and
transport sectors, set out in such paragraph (see para. 30b).
(b)    In its proposed budget for FY98, the Cabinet has, in accordance with the social
sector reform program set forth in para. 21 of the Letter of Development Policy,
made the budgetary allocations for recurrent expenditures for primary education,
set out in such paragraph (see para. 37a ).
(c)    The Government has prepared a telecommunications sector competition policy in
accordance with the parastatal reform program set forth in para. 23 of the Letter
of Development Policy (see para. 45).
(d)    In connection with the concession of the container terminal at Dar es Salaam Port
belonging to the Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA), the Government has



18                                                                      Tanzania SAC
furnished evidence to IDA that contracts have been awarded to consultants to
prepare detailed proposals for different concession arrangements (see para. 46).
(e)    In accordance with its banking sector reform program (paras. 24-25 of the Letter
of Development Policy), the Government has dissolved NBC and has transferred
NBC's assets and liabilities to the three new banks to be created out of NBC or to
their holding company (see para. 62a).
74.    Social sector tranche.
(a)    In accordance with the public expenditure management program (paras. 17-19 of
the Letter of Development Policy), the Government has reduced the number of
projects in the public sector development portfolio to 800 or less using guidelines
and criteria set out in para. 18 of the Letter of Development Policy (see para.
3 0a).
(b)    In accordance with the education and training policy referred to in paras. 20-21 of
the Letter of Development Policy, the Government has:
(i)    adopted an action plan (with specific budgetary proposals), agreed upon
by the Government and IDA, for the recruitment, training, upgrading,
deployment and redeployment of primary school teachers (see para. 37b);
(ii)   issued a ministerial circular (A) providing for District Education Officers
and teachers to be recruited and hired (subject, in the case of District
Education Officers, to approval by the ministry responsible for education)
by the District Councils in at least 20 pilot districts; and (B) transferring
all subsidies for primary education in such pilot districts to the District
Councils as block grants to cover salaries and other expenses based on a
formula agreed upon between the Government and IDA (see para. 37c);
(iii)   prepared an action plan, agreed upon by the Government and IDA, for
transferring the management of primary schools to local school
committees (see para. 37c).
(iv)   The Government has prepared an action plan, agreed upon by IDA and
the Government, for the reform of higher education and technical training
(see para. 38).
(c)    In accordance with the health sector reform program in the Letter of Development
Policy (para. 22), the Government has:
(i)    implemented a program  to finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals
delivered to hospitals within the framework of a hospital-based revolving
fund, which involves cost sharing and subsidies, with patients covering at
least 50 percent of the costs (see para. 39a);
(ii)   issued a ministerial circular: (A) providing for District Medical Officers
and district-level health staff to be recruited and hired (subject, in the case
of District Medical Officers, to approval by the Ministry of Health) by the



Tanzania SAC                                                                          19
District Councils in at least 20 districts; and (B) transferring the budget
for health centers and dispensaries in such districts to the District
Councils as block grants to cover salaries and other expenses (see para.
39b);
(iii)   prepared an action plan to reduce the life years lost to malaria (see para.
3 9c).
75.    Parastatal sector tranche.
(a)    The Borrower has taken all steps within its control to bring all seven large
enterprises to the point of sale (see para. 41). The seven public enterprises are:
(i)    Mbeya Cement
(ii)    Sugar Development Corporation
(iii)   Southern Paper Mills (SPM)
(iv)    Morogoro Polyester
(v)    National Milling Corporation (NMC) - all mills to be sold
(vi)   Tanzania Tea Authority (TTA) - all commercial activities to be sold
(vii)   Tanzania Sisal Authority (TSA) - all commercial activities to be sold.
(b)    The Government has taken all steps within its control to bring TTCL to the point
of sale (see para. 45).
(c)    The Government has awarded the concession for the container terminal at Dar es
Salaam Port (see para. 46).
(d)    The Government has abolished NASACO's monopoly for shipping agency
services and permitted free international competition under minimum standards
agreed with IDA (see para. 47).
(e)    The Government has amended the relevant Acts so that neither TCFB nor any
other agency will have the exclusive authority to negotiate freight rates or allocate
cargo across shipping lines (see para. 48).
(f)    The Government has completed a divestiture plan for TRC's Marine Services
Division (including all maintenance and repair shops) and has called for bids (see
para. 49).
76.    Banking sector tranche. The Government has distributed the Investment Memoranda for
the three subsidiaries of the NBC holding company, has issued a call for bids, has evaluated them
and invited successful bidders for negotiations (see para. 62c).
77.    Petroleum sector tranche.
(a)    The Government has issued ministerial orders so as to permit the full liberalization
of petroleum prices and product imports (see para. 67).



20                                                                         Tanzania SAC
(b)    The Government has removed the tax differentials between various petroleum
products (see para. 67).
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
78.    Raising the growth rate in Tanzania to a least 6 percent per annum and substantially
reducing the incidence of poverty will require steady gains in allocative efficiency. The investible
resources are at hand but they are being used inefficiently. The policy measures supported by the
SAC should help bring about a sustainable acceleration in growth in the medium term, that will
steadily whittle away the overhang of povertv.
79.    By securing macrostability, strengthening the financial sector and improving the supply of
essential services, the reforms proposed will inject dynamism into the private sector and promote
outward oriented, productive activities.  The recently regained reform  momentum  and the
Government's apparent determination to implement reforms suggests that the actions proposed as a
part of the SAC program will be implemented on schedule and will yield the desired economic
results. However, a number of macro and micro level risks remain. Tanzania's past track record
with reforms is uneven and its implementation capacity, while improving, remains weak.  A
slackening of reforms because of political opposition, the inability of policymakers to keep the
Government on a difficult course, administrative shortcomings and the lack of technical skills at
the local level, is certainly a risk, though at this stage the likelihood is small. The fiscal situation is
under control but will remain fragile for a number of years. Revenue effort and strict expenditure
management must remain priorities for the foreseeable future in order to hold inflation at bay and
lessen the overwhelming reliance on foreign capital. The attempt at improving delivery, as well as
the financing of social services through decentralization, will be a significant shift from the
Government's past approach.  Unless local government capacity is augmented sufficiently,
accountability is enforced and all stakeholders put in the required effort, the sought after gains in
school enrollment and public health will not materialize.
80.    Lastly, divestiture on the scale being attempted in Tanzania is a difficult, highly complex
undertaking with no guarantee of success.  It constantly risks being subverted by political
opposition, and there is always the possibility that suitable buyers for parastatals and publicly
owned banks will not be forthcoming because of technical flaws in preparation or execution of
divestiture or the relative unattractiveness of the economic environment.
81.    We have assessed these risks carefully taking into account both Tanzania's past record, its
current capabilities and the changing attitudes towards reform in the Region. As always, there is
the possibility that some reform measures might falter or be implemented at a slower pace. But on
balance, we are convinced that this program has the domestic backing and the ingredients that will
ensure success.



Tanzania SAC                                                                        21
VII. RECOMMENDATION
82.    Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would satisfy the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Gautam Kaji
Managing Director
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1997






TANZANIA: STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
POLICY MATRIX
Objectives and Policies               Actions Taken                       Strategies and Measures              Timing/Benchmark
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
Reduce the fiscal deficit to a  TRA launched and operational.  Achieve overall budget balanec after grants (checks   Prior to Board
sustainable level.                                            issued) of 0.9 percent of GDP for FY97 on an
Complied with ESAF program       annualized basis using data from Treasury Flash
targets up to March mid-term     Reports.
review.
Rationalize development      O&E reviews of ministries to     Include in the Cabinet-approved budget proposals for Prior to effectiveness
spending and ensure adequate   rationalize structure, increase  FY98 development spending targets of at least T Sh
financing of priority projects.   efficiency and reduce expenditures   20 billion for priority sectors (excluding the Road
are underway.                    Fund), consistent with the ESAF program, and
ensure that sectoral allocations reflect development
priorities in health. education, water, transport and
power sectors
Introduced cash management       Review the investment program with donors to prune  Prior to tranche release
system.                          and consolidate projects down to 800 or less (these    (social sector program)
would include non-donor projects)
SOCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
Increase share of primary    Prepared Basic Education         Include in the Cabinet-approved budget proposals for Pnor to effectiveness
school spending.             Framework and finalized Basic    FY98 an increase in the share of central recurrent
Education Master Plan.           education expenditure for primary education to 64
percent of total.                                                             an__



Objectives and Policies                  Actions Taken                           Strategies and Measures                 Timing/Benchmark
Rationalize deployment of                                           Adopt action plan for training, upgrading,           Prior to tranche release
teachers and improve the                                            recruitment, deployment and redeployment of          (social sector program)
quality of instruction.                                             teachers.
Decentralize the primary        Pilot programs undervay.            Shift responsibility for recruitment of the DEO and    Prior to tranche release
school system in the interests                                     teaching staff to District Councils and transfer all  (social sector program)
of efficiency.                                                      subsidies for primary education as block grants to 20
selected districts.
Prepare an action plan for transferring responsibility   Prior to tranche release
for school management to legally constituted school   (social sector program)
committees.
Reform technical and higher     Completed review of technical and   Prepare an action plan for the reform of technical   Prior to tranche release
education.                      higher education.                   and higher education.                                (social sector program)
Improve health sector planning                                      Finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to   Prior to tranche release
and financing.                                                      district level hospitals and above through a         (social sector program)
combination of government and donor subsidies and
user fees, with patients paving at least 50 percent.
Decentralizc management of                                          Shift responsibility for recruitment of DMO and of    Prior to tranche release
district-level health services.                                     district-level health staff to District Councils.    (social sector program)
Transfer the budget for health centers and
dispensaries as block grants to 20 selected districts.
Prepare action plan to reduce mortality from malaria.  Prior to tranche release
(social sector program)
P;



Objectives and Policies                 Actions Taken                          Strategies and Measures               Timing/Benchmark
PARASTATAL SECTOR REFORMS
Complete divestiture of large    All enterprises under preparation  Divcst all seven large enterprises or put into   Prior to tranche release
public enterprises.            by PSRC.                           liquidation.                                       (parastatals)
THA (Conicession of container   THA has adopted "landlord" port    Award contract to consultants to preparc detailed  Prior to effcctiveness
terminal),                     conccpt                            proposals for concession arrangcments.
Award concession for THA container terminal.       Prior to tranche relcase
(parastatals)
NASA('O                                                           Abolish monopoly for shipping agencv services and    Prior to tranchc release
permit free international competition under minimum   (parastatals)
standards to be agreed with IDA
TC FB                                                             Amcnd relevant Acts revoking TCFB's authoritv to    Prior to tranche rclcase
negotiate freight rates and allocate cargo across  (parastatals)
shipping lincs
TRC                            Draft perfomiance contract         Sign performiianicc contract w-ith TRC'. whlch will  Prior to Board
prepared.                          includc payments for non-economic services.
Preparation of TOR for consultants  Prcparc comprehensive divestiturc plan for Marinc    Prior to cffectiveness
in progress                        Services Division (including port facilities
maintenance and repair facilities)
TTCL                           Govermnent has allowed             Prepare policy statement on compctition in the     Prior to cffectiveness
lntcrnet/cellular and datalink    telecommunications sector.
serviccs.
Bring TTCL to point of sale.                       Prior to tranche release
(parastatals)
aQ



Objectives and Policies              Actions Taken                      Strategies and Measures            |Timing/Benchmark
FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
Restructunrng and divestiture    Government publicly announced its  Publish NBC's audited FY95-96 financial  Prior to Board
of NBC.                     strategy for reorganizing and    statements.
privatizing NBC. Policy statement
issued by Minister of Finance to  Dissolve NBC and transfer assets and liabilities to its Prior to effectiveness
NBC's Board defining their role    subsidiaries or holding company.
during the transition period.
Distribute Investment Memorandum and call for bids  Prior to tranche release
Project team appointed to manage   and invite successful bidder(s) for negotiations.  (NBC)
implementation of strategy.
Consultants appointed to prepare
for solicitation of investors.
PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORMS
Import and price liberalization,  Announced end of TPDC      Complete liberalization of petroleum prices and  Prior to tranche release
monopoly which permits private    product imports.                             (petroleum)
companies as well as TPDC to
import petroleum products.      Remove differential taxes on refined petroleum  Prior to tranche release
products.                                      (petroleum)
Set up regulatory body for
petroleum sector.
Abolished rationing of petroleum
products among companies
according to market share.
4wt,
> 



Annex B
Page 1 of 9
The Treasury
P.O. Box 91 11,
Dar es Salaam.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
THE MINSETER FOR FINANCE
May 2, 1997
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    I am writing to request, on behalf of the Government of the United Republic of
Tanzania, a Credit of US$125 million equivalent from the International Development
Association (IDA) in support of our structural adjustment program. The proposed Credit
will reinfcrce our efforts to augment public resources and improve the effectiveness and
management of public expenditure by raising allocative efficiency, and stimulate poverty-
reducing growth while maintaining overall fiscal sustainability. It would promote private
sector-led growth, broad-based agricultural development and support the achievement of
our main goal of poverty reduction. The program is consistent with the Policy Framework
Paper (PFP) recently formulated jointly by the Government, with the collaboration of the
staffs of the World Bank and the IMF. Proceeds from the Credit would go towards filling
Tanzania's external financing gaps and would support our budgetary needs through FY99.
BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
2.    Since 1986, the Government of Tanzania has been engaged in a broad ranging
reform effort to reduce economic controls and encourage more active participation of the
private sector in the economy. Over the past decade, we have freed exchange controls,
liberalized the trade regime, removed most price controls, eased restrictions on the
marketing of agricultural products, and eliminated controls on interest rates.  The
Government has also launched programs to rehabilitate and improve maintenance of key
infrastructure (roads, railways and ports) and to strengthen agricultural research and
extension services. These efforts were supported by resources from our donors, including
IDA and the IMF. The results in terms of growth have been heartening. Surveys we have
undertaken indicate that liberalization was associated with impressive growth in per capita



Annex B
Page 2 of 9
income from 1984 through 1990, and the incidence of rural poverty declined from about
65 percent in 1983 to 51 percent in 1991.
3.    However, between 1992 and 1995, Tanzania faced serious fiscal problems arising
from the gap between stagnant revenues and high public expenditures. The quasi-fiscal
deficit generated by the loss-making parastatal sector and a weak banking sector further
aggravated the situation. The large budgetary deficit was the principal cause of double-
digit inflation and the rapid growth of domestic debt.
4.    The significant macroeconomic imbalances, which had persisted since 1992/93
(July/June), are now being addressed. These imbalances had been generated, inter alia, by
major weaknesses in fiscal performance that arose in the course of implementing the
recommendations of the Presidential Tax Commission in 1992/93. The Commission
recommended, among other things, reductions in a number of tax rates aimed at increasing
tax collections through improved compliance. However, tax rates were reduced without
corresponding strengthening of tax administration.  Revenue collections were also
undermined by widespread customs exemptions and continued tax evasion. Furthermore,
weak administration of expenditure control exacerbated the fiscal problem, particularly the
inadequate management of the Government's wage bill, which included a large number of
wage scales and the unsystematic introduction of a wide range of allowances.
5.    The Government has taken vigorous steps to address these problems starting with
the verification and collection of tax arrears and marked reduction of fiscal exemptions.
The fiscal position strengthened during the second half of FY96 and during FY97 as a
result of improved revenue collection (aided by the operationalization of the Tanzania
Revenue Authority) and enhanced expenditure control. This has served to dampen
inflation. Based on the performance under an IMF staff-monitored program during
January-June 1996, Tanzania entered into a three-year ESAF program with the IMF in
November 1996. A mid-term review of the first annual arrangement under the ESAF-
supported program ascertained that most ESAF targets and benchmarks were met with
comfortable margins. The Government also obtained debt relief on Naples Terms from
the Paris Club creditors in January 1997.
6.    The Government has also been making significant progress in other areas of
structural reforms. These have included:
7.    Banking reform. Faced with a near crisis situation in the financial sector, the
Government in the early 1990s committed itself to creating a financial system that would
operate on market-oriented principles, efficient in mobilizing and allocating resources, and
effective in fostering long-term economic growth. The banking system was deregulated
and liberalized and a significant number of new foreign and domestic private banks have
entered the sector. However, the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), which remains in a
poor financial condition, is still dominant, although the situation is much changed from its
near-monopoly position only a few years back. We have been pursuing a vigorous
restructuring plan to stem losses at NBC with branch closures, consolidation of regional
offices into zonal offices, and the retrenchment of staff Fees and commissions have been



Annex B
Page 3 of 9
raised to competitive levels and substantial efforts have been made to improve the
collection of overdue loans. We believe that we are now ready to go ahead with the
divestiture of NBC.
8.    Civil service reforms. To address the problems of an overstaffed, underpaid,
poorly motivated civil service, and to contain and eventually reduce the budgetary outlays
on administrative expenses, the Government has formulated and is implementing an
integrated action plan for civil service reform covering personnel control, salary audits,
O&E (Organizational and Efficiency) reviews, pay reform, retrenchment and
redeployment. In addition, the Regional Administration has been reorganized and local
government is being strengthened.  A total of over 60,000 civil servants have been
retrenched since 1993 (in addition to removing about 20,000 ghost workers from the
payroll), reducing the total number of government employees at end-1996 to about
285,000. The O&E reviews are nearly complete for all ministries Beginning in FY97, a
pay reform program has been introduced to streamline the grading structure, consolidate
most non-incidental allowances into basic pay, and improve control over wage bill
expenditure. The implementation of the program is on track.
9.    Parastatal reforms.  To date, the divestiture program has handled some 150
transactions out of 383 commercial parastatals, or about 40 percent. At the beginning of
the current fiscal year (FY97), 96 transactions had reached the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) stage (i.e., investors had negotiated with the Parastatal Sector
Reform Commission (PSRC) or the line ministry, and signed a preliminary agreement to
purchase, lease, or manage assets). The action plan for enforcing a hard budget constraint
provides for the removal of preferences and the elimination of subsidies for commercial
parastatals and a ban on lending to uncreditworthy parastatals by the NBC is in place. The
next stage is to focus attention on the public utilities
10.   Social sectors.  Tanzania faces severe problems in the health and education
sectors. Social sector indicators are low and stagnant, and even declining in some cases
(as with primary school enrollments). The quality of service is also poor. In March 1995,
the Government adopted a new Education and Training Policy and a Health Sector
Reform Program. Both documents envisage greater liberalization of the social sectors,
increased government subsidies for basic education and health services, decentralization of
government operations, and greater use of alternatives to government funds for nonbasic
services. These programs are consistent with the Government's Social Sector Strategy of
1994, The Government has reduced restrictions on nongovernment suppliers of education
and health services and has developed pilot projects to test new approaches to financing
basic health and education services.   These measures are expected to increase
accountability of such services to clients by putting control over public subsidies closer to
households. The Government has also completed a review of post primary education with
the objective of rationalizing and improving its financing



Annex B
Page 4 of 9
MEDIUM TERM POLICY FRAMEWORK
11.   While continuing the quest for macroeconomic stability, the Government will now
sharpen its focus on policies that aim to reduce poverty by accelerating growth by raising
the efficiency of resource use. Consistent with this objective, we will limit the direct
involvement of the public sector in productive activities, and enhance domestic and
external competitiveness.  Financial sector reform will facilitate the mobilization of
domestic savings and the more efficient allocation of available resources.  Special
emphasis will be placed on strengthening macroeconomic management, particularly with
respect to the implementation of fiscal policy and the mobilizing of public resources. The
development of human resources and improvements in the social and physical
infrastructure will continue to form critical components of the development strategy.
12.   Against this background, the overall macroeconomic objectives for FY98-FY99
are: (i) a real GDP growth rate of 5 percent in FY98, rising to 6 percent or more by
FY99; (ii) a reduction in the average rate of inflation to 7.5 percent in FY98, and 5
percent in FY99; (iii) central government savings of 1.6 percent of GDP in FY98, and 2.5
percent of GDP in FY99; and (iv) a fall in the external current account deficit (excluding
grants) to 9.2 percent of GDP in FY98 and 8.6 percent of GDP in FY99, while
maintaining gross official reserves to the equivalent of three months of imports.
13.   To achieve these objectives, we will maintain the present liberal investment policy,
which is aimed at invigorating private investment. Both domestic and foreign investors
will be free to acquire enterprises divested under the Government's privatization program.
Public expenditure will be oriented increasingly toward strengthening the required physical
and social infrastructure, particularly in the high priority areas of basic health care, primary
education, water and sewage, power, the transport system, and support for agriculture
through extension and development of rural infrastructure. These improvements in the
infrastructure will, in turn, provide a more conducive environment for expanded private
investment. The civil service reform-which is aimed at rationalizing the structure and
improving the efficiency of the civil service-will be completed during the period, building
on the critical pay reform component which has been initiated.
14.   Because poverty in Tanzania is primarily a rural problem, it can be addressed
through liberalizing markets, greater integration of the rural economy into the monetized
economy through construction of feeder roads, better information for producers, and
improved marketing services. As women are the primary cultivators in rural Tanzania,
they and their children can benefit from well targeted rural programs and market-oriented
reforms that increase the returns to agricultural activities. Poverty is also associated with
inadequate and ineffective investments in basic education, health, and family planning.
Women and children benefit more from these programs when they are well financed and
effective.



Annex B
Page 5 of 9
THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
15.   The economic reform program to be supported by the Structural Adjustment
Credit will focus on five areas which conform to the Government's priorities. These are:
(a) public expenditure management; (b) reform of the social sectors; (c) parastatal sector
reforms; (d) banking sector reforms; and (e) reform of petroleum pricing and marketing.
A. Public Expenditure Management
16.   Expenditure control was elusive in Tanzania in the past, but important progress
has already been made in dealing with some of the factors hindering its effectiveness.
Building on the steps aimed at strengthening revenue collections and expenditure control,
the Government has introduced arrangements for tightening expenditure control at the
commitment stage. Various ministries are now organized to closely monitor budgetary
commitments to ensure that they match the available resources. Progress made in this
area will be consolidated and extended in the period ahead. The budgetary process, which
was adopted in the preparation of the FY97 budget and which is by and large in
conformity with the requirements of Financial Orders of Tanzania, will be developed as
the cornerstone of the Government's improved expenditure control procedures.  As
expenditure control improves, adherence to these procedures, as well as other expenditure
control initiatives, will allow the eventual phasing out of the cash management
arrangements. The Government will continue to ensure that its priority activities are fully
funded and that areas of lower priority are either eliminated or postponed.  The
Government intends to allocate T Sh 20 billion in the FY98 budget (exclusive of the Road
Fund) to development spending in the priority sectors of health, education, water,
transport and power.
17.   To improve the efficiency of public investment, the Government has identified a
core investment program as part of the Rolling Plan and Forward Budget (RPFB), with
the goal of focusing the Government's expenditures in the development budget on high
priority projects. To ensure that counterpart funding is available for the high priority
projects, immediate attention will be given to reviewing the development budget and
reducing the number of projects from about 1400 to less than 800 during FY98. Donors
will participate in this exercise. Also, a donor review of externally funded projects will be
undertaken to ensure the completeness of budget information and, together with the
donors, a mechanism will be established to monitor actual project expenditures and
disbursements. The Government will also ensure that budgeted amounts for priority
development expenditures are released fully in a timely manner to maximize the impact on
growth and poverty reduction.
18.   The criteria that will be used in screening the projects are part of our FY98-
FY2000 RPFB guidelines. These are as follows:
Projects without standard project documentation will not be funded.



Annex B
Page 6 of 9
* Projects which have been under implementation for over 10 years will not be
funded. They will be reappraised.
* Projects which are recurrent in nature will be canceled or transferred to the
recurrent budget.
* Commercial projects will not be funded.
* Similar activities which are currently listed as projects will be consolidated
into single projects.
*   Projects with foreign funding will be included in the government budget only
if there is firm commitment for disbursements, before end of March of each
year. Other-wise, they will be considered in the subsequent plan year.
*   Similar projects which are currently inmplemented by more than one agency
will be consolidated (e.g., rural water supply projects).
*   Projects with cross-conditionality will not be included in the government
budget due to uncertainty on disbursement of funds.
*   All projects which are not reporting on donor funds will be excluded from the
government budget.
19.   Parallel with the screening exercise, the allocation of development funds in FY98
will be limited to the following areas: (i) economic infrastructure services (particularly
roads, communication, energy, land and water); (ii) social services (education, health and
water); (iii) environment; (iv) rationalization of government functions and capacity
building; and (v) law and order.
B. Reform of the Social Sectors
20.   The Government will draw up plans to more eftectively deploy primary school
teachers. It also intends to decentralize the recruitment of District Education Officers and
primary teachers by devolving responsibilities to the District Councils.  Financing of
primary education expenditures will be effected through block grants to District Councils.
The Government has developed pilot projects to test new approaches to financing basic
health and education services that increase accountability of those services to clients by
putting control over public subsidies closer to households.  In this context, the
Government foresees transferring responsibilities for primary schools to school
committees.
21.   As stated in the recent PFP, the Government is committed to increased spending
on primary education so that recurrent expenditures per pupil rise by 0.5 percent a year
during each of the next three years relative to the budgetary allocations in FY97. The



Annex B
Page 7 of 9
Government will increase the share of central recurrent education to 64 percent of the
total in FY98. Most of the increase will be on nonsalary inputs. In addition to increased
spending per primary pupil, the Government's budget will reflect adequate resources to
steadily increase the Gross Enrollment Ratio from its current level. The Government is
committed to higher spending on secondary education so that recurrent expenditures per
student rise by 0.5 percent a year during each of the next three years relative to the
budgetary allocations in FY97. The Government will also make additional outlays so that
it can finance higher enrollments in government secondary schools, with the new students
to be drawn from districts that do not have government secondary schools (or, have only
one), with a special emphasis on underutilized government school buildings. In addition,
spending on government secondary schools will be shifted from student board and welfare
expenses toward instructional purposes, so that student board and welfare consume
progressively a smaller share of the secondary school budget to the year FY2000, so long
as equity considerations and national priorities permit.
22.   Starting with the FY98 budget, for the health sector the Government will begin
making significant reallocations of resources from curative services to cost-effective
community and preventive interventions with an emphasis on malaria control. These are
in line with the PFP commitments. Within an overall framework of real spending on
health rising by 0.5 percent a year over the FY97 levels of budgetary allocations per
capita, the Government will increase spending on preventive services and programs to 20
percent of recurrent expenditures over the period, while also increasing expenditures for
health centers and dispensaries. To accommodate this shift in spending it will implement a
program to finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to hospitals by setting up
hospital-based revolving funds financed by central government and donor subsidies.
Patients will contribute at least half of the total cost. We also plan to extend user fees for
curative services at health centers and dispensaries. 'The Government will increase the
independence of public sector hospitals in terms of management and budget, and begin
establishing the regulatory and institutional framework for health insurance for formal
sector employees and for rural-based prepayment/insurance schemes. It also intends to
decentralize the recruitment of District Medical Officers and district-level health staff, as
well as the management of district health facilities. Financing of health centres and
dispensaries will be done through block grants to District Councils. Furthermore, it will
increase the efficiency with which current community, preventive, and curative services
are delivered by promoting facility-based management of local government services and
encouraging greater nongovernmental delivery of services.
C. Parastatal Sector Reforms
23.   Reform of the parastatal sector is a key element of the Government's economic
reform  program.  While the Government is committed to expanding its divestiture
program, it also plans to speed up the privatization of remaining assets in the portfolio to
stop any flows, direct and indirect, from the Treasury to the parastatals; to put the assets
back into productive use as quickly as possible and thereby generate economic activity and
revenue; and to forestall delays, which encourage asset stripping by either the company



Annex B
Page 8 of 9
itself, or its workers, if it remains defunct for an extended period. The implementation of
a hard budget constraint still remains a top government priority. The Government remains
committed to its work plan, which calls for more than 50 additional enterprises to be
removed from government control during 1997 through sale, lease, liquidation, or
divestiture. The next phase of the parastatal reforms will ensure that the restructuring and
privatization of the public utilities are accorded the highest priority. These will include the
operations of the Tanzania Harbours Authority, beginning with the container terminal.
The Government intends to put this under a concession arrangement whereby a private
operator will pay a pre-set fee to the Government for the right to carry out commercial
port operations for a specified time. In the case of Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC),
the Government will enter into a Performance Contract with TRC, and divest TRC's
Marine Services Division. In the case of Tanzania Telecommunications Company Ltd.
(TTCL), we plan to start with the preparation and adoption of a competition policy for the
telecommunications sector. We then intend to move quickly to divest TTCL. As part of
the SAC, the Government will also bring a number of the large non-core public enterprises
to the point of sale. In the case of the National Shipping Agencies Company Ltd.
(NASACO), we intend to abolish its monopoly for shipping agency services and permit
free international competition under minimum acceptable standards. With respect to the
Tanzania Central Freight Bureau (TCFB), the Government intends to revoke its exclusive
powers to negotiate freight rates and allocate cargo across shipping lines.
D. Banking Sector Reforms
24.    The Government of Tanzania remains committed to financial sector reform and,
in particular, to the ongoing restructuring of the NBC. Further restructuring will involve
putting in place incentives to improve the governance of the bank so that it is more
responsive to market forces.  With this objective, the Government's strategy for
reconfiguring and recapitalizing NBC has recently been clearly stated. The strategy would
create three subsidiaries of NBC tentatively titled: Trade Bank with a branch network
catering to the corporate business community including exporters and importers; Regional
Bank with branches in each of the regions focusing on the banking needs of medium to
large companies; and Micro-Finance Bank to address the banking needs of small
entrepreneurs, particularly in the rural areas. NBC would be dissolved and its assets
would be transferred to the three new banks created out of NBC or their holding
company. Common stocks/shares of these institutions will be offered to the public, while
preference shares will be available to investors. It is expected that the investors would
include donors in the case of the Micro-Finance Bank, whose contributions could include
the costs of training, software and hardware, management and other startup costs.
25.   NBC will be reorganized in two phases. First, the three banks will be constituted
as subsidiaries of NBC and will operate under a MOU with the Ministry of Finance. The
proposed management teams of the institutions will undergo intensive training, and
processes will be improved. As a next step, the subsidiaries will be recapitalized through
private investments and issuing stocks to the public, and will become autonomous entities.
In the event that the subsidiaries are not divested, they will operate under strict MOUs.



Annex B
Page 9 of 9
E. Reform of Petroleum Pricing and Marketing
26.   While marketing arrangements were liberalized some years back for almost all
commodities and prices decontrolled, the liberalization of the petroleum subsector was
initiated only recently. The Government has announced that the private sector is free to
import refined petroleum products starting in May 1997, initially up to 50 percent of total
requirements. Immediate and full liberalization of petroleum imports is constrained by
infrastructural bottlenecks, including the oil jetty at the port, petroleum pipelines and
storage capacity, that need to be addressed. Once necessary repairs and new installations
are completed, the physical capacity to meet Tanzania's entire current need for imported
refined products will be in place by June 1998. At that point, the Government will fully
liberalize prices and imports as agreed under the ESAF program. The Government is also
undertaking a study of options for the TIPER refinery, owned jointly by the Government
and AGIP. Following the study, the Government will, by June 1998, come to a decision
regarding TIPER's future role in a liberalized environment.
CONCLUSION
27.   Tanzania is at a threshold. Since the inception of the Third Phase Government,
efforts have been directed towards rapidly reducing the levels of poverty of Tanzanian
citizens through the pursuit of broad-based and sustainable growth policies.  The
Government believes this growth can only come through the unleashing of the motivations
and incentives possible only in a market-based economy led by private sector initiative.
The Government's role would be one of supporting this effort by creating and maintaining
the economic, physical and social infrastructures, and maintaining a stable macroeconomic
environment conducive to these activities by private agents.
28.   The Government is committed to strengthening and accelerating these processes of
change under the structural adjustment program. The Government views the partnership
with IDA, particularly through the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit, as a
continuation of your institution's support in this effort.
Yours 'incet}y .
DMnicl N.  Fo(l)
Miniiste for Finansc






Anex C
Page 1 of 2
Tanzania
,Weert Samue  awineo n                  NMr
__t__single_year            ,ryer           s                       hither
UMit of                                      anSnte       Saharn           Low.       incene
Irdicator                                      mecrurc            1970.75       1980-85      1989-94        Africa       income         7roup
Priority Poverty Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverry line                            local curr.                ..
Headcount index                               % of pop.
Lower povery line                             local curr.                ..
Headcount index      -                        9 of pop.                 ..
GNP per capital                                  USS                   170          290            90          500           390        1,670
SHORT TERM INCOME INDICATORS
Unskilled urban wages                          local curr.               ..
Unskilled rural wages
Rural terms of trade
Consumer price index                           1987=100                  8            58          591             ..          ..
Lower income
Food'i
Urban                                                                 ..           57          '337            ..            .
Rural
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic social services   % of GDP                   ..           ..
Gross enrollment ratios
Pnmarv                                     % school age pop.            53           75            70           71           105          104
MaJe                                              "                    62           76            71           77           112          105
Female                                                                 4.4          74            69           64            98          101
MortalWiy
Infant mrality                           per thou. live births        125           98            84           92            58           36
Under 5 mortality                                                      1..           ..           34          161           101           47
Immunizaton
Measles                                     % age group                 *-         66.0         75.0          51.4         86.2         77.4
DPT                                               -                                67.0         79.0          53.5         89.1         S' 0
Child malnutrnon (under-5)                         '                     *-                      28.0                       38.2
Life expectancy
Total                                           years                  46           51            51           52            63           67
Female advantage                                                      3.2           3.5          2.8           3.5          2.4          6.4
Total fertility rate                       births per woman             6.8          6.7           5.8          5.9          3.3          27
Matemal mortality rte                    per 100,000 live births         ..         370           748
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expendlitures on social security          % of total gov't exp.        0.5           0.7
Social secunrty coverage                  % econ. active pop.            ..           ..
Access to safe water total                     % of pop.              39.0          52.6         52.1
Urban                                                              88.0          88.0         75.0
Rural                                                              -36.0         42.0         46.4
Access to health care                                                   -.          73.0         93.0
Population growth rate                     GNP per capita growth rate                          Development diamondb
(average annual. percent)              10+       (avetage annual, percent)                         Lfe expectacy
42
I                               ~~~~~~~~~~~GNP    A \\Gross
-   ~~~    per                                primary
capita                          enroUlmenti
4                                             .101
-2 |                                           1; 0                            =pr&                         4        >|prs 
1970-75      1980-85      1989-94               1970D75      1980-85      1989-94                   Access tosafe water
G   Tanzania                                                                                       -     Taania
-    Low-income                                                                                     -    Low-income
r See the technical notes. p.387.  b.7'he development diamond. bsed on four key indicators shows the aveng  level of development in the coe:rany
compared with its income group. See the introduction.



Annex C
Page 2 of 2
Tanzania
Most Satm     . rce Vzme group       sail
_hiess sincle ear_          rcseg                                hi gher
Un it of                                  estimate    S4tharn        Lnow      incoeo
Indicator                                  measur*           1970-75     1980485      1989-94       Africa     income        ProU
Resources and Expenditures
HUMAN RESOURCES
Population Imre=1994)                      thousands           15.900      21.797      28.817      571.902   _.1g2.221    1.096.881
Age dependency rauo                          ratio               1.01        0.98        0.94         0.94        0.66        0.63
U'ban                                      * of pop.             io 1        17 6        23.7         30.6        28.3        55.9
Populauon growth te                        annuail %              3.0         3.2         2.9          2.8         1.7         1.3
Urban                                                           10.0         6.5         6.0          4.9         3.2        217
Labor force                               thousands             8.347      11.208      14.796      254.250    1.590,533    48S.647
Agnculture                              % of labor force          88           85          84          65           67          36
Industry                                                           4            5           5            9          14          26
Female                                                            50           50          49          41           39          40
Labor participauon rates
Total                                     % of pop.               52          51          51           44          50          45
Female                                                           26           26          25          37           41         36
NATURAL RESOURCES
Area                                     Lhou. sq. km          945.09      945.09      945.09    24,273.83    40,391.42   40,594.43
Density                                 pop. per sq. kn         16.82       23.06       29.63        22.90       77.44       26.66
Agnculiura. land                         % of land area         42.75       42.90       43.57        50.61       52.42       41.05
Change in agncultural land                 annual %              0.03        0.03        0.00         0.01        0.16        -1.38
Agricultural Land under irigauon              %                  0.14        0.34        0.39         0.86       17.84       11.40
Forests and woodland                     Lhou. sq. km                      379.36      335.55     5.323.14    7,632.00     5,969.25
DeforestaLion (net)                    5o change. 1980-90          ..          ,         1.22
INCOME
Househoid income
Share of top Zo0% of households          %o of income            53           ..          45
Share of bottom 40% of households                                 14                      IS           ..          ..
Share of bottom '0% of households                                 5
EXPENDITURE
Food                                       % of GDP                          55.0
Staples                                                           ..        27.4          ..
Meat, fish, milk. cheese. eggs               '.                              9.4          ..           ..          ..
Cereal imports                        thou. metric tonnes        461          412         215       14.051      36.922      68,936
Food aid in cereals                                               148         125          35        5.079       8.516       5,771
Food production per capita                1987  100              103          106          86          102         115         102
Fertilizer consumpuon                       kg/ha                 0.8         1.0          13          5.3        58.5        46.3
Share of agncuiture in GDP'                % of GDP                 ..       45.9        52.0         19.5        27.6        14.0
Housing                                    % of GDP                 ..        6.9           ...
Average household size               persons per household         ..          ..          ..
Urban                                                             ..          ..          ..
Fixed investment: housing                  % of GDP               2.1         1.7          ..
Fuel and power                             % of GDP                ..         2.2          ..
Energy consumpuon per capiut            kg of oil equiv.          52           35          34         251          373       1.602
Households with electricity
Urban                                  % of households            ..          ..          ..
Rural       .                                                     ..
Transport and communaication               % of GDP                 .,        1.8          ..
Fixed investment trnsport equipment                               3.7         2.5           .,
Totla road length                          thou. km               40           82          88
INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL
Health
Populauon per physician                     persons            22J40       28,271          ..           ..          ..       3,064
Populauion per nurse                                            3,403       7,988          ..
Population per hospiutl bd                                         ..         768         981        1.316       1.034        592
Oral rehydyraEion therapy (under.5)       % of cas                  ..         ..          83          37           38
Education
Gross enrollment rAtios
Secondary                             % of school age pop.         3            3           5          24          48          63
Female                                                            2            2           5          23          42          62
Pupil-teacher ratio: primary           pupils per teacher         54           34          37          40          39
Pupil-teacher rtio: secondary                                     20           19          19           ..         20
Pupils reaching grade 4                   % of cohort             91           89          87
Repeater rate: pnmary                   % of total enroll          0            1           5
Illiteracy                            * of pop. (age 15+)          *-          *-          32          53          35
Female                               %of fen. (age 15+)           ..          ..          43          54          46
Newspaper circulation                    per thou. poE.            4            5           S          12           ..        236
World Bank lntemational Economies Depanment. April 1996
-Dau cover mainland Tanzania only.



Annex D
Page I of 2
Tanzania at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Saharan      Low-
Tanzania     Africa  income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                          29.6       589    3.1t8
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)                                130        490      460                  Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions USS)                                  3.8       289      1.466
Average annual growth. 1980-95
Population (%)            -                              2.9        2.8       1.       GNP 8Gss
Labor force (%)                                          2.8        2.8       1.9       e      I    / \      (mar
per                             prinary
Most recent estimate (latest yearavailablie since 1989)                              Icapita                        enroiment
Poverty- headcount tndex (% of populatfon)                50 S )                                        r
Urban Population (% of total popuLatSon)                  24         31       29                        -
Life exoeciancy at birth (years)                          51        52        63
Infant mornality (per 1,000 Irvs births)                  83        92        58                 Access to safe water
Child mainutntion (% ofchildren undIr)                    28                   38
Access to safe water (% ot populatIo)                     49         47        75
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatbon age 1-5+)                      32         43       34             -   Tanzania
Gross primary enroliment (% of school-age populaboni      70         7t       105
Male                                                    71        77       112                 Low-vtcomegrsup
Female                                                  69        64        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994      1995
GOP (billions LSS)                              2. 6      5.5       3.4       40       Economic raOos
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  21.1     17.7       31.3      31.0
Exorts of goodsand non-factor seiviceslGDP     1918       7.7      23.8      28.0              Openness cf economy
Gross comestic savings/GOP                      8.6       8.7       3.3       4 7
Gross national savings/GDP                                9.8      12.0       9.1
Current account balanceiGOP                   .13.0     -9.3      -26.7    -15.2
Interest payments/GDP                           0.5         .7      4.6       3.8     Savings                      Investment
Total debUtGOP                                 33.6     76.1      213.2    203.2
Total debt ser-viceexports                      73      38.8       23.0      32.9
Present value of debt/GDP                                         160.5
Present vawue of debt'exDorts                                     634.6                            Indebtedness
1975-84  1985-94     1994      1995  1996-04
(average annuat growth)                                                                     -     anzania
GOP                                    1.7      4.0       3.7       39        48                Low-income group
GNP per capita                                                                                  L-oe_
Exporns of goocs and nfs
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                              -
1975     1985      1994      1995
(% o GDP)                                                                              Growth rates of output and invesUtent (%)
Agriculture                                    41.2      52.1      56.9      56.8 S     -
industry                                       22.0     12.0       16.5      16.8     4i
Manufacturing                                 10.4      7.9       7.8       7.8
Services                                       36.8     35.9       26.3      26.3     2t
o!
Pnvate consumption                             74.1      74.9      88.4      85.1             90   91   u2    93   9w    95
GeneraJ government consumption                 17.2      16.4       8.3      10.3              _              0     GOP
Imports of goods and non-tactor services       32.3      16.8      51.8      54.4                    G
1975-84  1985-94      1994      1995
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     2.0       5.4       3.5       4.0
Industry                                       -0.6      6.8        2.9       4.3
Manufacturing                                -0.8       2.8      -0.9       4.5
Services                                        2.4       1.3       4.1       4.1
Private consumption
General government consumption
Gross domestic investment                       4.4     27.3        3.7       2.9
Imports of goods and non-factor services
Gross national product                                    4.1       4.9
Note: 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ Commitment basis.
Tanzania



Annex D
Page 2 of 2
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985      1994      1995     1
Domestic pnces                                 1                                        Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             g0
Consumer prices                                 26.1     33.3       30.2      34.7     ao
Implicit GCP deflator                           15.3     22.8       22.8      34.0     40
Govemment finince a                                                                    20T
(% ot GOP)                                                                              o
Current revenue                                 24.4     18.5       15.0      14.5    !                            93   94    95
Current budget balance                          -1.2     -2.3       -3.4      -4.3              -     GOP det. --cPi
Overall surplus/deficit                         -1.6     -7.8       -8.0    -11.5
TRADE
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions USS)                                                                          Export and import levels (mill. USS)
Total exoons (fob)                              379       326       486       600       2.000
Coffee                                          66      119         90       177          T
Cotton                                          43       27         92  .    85       i.ooo
Manutactures                                    74       33         89        79
Total imDons (cif)                              775       999      1,589      980       1000                              1
FOod                              ~~~~       ~~~      ~~~ ~~137  78 130  18  o
Fuel and energy                                 92      223        149       15
Capital goods                                  241      434        729       394         a
Export price index (1987=100)                              96       126               |        9   90  91  92  93  94  95
Imoort price index (1987s100)                      ..      85       122          .C Exports    2 Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                         ..      114       103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994      1996
(millions JSS)                                                                          Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exoorns of gooos and non-factor services        482       445       855     1.072         __-
lmons of goods and non-factor services          811    1.016      2.068     2.013          as   ao  91 i  92   93   94   95 1
Resource oaiance                               -329      -571    -1,213      -941                                              j
Net factor income                                 -3      -93      -154      -139    ,o          ;
Net current transfers                            12       148       465       437    I
Current account balance.                                                              .20
before official transfers                     -321     -516       -902     -644
Financing items (net)                           306       531       892       611
Changes in net reserves                           15      -14        10        33       30
Memo: 
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)              65        16       306       255
Conversion rate (localUUSS)                      7.4     17.9      477.6    624.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     198B5     1994      1995                 1
(millions USS)                                 1                                       Composition of total debt. 1995 (mill. USS)
Total deot outstanding and disbursed           1.264    4,206      7,442    7,802
IBRD                                           80       266       114.       87                   G      A
IDA                                            81       568      1,998    2,182                  G0C    87
Total debt service                               36       173       174       195                  181              2182
IBRD                                            5        40        42        43454                                21
IDA                                             3         7        25        28
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               128       267       564       620                                     C
Official creditors                            248        55       160       148                                    2
Private creditors                               5        46        12        51                                  D
Foreign direct investment                       0        14         0        27    I               E            504
Portfolio equity                                0         0         0         0                  3291
World Bank program
Commitments                                    40        45       183        11       A - IBRO                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  60        46       183       160       8-IOA     D Other multilateral  F - Pmrte
Principal repayments                            3        27        44        46       C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                      57        18       139       114
Interest payments                               S        20        24        25
Net transfers                                  52        -1       115        89
International Economics Oepartment and AF2CO staff estimates                                                              8120/96
Note: Economic data refer to mainland Tanzania only.
a. Government finance fiscal year (July to June).



Annex E
Page 1 of 3
Tanzania - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                 Estimate           Projected
Indicator                   1991     1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997      1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                      100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculturea                               49.8     49.9     50.2      50.2     53.0      53.2     53.2      53.0
Industry'                                  13.5     14.6     15.2      14.8     12.9      11.5     11.4      11.4
Services"                                  25.2     25.7    26.2      26.7      24.9     25.3      25.0     25.2
Total Consumption                            90.4     96.0     97.5     98.3     95.8      90.8      90.3     90.1
Gross domestic fixed                         29.7    28.9      28.4     25.7     23.9      23.2      22.4     21.7
investment
Govemment investment                        3.0      2.8      3.7       4.1      3.8       3.7      3.8       3.8
Private investment                         29.6     28.9     27.7     24.6      22.8     22.2      21.3     20.6
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                              12.3     13.6     18.0     23.0     24.0      19.8      19.9     20.4
Imports (GNFS)                               35.3     41.3     46.9     50.1     46.3      36.4      35.4     34.9
Gross domestic savings                        9.6      4.0      2.5      1.7      4.2       9.2       9.7      9.9
Gross national savingsc                      19.4     13.3     11.1      8.0      6.9       8.7       8.1      8.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                      3644    3415      3153      3280     3974      5134     5431      5773
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national productper                   105.0   130.0    155.0    145.0    130.0    130.0    150.0    150.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(0%, calculated from 1991
prices)
Gross domestic product at                  5.7%     3.8%     3.9%     3.5%     4.5%      4.4%     4.0%      4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                      3.7%    2.9%      5.8%     3.6%     2.4%      4.6%     3.9%      3.9%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%/o, calculated
from 1991 prices)
Gross domestic product at                  2.5%     0.7%     0.9%     3.5%     1.5%      1.4%     1.0%      1.1%
market prices
Total consumption                         -0.7%     2.0%     2.0%     0.3%    -3.4%      1.3%     0.8%      0.9%
Private consumption                       -0.7%     2.3%     2.3%     0.7%    -2.8%      1.3%     0.8%      0.8%
(continued)



Annex E
Page 2 of 3
Tanzania - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1991    1992    1993    1994        1995     1996     1997      1998
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)b                          528.1   548.6   610.5   848.0   940.5   1017.3   1083.5   1177.0
Merchandise FOB                        393.6   414.1   411.4   485.9   592.9    658.0    696.1    757.3
Imports (GNFS)b                         1569.3  1885.0  2017.2  2241.7   1817.6   1870.6   1921.3   2014.0
Merchandise FOB                        1174.1   1227.7  1250.9  1351.9  1283.2   1317.9   1341.9   1399.3
Resource balance                        -1041.2  -1336.4  -1406.7  -1393.7  -877.1   -853.4   -837.8   -836.9
Net current transfers                     407.7   456.4   463.2   465.0   416.6    443.0    501.7    510.0
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance                 -458.3  -478.8  -621.8  -757.9  -398.7   -371.4   -291.7   -282.7
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct                 10.0    15.0    61.7    63.0    67.3         70.0     75.0     80.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)                     60.7    45.9  -182.8  -150.7   -50.7         31.8    206.2    192.7
Official                                 173.4   262.1    95.1    159.5       0.5     46.3    224.8    166.6
Private                                -112.7  -216.2  -277.9  -310.2   -51.2    -14.5    -18.7    26.1
Other capital (net, including            450.6   520.1   619.9   952.6   428.4    279.1          37.4     71.4
errors and omissions)***
Change in reservesd                      -63.0  -102.2   123.1  -107.0   -46.3         -9.5    -26.9    -61.4
.Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                   -28.6%   -39.1%   -44.6%   -42.5%   -22.1%    -16.6%   -15.4%   -14.%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1991 prices)
Merchandise exports                       3.2%     5.7%    11.4%    6.0%    24.1%     11.3%     4.7%     7.0%
(FOB)
Primary                                  2.6%   -14.4%    19.8%   -10.2%    5.8%     17.7%     8.0%    12.3%
Manufactures                           -29.9%   -18.2%   -16.7%   -13.0%    -9.1%    -4.3%     2.5%     2.7%
Merchandise imports                      -0.4%     1.5%     1.5%    23.2%   -21.2%     5.3%     3.9%     3.6%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Current revenues                           16.7    17.1    12.8    19.1       16.8     15.0      16.0     17.3
Current expenditures                       16.9    16.0    18.8      17.0    17.6      15.8      14.8     15.7
(Continued)



Annex E
Page 3 of 3
Tanzania - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                 Estimatt            Projected
Indicator                   1991      1992     1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Current account surplus (+)                  -0.3      1.1      -6.0      2.1     -0.7       -0.9       1.2      1.6
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                           2.1      3.2       5.1      4.5      3.8        4.0       3.6      3.7
Foreign financing                             1.1      2.2       2.3      2.9       5.2       0.3       2.8      4.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market                    19.9     22.0      25.2     28.1     32.8      25.0      23.3      23.3
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                             26.9     40.5      43.9     45.9     59.8        0.0      11.3     11.8
Private sector credit growth /               63.7  -4784.7      49.3    158.8    -53.0       27.2    -55.9    -60.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1991 =100)
Merchandise export price                    100.0    104.4    103.1    107.4    136.1       105.3    106.4    108.2
index
Merchandise import price                    100.0    105.6    100.8      88.7    117.8      104.3    102.2    102.9
index
Merchandise terms of trade                  100.0     98.8    102.3    121.1    115.5       101.0    104.1    105.2
index
Real exchange rate                          100.0     96.6      93.1     76.2     62.3       48.5     48.5      48.5
(US$/lCU),
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                       28.7%    21.8%    25.3%    30.2%    30.3%       19.0%     13.8%     7.2%
(9% growth rate)
GDP deflator                               12.6%    22.6%    21.0%    26.4%    30.8%       25.7%     15.0'o    7.5%
(9o grov th rate)
* *  Includes accumulation of arrears.
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Central government.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.






Annex F
Tanzania - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                 Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998
Total debt outstanding and             6688.6   6781.4   6962.5   7441.5   7428.5   7346.5   7631.2   7883.0
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Net disbursements (US$m)'               133.4    283.9    170.2    161.6    -24.9      14.2    294.7    250.4
Total debt service (TDS)                207.8    236.9    218.0    168.9    338.9    474.3    381.2    342.7
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                             1253.7   1219.9   1115.2    860.6    775.8    708.2    694.9    661.5
TDO/GDP                               183.5    198.6    220.8    226.9    186.9    143.1    140.5    136.6
TDS/XGS                                39.0     42.6      34.9     19.5     35.4     45.7      34.7     28.8
Concessional/TDO                          ..      ..        ..       ..    62.2      63.4      65.5     66.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                      27.5     19.5      21.0     25.8     12.4       6.8      6.3      5.3
Preferred creditor DS/public           64.5     43.2      42.2     66.0     34.9      26.1     31.8     42.9
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                            10.5      8.1       7.2      4.9      4.3      3.1       2.2      1.5
Share of IBRD portfolio
IFC (US$m) FY Approval year
Loans (commitment)                      2.5      0.0       7.5     18.5      2.7       2.1      2.9
Equity and quasi-equity /c              0.3      0.0       2.1      7.9      0.0      0.0       0.0
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)                    ..      ..        ..       ..       ..      8.3       8.3      8.3
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.






Tanzania - Balance of Payments
(USS millions at current prices)
Base-case (,,gosf likely) projeciion
Acttal                            kEstijiate                                      Projection
1991          1992          1993          1994         1995          1996          1997          1998          1999          2000           20115
Total exports ofGNFS-                                     528.1         548.6         610.5         848.0        940.5        1017.3         1083.5        1177.0        1295.8        1426.4        2070.5
Merchandise(FOB)                                      393.6         414.1         411.4         485.9        592.9         658.0         696.1         757.3         839.4          929.2        1323.1
Nonfactorservices                                     134.5         134.5         199.1         362.1        347.6         359.2         387.4         4197          456.4          497.2         747.4
Total Imports of GNFS                                    1569.3        1885.0        2017.2        2241.7       1817.6        1870.6         1921.3        2014.0        2125.7        2244.9        3003.5
Merchandise(FOB)                                     1174.1        1227.7        1250.9        1351.9       1283.2        1317.9        1341.9         1399.3        1470.2        1545.4        2041.4
Nonfactor services                                    395.2         657.3         766.3         889.8        534.4         552.7         579.4         614.6         655.5          699.5         962.1
Resource balance                                        -1041.2       -1336.4       -1406.7        -1393.7      -877.1        -853.4         -837.8        -836.9        -829.9        -818.5         -933.0
Net factor income                                        -373.4        407.5          -436.9        -462.7      463.2         -471.5         -465.6        -465.7        -467.0        -471.1        -500.1
Factor receipts                                         5.4           7.3           13.8          16.7        17.0          20.0           14.7          14.7          14.7           14.7          14.7
Factor payments                                       378.8         414.8         450.7          479.4       480.2         491.5          480.3         480.4         481.7         485.8          514.8
Interest (scheduled)                              190.8          194.4         177.9         164.0        155.3         116.0         103.1         101.3         100.6          102.4         119.0
Total interest paidb                          190.8         194.4         177.9         164.0        15S,3          64.2          81.5          45.8          66.1          102.4         119.0
Net adjustmentstoschediled interest            0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0          51.8          21.6          55.5          34.5            0.0           0.0
Otherfactorpayments                               188.0         220.4          272.8         315.4       324.9          375.5         377.2         379.1         381.1         383.3          395.8
Netprivatecurrenttransfers                                407.7         456.4         463.2         465.0        416.6         443.0         501.7          510.0         518.0         520.0         573.2
Current receipts, of which                            427.7         476.4         483.2          485.0       436.6         463.0          521.7         530.0         538.0         540.0          593.2
Workers' remittances                                0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Current payments                                       20.0          20.0          20.0           20.0        20.0          20.0           20.0          20.0          20.0          20.0          20.0
Net official cunrent transfers                              0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Curnt account balance                                   -1006.9       -1287.5       -1380.4       -1391.4       -923.7         -881.8       -801.1         -792.7        -778.9        -769.6        -859.9
Official capital grants                                   548.6         808.7         758.6         633.5        525.0         510.4         510.0          510.0         510.0         580.0         527.9
Privateinvestment(net)                                     10.0          15.0          61.7          63.0         67.3          70.0          75.0           80.0          90.0         100.0         100.0
Dirertfbreigninvestment                                10.0          15.0          61.7          63.0         67.3          70.0          75.0          800           90.0          100.0         100.0
Portfolio investments                                   0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
NetLTbofrowing                                             60.7          45.9        -182.8         -150.7       -50.7          31.8         206.2          192.7         203.7         180.0         867.4
Disbursements'                                       279.0          385.3         227.3         262.6        211.0         371.5         499.7         418.0         395.9          376.2         503.9
Repayments((scheduled)                                150.7         142.5         356.4         361.3        322.3         335.0         255.0         198.0         190.0         204.0         1I2.7
Total principal repaid                            62.1        -142.2         218.1          68.6         53.2          9S.2         241.2          142.5         131.2         204.0         182.7
Netadjustmcntstoscheduledrepayments               88.6         284.7         138.3         292.7        269.1         236.8          13.8          55.5           58.8           0.0           0.0
Net otherLTinflows                                    -67.6        -196.9         -53.7         -52.0         60.6          -4.7         -38.S         -27.3          -2.2            7.8         546.2
(continued)
a. Goods and nonfaetor savices.
b. Historical data ftom Debt Reporting System (DRS); other data projected by country operations division staff.
c. 'Lr denotes 'long-tern."
ID
(IQ
CD
O 



Tanzania - Balance of Payments (continued)
(USS millions at current prices)
Base-case (most likely) projection
Actual                             Estimate                                       Projection
1991          1992          1993          1994         1995          1996          1997          1998           1999          2000          200W
Adjustmentstoscheduleddebtservice                          88.6         284.7          138.3         2927        269.1         288.6           35.4         111.0          93.3           0.0            0.0
Debt service not paid                                  88.6         284.7         138.3         292.7        269.1         288.6          35.4          111.0          93.3           0.0           0.0
Reduction in arrears/prepayments (-)                    0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Other capital flows                                       362.0         235.4         481.6          659.9       159.3          -9.5            2.0         -39.6         -23.6          -30.0        -561.9
Net short-tern capital                                  0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Netcapitalflows n.e.i.4                                 0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0         -18.3          85.7           47.8          78.6          64.8          26.8
Errorsandomissions                                    362.0         235.4         481.6         659.9        159.3           8.8         -83,7          -87.4        -102.2         -94.8        -588.7
Change in net intemational reserves                       -63.0        -102.2          123.1        -107.0       -46.3          -9.5          -26.9         -61.4         -94.5          -60.4         -73.5
(- indicates increase in assets)
Memorandum items
Total gross reserves, ofwhich                          209.4         384.9         294.6         306.3        255.1         242.3         318.2          411.0         543.2         637.2         952.9
Total reserves minus gold                         384.9          294.6         306.3         255.1       240.1          242.3         318.2         411.0         543.2          637.2         952.9
Gold (at year-end London price)                       ..            ..            ..            ..          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
Total gross reserves (in months' imports G&S')           1.3           2.0           1.4            1.4         1.3           1.2            1.6           2.0           2.5           2.8           3.3
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/USS)r                               219.2         297.7          405.3         509.6        574.8         584.0         660.3         694.5         727.7          761.2         972.8
Atendyear(LCU/USS)                                      233.9          335.0         479.9         523.5       707.2          622.2         677.4         711.1         744.4          780.3         997.2
Indexrealaverageexchangerate(1991 =100)                 100.0           96.6          93.1          76.2         62.3          48.5          48.5          48.5          48.5           48.5          48.5
Current Account Balance as % GDP                          -27.6         -37.7         -43.8          -42.4       -23.2         -17.2          -14.8         -13.7         -12.6         -11.7           -9.6
d. "n.e.i." denotes 'not elsewhere included."
e. "G & S" denotes 'goods and services."
f. 'LCUI denotes "local currency units."
g. The index of the real exchange rate reflects USS/LCU, so an increase is an appreciation at the real exchange rate.
CD



Annex H
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of March 31, 1997
(US$ millions)
(Less Cancellations)
Loan or     Fiscal                                                                              Undis-
Credit No.  Year   Borrower       Purpose                           Bank          IDA           bursed
Twenty-seven (27) Loans and eighty-one (81) Credits closed,         355.55       1,733.47        15.42
of which SECALS, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:         .                       (795.42)
Cr. 20950    1990   Tanzania      Ports Modernization                              37.00         13.34
Cr. 20980    1990   Tanzania      Health & Nutrition                               47.60        24.29
Cr. 21370    1990   Tanzania      Educ. Planning & Rehab.                          31.30         6.58
Cr. 21490    1990   Tanzania      Roads 1                                         180.40        52.18
Cr. 22020    1991    Tanzania     Petrol Rehab                                     44.00        37.64
Cr. 22670    1991    Tanzania     Railways Restructuring                           76.00        43.07
Cr. 23350    1992   Tanzania      Forest Resources Man                             18.30         5.94
Cr. 24130    1993   Tanzania      Financial & Legal Ma                             20.00         9.57
Cr. 24860    1993   Tanzania      Telecom III                                      74.45        50.60
Cr. 24890    1993   Tanzania      Power VI                                        200.00        84.55
Cr. 25070    1993   Tanzania      Priv. Pub. Sect. Mgt.                            34.90         17.00
Cr. 25370    1994   Tanzania      ASMP                                             24.50         13.44
Cr. 25980    1994   Tanzania      Roads II                                        170.20        156.10
Cr. 26480    1995   Tanzania      Mineral Sector Dev.                              12.50         8.66
Cr. 27710    1996   Tanzania      Financial Inst. Dev.                             10.90         8.35
Cr. 28670 *  1996   Tanzania      Urban Sector                                    105.00        100.00
Cr. 28990    1997   Tanzania      Nat. Ext. Proj. PH. II                           31.10        28.78
Cr. 29000    1997   Tanzania      River Basin Mgm. Small                           26.30        22.51
Cr. 29080    1997   Tanzania      Lake Victoria Env.                               1.10          9.68
Total                            355.55        2888.02       692.28
of which repaid                 311.92         102.90
Total held by Bank & IDA          43.63        2785.12
Amount sold     6.29
of which repaid 6.29
Total Undisbursed                                            707.70
* Not yet effective.



Annex H
Page 2 of 2
Tanzania
STATEMENTOF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of March 31, 1997
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                     Disbursed
--- --------IFC----------FC-----------
FY           Company          Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
Approval
1989     TASCO                     .88    0.00    0.00    0.00   .88    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991     Mufindi Tea              1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.30    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991     TPS Zanzibar             1.15     .16    .10    0.00   .86    .16   .10    0.00
1993/96  AEF Tanganyika           0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1993     TPS (Tanzania)           7.00    1.06    1.04    0.00   7.00    .87   1.04    0.00
1994     AEF Moshi Lthr           0.00     .25    0.00    0.00   0.00    .19   0.00    0.00
1994     AEF Nomad Safari         .12    0.00    0.00    0.00   .12    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994     AEF Raffia Bags          .50    0.00    0.00    0.00   .50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994     Eurafrican Bank          3.00     .73    0.00    0.00   0.00    .73   0.00    0.00
1994     Tanzania Brewery         0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    6.00   0.00    0.00
1994     ULC Leasing              3.00     .95    0.00    0.00   1.50    .57   0.00    0.00
1995     AEF MIC Tanzania         .80    0.00    0.00    0.00    .80    0.00   0.00    0.00
1995     AEF Tan Leather          1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1995     AEF Tanbreed             .90    0.00    0.00    0.00   .90    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996     AEF A&K Tanzania         .38    0.00    0.00    0.00   .38    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996     AEF Contiflora           .40    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996     AEF Milcafe              .35    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996     AEF Zainab Grain         1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997     AEF Aquva Ginner         1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997     AEF Hort. Farms           .80    0.00    0.00    0.00   .80    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997     AEF Pallsons             .55    0.00    0.00    0.00   .55    0.00   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:               25.13    9.15    1.14    0.00  18.09    8.52   1.14    0.00
Pending Commitments
1997     * AEF AQUVA              1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
GINNER
1995     * AEF-ONE EARTH           .70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995     * AEF-TRADECO             .93    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996     * IHP LTD.               1.65     .60    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       4.78    0.60    0.00    0.00






IMAGING
R:eport No.: P         7127    TA
Type        PR



