Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22150
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
May 2, 2001
CREDIT NO: 2967
Africa Technical Macroeconomics II
Country Department for Tanzania
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TSh.)
Inter-bank rate: US$ = TSh 880 (April 2001)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BOT        Bank of Tanzania
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CRDB       Cooperative and Rural Development Bank
DEO        District Education Officer
DMO        District Medical Officer
EDB        European Development Bank
ESAF       Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IMF        International Monetary Fund
KOJ        Kurasini Oil Jetty
MTEF       Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NASACO  National Shipping Agencies Corporation
NBC Ltd.  National Bank of Commerce Limited
NBC        National Bank of Commerce
NMB        National Micro-finance Bank
PFP        Policy Framework Paper
PIP        Public Investment Program
PSAC       Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit
PSRC       Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SPM        Southern paper Mill
SUDECO   Sugar Development Corporation
TCFB       Tanzania Cargo and Freight Bureau
THA        Tanzania Harbor Authority
TICTS      The Tanzania International Container Terminal Services Limited.
TIPER      Tanzania Italian Petroleum Refinery Company
TOR        Terms of Reference
TPC        Tanzania Paper Mill
TPDC       Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
TRC        Tanzania Railways Corporation
TTCL       Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Countiy Director:  James Adams
Sector Manager:   Frederick Kilby
Cluster Leader:  Benno Ndulu
Task Team Leader:    Alberto Agbonyitor



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Contents
PREFACE ...................................................I
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................I
Introduction .....................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ....................................................                                     ii
Assessment of Outcome .................................................... iv
The Main Lessons Learned ....................................................v
PART I: PROGRAM  IMPLEMENTATION  AND  ASSESSMENT  ..................................................                                   I1
A. Introduction .....................................................I
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives .....................................................I
C. Achievement of Objectives .....................................................3
D. Sustainability of Reforms .....................................................                                             6
E. Bank Performance .....................................................6
F. Borrower Performance ....................................................6
G. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................7
H. Follow-up Activities .....................................................7
I. Key Lessons Learned .....................................................8
PART II: ATTACHMENT TABLES ..................................................                                                          9
Table 1: Sunmary ofAssessment ..................................................... 0
Table 2: Related Bank Operations .................................... .                                    .............. II
Table 3: Project Preparation Timetable ....................................................                                   12
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated andActual .................................................  13
Table 5: Key Indicators of Program  Implementation ......................                    ..............................    14
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators .................................................... 19
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project ....................................................                               20
Table 8a: Project Costs .....................................................                                                 21
Table 8b: Project Financing ....................................................                                              21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ....................................................                                     21
Table 10: Status of Particular Covenants ....................................................                                22
Table 11: Compliance with Operatioonal Manual ..................................................... 22
Table 12: Bank Resource- Stafflnputs ....................................................                                     23
Table 13: Bank Resources- Missions ....................................................                                       24
Appendix I .......... ................ .......        ....... _...........                   .....        .                   25
Aide Memoire of Preparation Mission ........................... 25
Appendix 11 ..................................2.....................6.....................                                ... 26
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR .................................. 26
Background ..................................                                                                                 28
Execution ..................................                                                                                  28
Alid-term Review ..................................                                                                           29
Social Sector Tranche .................................. 29
Banking Sector Tranche .................................. 31
Petroleumn Sector Tranche ..................................                                                                  32
Parastatal Sector Tranche .................................. 33
Lessons Learned ................................... 3
Conclusion: ..................................                                                                                36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TBE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit NO: 2967
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Structural Adjustment Credit for the
United Republic of Tanzania for which a credit amount of SDR 93.2 million (US$128.9 million),
including IDA reflows allocations of SDR 2.8 million, was approved by the Bank Board on May
7 1997.  Three additional IDA  reflows allocations amounting to US$3.7 million were
subsequently approved. The first tranche of SDR 36.15 million, together with the IDA reflows of
SDR 2.8 million, was released when the Credit became effective on October 1 1997. The SAC
was closed on June 30 2000, after satisfactory implementation and release of the final tranche.
The Government of the Kingdom of Norway co-financed the Credit with a grant amount of NOK
25 million (US$ 2.8 million). The Government of Switzerland contributed a Trust Fund
amounting to CHF 12 million (US$ 7.7 million).
The ICR was prepared by a team comprising T. Tinnes (Royal Norwegian Embassy in Dar es
Salaam) B. Tarimo, P. Mpango and V. Rwechungura (AFMTZ) and A. Agbonyitor (AFTM2),
Task Team Leader. B. Ndulu, Cluster Leader, provided helpful comments on the ICR and led the
mission team in discussing an initial draft with the authorities. The discussions focused on
implementation experience and lessons for future operations, factors that account for the
satisfactory execution of the program and achievement of objectives. The ICR was reviewed by
J. Adams, Country Director, and F. Kilby, Sector Manager. N. Zingg (EDS24) coordinated
comments on the ICR from The State Secretariat for Economy of Switzerland. Other comments
were received from sector specialists and Bank staff involved in the SAC or in parallel activities:
S. Yusuf, Task Team Leader for the SAC, and L. Haggarty (DECRG), C. Kanda (AFTHI); S.
Dhar (AFTM2); G. Byam (AFTPF); and S. Thomas (AFTTR). A. Siddiky (AFTM2) assisted
with the preparation of the attachment tables.  The staff assistants for the task were M.
Mwakangale (AFMTZ) and P. Mamboleo (AFTM2). The ICR was reviewed at a Country Team
meeting chaired by R. Brigish, Country Program Coordinator for Tanzania, on April 17 2001; the
draft was revised based on the comments of the review meeting.
The preparation of the ICR was initiated during two missions to the East Africa Region, which
included visits to Tanzania during September 24 to October 1 and December 10 to the 15th 2000.
The borrower made arrangements for the mission to meet with all units of the Government and to
assist in data preparation. The borrower provided data, documents and written papers for
preparing the ICR. In addition, the borrower contributed its own evaluation, which is attached as
Appendix II. The mission included a visit to the National Oil (Tanzania) Limited, a beneficiary
of the Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project and the oil sector reform component of the SAC.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The Govermnent's main objective of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was to foster faster
economic growth and improve living conditions by advancing the economic reforms initiated in
the mid-1980s. The SAC was presented to the Board in parallel with the Tanzania Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY98-00. In addition to being in conformity with the CAS, the
SAC capitalized on and extended reforms agreed under the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for
FY97-FY99, which was prepared in collaboration with the Bank and the IMF. The Government's
commitment was underlined by prior actions, including financial sector reforms promoting
private banking, parastatal reform and civil service reform. The successful completion of an IMF
staff-monitored program in June 1996 and the IMF Board approval of an ESAF arrangement in
November 1996 further signaled the Government's commitment to the reform program.
The SAC amount of SDR 93.2 million (US$128.9 million), of which IDA reflows allocations
amounted to SDR 2.8 million, was approved by the Bank Board on May 7 1997. The Credit was
to be released in five tranches, including four floating tranches linked to specific monitorable
indicators.  Three additional IDA reflows allocations amounting to SDR3.7 million were
subsequently approved. The first tranche of SDR 36.15 million, together with the IDA reflows of
SDR 2.8 million, was released when the Credit became effective on October 1 1997. The SAC
was closed on June 30 2000 after the fifth and final tranche had been released.
Tlhe Government of the Kingdom of Norway co-financed the Credit with a grant amount of NOK
25 million (US$ 2.8 million) linked to macroeconomic reforms. The Government of Switzerland
contributed a Trust Fund of CHF 12 million (US$ 7.7 million) linked to banking sector reforms.
The principal reforms supported by the SAC were focused on the following areas:
*  Consolidate macroeconomic stability, emphasizing improved tax administration and greater
revenue collection, prudent expenditures and generation of surpluses to finance development;
*  Improve public expenditure management and basic services by adopting reforms, involving
the implementation of a medium-term expenditure framework, shifting the structure and level
of expenditures to favor critical services, and trimming the over-extended public investment
program in line with public policy and priorities;
*  Decentralize and strengthen the management and financing of social services at the local
level, and continue the policy of allowing private provision of these services so as to increase
access, especially to basic education and basic health services;
*  Liberalize oil import, marketing and prices, and privatize the petroleum refinery;
*  Restructure and privatize targeted parastatal entities to reduce subsidies and free up
underutilized assets to be used more efficiently to improve services, with emphasis on
telecommunication, railways, shipping, the ports and selected smaller enterprises; and



ii
* Resolve the problems of the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), the most dominant
commercial bank, accounting for 63 percent of deposits. NBC was to be dissolved and its
assets transferred to three new banks created from the dissolution, followed by privatization.
Each component of the SAC was substantive and focused on a core issue to build on past reform
efforts and to begin removing obstacles to efficient resource use and growth. Tanzania had made
limited progress in attracting private investments, and in reforming public institutions and
effectively utilizing public resources in the past. Despite the Government's commitment to the
reforms, the Bank was aware that the Credit might falter from various risks, including capacity
constraints, and the likely short-term adverse political effects of the parastatal reforms and
abolition of price controls. However, the new Government was prepared to act on the momentum
of the political will coming from the elections and to strengthen its position with good results.
The political leadership and the open decision process being used by the Government to enlist
public support for the reforms were favorable ingredients that could facilitate implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
The overall implementation was satisfactory, and the reforms were deepened on all the maj or
fronts. Government commitment remained strong and a consensus for change was maintained as
the program advanced. Some components of the program, such as the decentralization of social
services and banking reforms, were modified; this resulted in a stronger reform program than the
initial design at entry. The modifications and the need to complete essential technical work to
inform reform decisions led to delayed action on some measures. The delays did not result from
a softening of Government commitment. The direction of Government policy was steady, and the
development objectives underlying the SAC remained valid and achievable. Thus, the SAC was
extended to close on June 30 2000, rather than the original date of December 31 1998.
Macroeconomic management was prudent.  Expenditures were restrained, and limits on
domestic borrowing were maintained. Tax revenues fell temporarily in proportion to GDP from
11.9 to 10.3 percent during FY97-FY99, reflecting tax reforms that reduced the top import duty
rate and adjusted the intermediate rates, and eliminated nuisance taxes on private investments. As
the reduced tax rate and elimination of exemptions broadened the tax base, tax revenues
recovered to 10.5 percent of GDP in FYOO and are expected at 11.7 percent of GDP in FYOI,
based on mid-FYOI outcomes. The fiscal surplus (after grants) was 0.2 percent of GDP in FY98
and 0.5 percent of GDP in FY99. Inflation and Treasury bill rates declined. Foreign direct
investments averaged over US$160 million a year in 1997-99, compared to US$46 million in the
first half of the decade. Economic growth was strengthened by the investments and expansion in
mining, tourism and manufacturing. The GDP growth rate stabilized more firmly around a 4
percent growth path through the mid-1990s, compared to the stagnation of the earlier decade.
Public resource management improved. Limits on the wage bill and reduced interest payments
on debt service led recurrent expenditures to fall by 2 percent of GDP to 10.9 percent of GDP
during 1997-99. Development expenditures rose by 1.4 percent of GDP, while the number of
projects in the public investment program was pruned. A medium-term expenditure framework
(MTEF) was implemented during FYOO to extend the horizon for expenditure planning and
service delivery. The public expenditure review and resource assessment processes of the MTEF
helped to strengthen expenditure prioritization. Social expenditures received greater funding and
priority with support from the Multilateral Debt Fund created by donors. Health sector recurrent
expenditure rose from 8.9 percent to 10.6 percent of total discretionary spending during FY97-
FY99. Education's share of public resources remained more or less stable, equivalent to some 26
percent of discretionary spending, with emphasis on primary schools, which accounted for 62
percent in FY99, compared to about 50 percent in most countries. Non-salary expenditures per



iii
pupil rose by 8 percent in constant price terms during 1997-99. The share of secondary schools
from education expenditure remained low at 7 percent in FY99; limited access to secondary
education remains a serious concern. Raising the low tax effort and limiting domestic arrears are
essential to relax the stringent cash budget system and enhance the effectiveness of the MTEF.
The program to decentralize service delivery in education and health in order to improve their
management and financing and, thereby, services was modified to fit into a broader national
program  of local government decentralization.  The modified design involved making
fundamental changes in the relationship between local administration and other levels of
Government, and strengthening local level management authority for education, health, water,
agriculture and roads. The redesigned program included building capacity at the local level to
facilitate implementation and results. The first phase of the decentralization program currently
under implementation covers 38 out of 113 local administration areas, instead of the 20 that was
to be piloted in the original program. Conditional and unconditional block grant transfers to local
level authorities were introduced in principle in the FY01 budget. However, the implementation
is emphasizing only conditional grants budgeted mainly for specified activities, to be released on
the basis of appropriate spending plans. Recruitment of education officers and teachers, and staff
in district hospitals has been transferred to the Council. Required actions on other education
reforms covering training and redeployment of teachers, and reform of technical and higher
education were taken. For health, the implementation of a hospital-based drug revolving fund
pilot and the preparation of an Action Plan to combat Malaria were carried out.
In the area of parastatal reforms, approximately 150 of the existing 395 parastatals had been
privatized or liquidated prior to the SAC, and this number increased to over 200 by the end of
June, 2000. The significance of privatizing such large numbers of small public enterprises was
that it reinforced new policies and signals on the welcome attitude towards private investments.
In the case of the strategic parastatals, after a transparent and competitive bid process, the sale of
35 percent of TTCL for US$120 million to a consortium of Detecon, an affiliate of Deustche
Telekom, and MSI was initialed on December 7 2000. Government relinquished management
control, while retaining 36 percent of the shares and reserving the rest for transfer to other private
investors and employees of TTCL. The monopoly of TCFB in negotiating and allocating cargo
was abolished. NASACO's de facto monopoly status was terminated; twenty five local and
foreign firms have been licensed to compete with NASACO. The Dar es Salaam Container
terminal, formerly operated by THA, was leased to The Tanzania International Container
Terminal Services Limited, a consortium of two private firms, the International Container
Terminal Services Incorporated of the Philippines (75 percent) and a Tanzanian finance company
(25 percent). A renewable Performance Contract was signed for TRC, however, the contract has
yet to be implemented. A waiver was agreed on the divestiture of the Marine Services Division
of TRC, because the transaction required complex corporate and financial restructuring that had
not been anticipated. To revamp the regulatory framework for the utilities, a draft bill on multi-
sector regulatory framework has been prepared and discussed with concerned stakeholders.
Sector regulatory laws have to be amended to strengthen the multi-sector regulatory framework.
The banking sector reforms were implemented with a minor modification. Two banks (NBC
1997, and The National Micro-finance Bank Ltd. - NMB), rather than three, were created from
the split of NBC. NBC Ltd., has been successfully privatized. No bids have been received for
NMB. As an interim measure, NMB is being managed by a private management team, The
Development Alternative Incorporated, under a two-year contract that commenced in August
1999. The management contract is expected to enhance the chances for privatizing NMB. The
banking reforms, including the emergence of private banks, have facilitated the growth of a more
diversified and competitive banking system, eliminated state-directed lending and improved the
collection of NBC's non-performing loans. Various initiatives are under way to strengthen micro-



iv
finance. The Bank of Tanzania has created a micro-finance directorate; and it is developing the
necessary policy framework to support micro-financing activities. Four community banks have
been licensed. A European Development Bank program is being developed to provide resources
for on-lending to small investors. Participants in the program include Standard Chartered Bank,
Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, and Stanbic Bank.
Petroleum import and marketing was fully liberalized. The Miscellaneous Amendments Act
(1999) gave the Government authority to reform oil policy. Oil retail prices were fully liberalized
in July 1999 and cross-subsidies were removed. Petroleum product imports were fully liberalized
in January 2000, making oil companies responsible for ensuring adequate supply of petroleum
products. The petroleum refinery was not attractive to the private sector once the subsidies were
removed; thus, it remains partially state-owned entity. It has been closed down for use as a
storage facility. The reforms contributed to the realization of an oil import and marketing system
under private sector management. Private investments in the sector have increased along with the
adoption of improved technologies to increase oil supply, especially in the urban areas. The
passage of the Petroleum Supply Bill is essential to firm up the policy framework and strengthen
the guidelines for product quality, safety and environmental standards for the industry. Interim
Petroleum Regulations were gazetted on September 1 2000, pending the enactment of the Bill.
Assessment of Outcome
It is difficult to disentangle the direct contribution of the SAC to the goals it supported, given the
mutually reinforcing contribution of the Government and other donors. Clearly, however, the
SAC played a positive and catalytic role in broadening donor support, including coordinated
donor funding for social services, through the Multilateral Debt Fund. The structural and
institutional elements of the SAC require sustained effort to get lasting results. In the interim, the
reforms have assisted to improve basic economic and social services and to launch a
decentralization program to sustain the effort. In education, the downward trend in absolute
primary school enrollments is being reversed. In health, anecdotal evidence indicates that the
emergence of private pharmacies has contributed to improving drug supplies in some areas.
The privatization effort gained credibility, and private investments rose, especially in mining,
petroleum, tourism, banking and manufacturing.  Private investments remain minimal in
agriculture. Total investments averaged about US$160 million a year during 1997-99, compared
to US$46 million a year in the first half of the 1990s. There has been response from non-
traditional exports, such as manufacturing, gold, diamond, handicrafts and horticulture. Overall,
GDP is more firmly on a stable growth path, averaging 4 percent for most of the 1990s, better
than the lack of consistent performance of the preceding decade. The recent upward trajectory of
the GDP growth path - 4 percent in 1998, 4.7 percent in 1999 and a provisional estimate of 5.2
percent in 2000 - suggests that the higher growth rate anticipated by the SAC is achievable.
Judged on the basis of the implementation of the program and progress on the policy objectives,
one could imagine that an overall desirable poverty outcome has been realized. The sustained
implementation of the reforms, consolidation of macroeconomic stability and movement to a
more steady economic growth path, together with improved support for social services, should
raise living conditions or at least strengthen the basis for reducing poverty. Yet, there is no
reliable information to indicate what actually happened to poverty. The analytical work that can
provide concrete insight on the evolution of poverty and social outcomes is under way.



v
The Main Lessons Learned
Political Commitment: Government commitment has been key to the progress made in
implementing the SAC, especially given its broad scope and complexity. This commitment
helped to strengthen cooperation between the Government and the Bank, and provided a basis to
focus Bank assistance on redressing technical and capacity constraints.  For example, the
modification of the social sector reforms noted earlier was feasible because the Government had
already made a political decision and was initiating actions to undertake a much stronger
decentralization than initially envisaged under the program. With such Government commitment,
technical assistance (TA) served to redesign the program accordingly and to adopt a phased
implementation plan, taking into account local level capacity constraints. Given Government
commitment, the framework of the SAC facilitated the role of the top political leadership and
central policy organs, such as the Ministry of Finance, in monitoring the implementation of the
reforms by concerned sector departments. A reform program needs not falter because of its scope
and complexity, if there is Government commitment to play a lead role, and Bank flexibility to
assist in mitigating capacity and other technical factors constraining implementation.
Sequencing.  With hindsight, the sequencing of actions and time frame envisaged for
implementing the SAC was optimistic, although it may have served a useful purpose in
conveying a sense of urgency and a need to act sooner rather than later. The institutional and
structural measures to be taken by the Government had a medium-term perspective, while the
horizon of the SAC was much shorter. The Bank took this factor into account by being flexible,
including using floating tranches to give the Government a measure of control in timing its
actions. Yet, from the Government's experience, there was uncertainty about the timing of
tranche releases, which are linked directly to the financing of the budget. The follow-up
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit currently under implementation seeks to provide a
more realistic time frame for completing its implementation by building on the medium-term
perspective of the government's program. Realistic sequencing has also been an issue with
regard to the privatization of the large infrastructure public enterprises. The creation of necessary
multi-sector regulatory regimes for the infrastructure entities (marine services, aviation, road
transport and railways) and the utilities took more time than expected. In some instances,
sequencing the due diligence process for units being privatized to take place after the bids led to
reopening of the bids as new pertinent data became available. The new privatization process
approved by the Government involves sequencing the bid process to take place after due
diligence. In other areas, some officials pointed to the salutary role of co-financing, especially in
a large reform program. Co-financing has been helpful to limit duplicative preparation of
documents and to optimize the use of government capacity.






1
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION AND ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was prepared by the Government that came to
power following the elections in November 1995 to build on reforms initiated in the mid-1980s,
and to pave the way for faster economic growth and better living conditions. The SAC was
presented to the Board in May 1997 in parallel with the Tanzania Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of FY98-FYO0. In addition to being in conformity with the CAS, the SAC capitalized on
and extended reforms agreed under the PFP (FY97-FY99), which was prepared in collaboration
with the Bank and the IMF. The Govemment demonstrated its commitment to reforms through
various actions, including a program of parastatal divestiture, civil service reform and
deregulation of the financial sector to allow private banks. The Government's Letter of
Development Policy of May 1997 reaffirmed commitment to the SAC. The successful completion
of an IMF staff-monitored program in June 1996 and the IMF Board approval of an ESAF
arrangement in November 1996 further signaled the Government's commitment to reforms.
2.    The SAC amount of SDR 93.2 million (US$128.9 million), of which IDA reflows
allocations amounted to SDR 2.8 million, was approved by the Bank Board on May 7 1997 to be
released in five tranches. Subsequently, three additional IDA reflows allocations (SDR 1.8
million for FY98, SDR 1.1 million for FY99 and SDR 0.8 million for FY00) were approved. The
first tranche of SDR 36.15 million, together with the IDA reflows of SDR 2.8 million, was
released when the Credit became effective on October 1 1997. The remaining four floating
tranches were linked to specific monitorable indicators. These were: (i) development expenditures
and the social sector program (SDR 18.1 million); (ii) divestiture of NBC (SDR 18.1 million);
(iii) parastatal reform (SDR 10.85 million) and (iv) petroleum sector liberalization (SDR 7.2
million). The SAC closed on June 30 2000 after the fifth and final tranche had been disbursed.
3.    The Government of the Kingdom of Norway and the Government of Switzerland co-
financed the project. Norway co-financed the Credit with a grant amount of NOK 25 million
(US$ 2.8 million) linked to macroeconomic reforms. Switzerland contributed a Trust Fund
amounting to CHF 12 million (US$ 7.7 million) linked to the banking sector reforms.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
4.    The main goal of the SAC was to improve the outlook for accelerated economic growth,
based on using Government resources more effectively and attracting private investments, and to
create the scope for marked poverty reduction. The main policies were focused on: sustained
macroeconomic stability; improved public resource management, including the rationalization of
the level and composition of sector expenditures; decentralized delivery of social services;
parastatal reforms; banking reforms; and reform of pricing and marketing of petroleum. The
reforms aimed to reduce the large public sector while giving priority to improving selected public
services, remove the state from managing commercial concerns, facilitate private investments and
promote outward-oriented productive activities.
5.    Macroeconomic Framework: Government, aided by a stringent cash budget system,
sought to consolidate macroeconomic stability, and to generate budgetary surpluses for
development financing. There were measures to strengthen the capacity of the Tanzania Revenue
Authority and the administration of the VAT so as to raise revenues. Domestic borrowing and
monetary restraint were emphasized to stabilize prices and interest rates. These measures,



2
together with better expenditure management, parastatal divestiture and banking sector reforms,
would establish a sound basis for faster economic growth and improvement in living conditions.
6.     Public Resource Management: Public expenditure reforms sought to reinforce fiscal
discipline by limiting aggregate expenditures while reallocating resources selectively to priority
sectors. Priority economic and social services were to be improved through reforms, involving
the implementation of a medium-term expenditure framework, shifting the structure and level of
expenditures in line with public expenditure policy. The over-extended public investment
program (PIP) was to be reviewed and paired down from 1400 to 800 projects in FY98.
7.     Social Sector Reforms: The delivery of social services was to be decentralized to the
district/local level, in order to improve their management and financing and, thus, access. Twenty
districts were to be piloted in the first phase of the decentralization. Since user contribution to
cost was to rise, the reforms required giving users more say in the provision of services, and
giving facility level managers authority and flexibility to be responsive to users. Regional level
administrative infrastructures were to be scaled back. There was emphasis on raising the
efficiency of Government-owned and operated schools and health facilities; and on reallocating
budgetary funds towards activities that benefit the poor most. In health, for example, poor access
to drugs and equipment was a major concem, affecting services and staff morale. The policy
adopted earlier to allow private sector provision of social services was to continue.
8.     Parastatal Reforms: The main instruments for reform were privatization, liquidation,
divestiture, abolition of state monopolies and a framework for regulatory and competitive
policies. These reforms were to help limit subsidies to the parastatals and free up underutilized
assets to be employed productively. The privatization of specific small enterprises was to be
monitored under the SAC. These were: Mbeya Cement; Sugar Development Corporation;
Southern Paper Mills; Morogoro Polyester; all mills of the National Milling Corporation; all
commercial activities of the Tanzania Tea Authority and all commercial activities of the Tanzania
Sisal Authority. The program targeted major infrastructure parastatals for reform. These were
the Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL), National Shipping Agencies
Corporation (NASACO), Tanzania Harbor Authority (THA), Tanzania Central Freight Bureau
(TCFB) and marine services of the Tanzania Railways Corporation (TRC).
9.     Banking Sector Reforms: The National Bank of Commerce (NBC) was the most
dominant commercial bank with 63 percent of deposits and 60 percent of total commercial bank
lending. NBC had a poor portfolio and was financially weak even after capital infusion to
strengthen its financial base. Thus, more far-reaching reforms were decided upon to restore its
viability. NBC was to be dissolved and its assets transferred to the three new banks created out of
the dissolution or their holding company. This would be followed by privatization.
10.    Petroleum Marketing and Pricing Reform: Petroleum import and marketing were to
be fully liberalized. Oil companies would import freely to meet their marketing requirements.
Differential pricing of petroleum products would be abolished to allow prices to be in line with
import costs and other costs. The Tanzania Italian Petroleum Refinery Company (TIPER) would
be privatized.
11.   The components of the SAC were substantive and focused on removing structural
obstacles to the efficient use of both public and private investments. Tanzania's socialist legacy
hindered private investments in the past, and there had been limited progress in the reform of
public institutions and effective utilization of public resources to improve basic services. Despite
the Government's commitment to the SAC, there were risks. The reforms might falter because of
political resistance arising from the short-term adverse effects of privatization policies and



3
abolition of price controls. The parastatal reforms required detailed technical preparation and
suitable buyers to ensure that transactions were completed. Administrative shortcomings as well
as lack of technical skills could limit the pace of implementation, especially considering the
complexity of the actions to be taken. While there was possibility of slippage or slow
implementation, the commitment of the top political leadership and the open decision process
being used to enlist support for the reforms were favorable ingredients that could facilitate
progress. The new Government was prepared to act on the momentum of the political will
coming from the elections and to strengthen its position with results. In addition to providing
technical assistance to overcome capacity constraints, a floating tranche mechanism was adopted
to give flexibility to the Government in preparing and implementing the program.
C. Achievement of Objectives
12.   The implementation of the SAC was satisfactory, with the reforms advancing along all
fronts. As noted earlier, some components of the program were modified and strengthened. The
development objectives of the large utility and infrastructure units being privatized were
reinforced with appropriate regulatory reforms. The privatization of marine services division of
TRC was waived as it turned out to be more complex and required more time than envisaged
originally. The complexity of the program and the modifications also led to delayed action on
some measures. But the delays did not result from a softening of Government commitment or
reversal of the thrust of the reforms, and they did not aggravate the problems being addressed so
as to undercut the achievement of the development objectives of the SAC. The direction of the
policy reforms was steady, and the development objectives remained valid. Thus, the SAC was
extended for 18 months to close on June 30 2000 after the final tranche had been released.
13.   Macroeconomic Management: Macroeconomic management remained stable, though
revenues declined. Tax revenues declined in proportion to GDP from 11.9 percent to 10.3
percent during FY97-FY99, reflecting tax reforms that reduced the top import duty rate and
adjusted the intermediate rates, and eliminated nuisance taxes on private investments. Tax
revenues recovered to 10.5 percent of GDP in FYOO and are expected at 11.7 percent of GDP in
FYO1, based on the outcome in the first half of the fiscal year; the reduced tax rates and
elimination of exemptions have helped to broaden the tax base. Tax revenue performance is
expected to improve further as the growth activities, such as mining, tourism and the oil sector,
are brought more firmly into the tax base. Expenditure discipline, aided by stringent cash
budgeting and limits on domestic borrowing, helped to achieve a fiscal surplus (after grants) of
0.2 and 0.5 percent of GDP in each of FY98 and FY99. Inflation decelerated to single digits and
was 7 percent by the end of 1999, compared to 15.4 percent at the end of 1997. Exchange and
interest rates stabilized somewhat. The external accounts remained fragile, as the trade balance
improved only slightly in the year ending June 2000. External reserves coverage for imports rose
from 2.8 to 4.1 months during FY97-FYOO. The outlook for economic growth was strengthened
by increased investment and production in mining, tourism and manufacturing. The average
GDP growth rate stabilized around a growth path of about 4 percent since the mid-1990s,
compared to the wide fluctuations in growth performance of the earlier decade.
14.   Public Resource Management: Limits on the wage bill and decline in interest payments
on debt service led to a fall in recurrent expenditures relative to GDP from 12.9 percent to 10.9
percent. The reduced recurrent outlays made it possible to raise development expenditures in
percent of GDP from 2.6 to 4.0 during FY97-FY99. The PIP was streamlined and number of
projects pruned from 1400 to less than a thousand during FY97-FY98. A medium-term
expenditure framework (MTEF) was implemented in an effort to provide a longer-term homizon
for planning and improving services. The public expenditure review and resource assessment
processes of the MTEF helped to strengthen expenditure prioritization. Sustained improvement



4
in the revenue effort and redressing the problem of domestic arrears are critical for relaxing the
stringent cash budget system and enhancing the effectiveness of the MTEF.
15.    Social expenditures received priority in allocations as well as greater funding, with
support from the Multilateral Debt Fund created by donors. Recurrent expenditure on health rose
at an average annual rate of 33.7 percent during FY97-FY99, and were equivalent to 10.6 percent
of discretionary expenditure in FY99, compared to 8.9 percent in FY97; purchase of drugs
received top priority. The health sector reforms covering transformation of the central medical
stores department, the creation and capitalization of a revolving drug fund, and preparation of an
Action Plan to reduce life years lost to Malaria were carried out. There were exemptions to
contributing to the revolving fund, based on age, ability to pay and sicknesses which have high
public health risk. Adequate and sustainable funding of services remains a serious concern, as the
central ministry absorbed most of the health sector budget. Education remained a top priority,
absorbing about 26 percent of discretionary spending, with emphasis on primary schools, which
accounted for 62 percent in FY99, compared to about 50 percent in most countries. There were
efforts to raise the quality of instruction by raising non-salary spending per pupil by 8 percent in
constant price terms during the period. Private expenditure on secondary education increased,
accompanied by improved school test results. Actions on other education sector reforms have
been taken, and some of these are continuing.  These include training, upgrading and
redeployment of teachers, and measures to reform technical and higher education.
16.    Social Sector Reforms. The initial program to decentralize the delivery of selected social
services at the ministry level was overtaken by a national program for local govemment reform to
transfer the management of the delivery of major services to the local level. The Regional
Administration Act (Number 19) of 1997 redefined the role of regional administrators relative to
local government authorities.  A new legal framework of relations between the central
government and local level governments has been put in place covering the areas of autonomy,
shared responsibilities, monitoring and accountability. The local level structure is being revised
to redefine its functions relative to community organizations and private sector entities. Small
regional secretariats were established to provide technical support to local councils. The
Miscellaneous Amendments Act (Number 6) of 1999 provided for, among other things, a
decentralized management of staff and finances. New regulations on the management of staff by
local authorities became operative in December 2000.  In addition, regulations for the
management of block grants to local administrations became effective in July 2000, with
implementation to be phased in gradually.
17.   The original design of the social sector reforms was modified in line with this broader
local government reform program and to cover all major services, such as education, health,
water, agriculture and roads. Recruitment of education officers and teachers, and staff in district
hospitals has been transferred to the Council. Conditional and unconditional block grant transfers
to local level authorities have been introduced in principle in the FY01 budget. However,
virtually all the block grants in the initial phase are the conditional type, budgeted mainly for
personal emoluments and other specific activities, and would be released on the basis of
appropriate spending plans. The number of local administration areas covered in the first phase
of the program currently under implementation has been raised from 20 in the initial SAC design
to 38, about a third of the country. The existence of adequate capacity at the local level was a
major factor in selecting the local areas included in the first phase, which is to be completed in
December 2001. In addition, the Government adopted an in-house training scheme to strengthen
local level capacity, emphasizing financial planning and management.
18.    Parastatal Reforms. The privatization transactions covered under the SAC constituted
only a small part of a larger reform program initiated in the early 1 990s under the coordination of



5
the Presidential Parastatal Reform Commission, with the objective of limiting the Government as
owner and manager of commercial enterprises. Approximately 150 of the existing 395 parastatals
had been privatized or liquidated prior to the SAC, and this number was estimated to have
increased to over 200 by the end of June, 20001. All the non-strategic parastatals monitored
under the SAC were liquidated or sold except for a few that did not receive successful bids (Table
5). The main significance of privatizing these numerous small enterprises was to convey
consistent signals to the private sector on the new policies and to attract private investments.
19.   After transparent and competitive bids, the sale of 35 percent of TTCL for US$120
million to a consortium of Detecon, an affiliate of Deustche Telekom, and MSI was initialed on
December 7, 2000. Government relinquished management control, while retaining 36 percent of
the shares and reserving the rest for transfer to other private investors and employees of TTCL.
The monopoly of TCFB in negotiating and allocating cargo was abolished. The Dar es Salaam
Container terminal, formerly operated by THA, was leased to The Tanzania International
Container Terminal Services Limited (TICTS). TICTS is a consortium of two private firms, the
International Container Terminal Services Incorporated of the Philippines (75 percent) and a
Tanzanian finance company (25 percent). NASACO's de facto monopoly state was terminated
by licensing twenty five local and foreign firms to compete with it. NASACO had not been a
monopolist by law, but had a monopoly position as a sole operator. A renewable Performance
Contract was signed with TRC; the contract has yet to be implemented and is expected to expire
in December 2001. A waiver was agreed on the divestiture of the Marine Services Division of
TRC; the transactions involved complex corporate and financial restructuring that had not been
anticipated. The regulatory regime is also being revamped. A draft multi-sector regulatory bill has
been discussed with stakeholders. Specific sector regulatory laws will have to be amended to
strengthen the multi-sector regulatory framework.
20.    Banking Reforms. The reforms were implemented with some modification. Two banks
(NBC Ltd., now renamed NBC-1997 and The National Micro-finance Bank Ltd. - NMB), rather
than three, were created from the split of NBC under an Act of Parliament in October 1997. NBC
Ltd., has been successfully privatized. NMB has presence in over 95 percent of the districts, and
is to focus on serving the lower-end, smaller scale rural and urban clients. No bids have been
received for NMB. As an interim measure, NBM is being managed by a private management
team, The Development Alternative Incorporated, under a two-year contract that commenced in
August 1999. The management contract is expected to enhance the chances for privatizing NMB
eventually. The overall banking reforms, including the emergence of private banks, have led to a
more diversified and competitive banking system, the elimination of state-directed lending and an
improved collection of NBC's non-performing loans. Various other initiatives are under way in
the area of micro-finance. The Bank of Tanzania has created a micro-finance directorate, and it is
developing the necessary policy framework to support micro-financing activities.  Four
community banks have been licensed. The Government of Switzerland and the European
Development Bank (EDB) supported the banking sector reforms. An EDB program to provide
resources for on-lending to small investors is being developed with participation from Standard
Chartered Bank, Cooperative and Rural Development Bank, and Stanbic Bank.
21.    Petroleum Marketing and Pricing: The Miscellaneous Amendments Act (1999) gave
the Government authority to reform oil policy. Oil retail prices were fully liberalized in July
1999. Petroleum product imports were fully liberalized in January 2000, making oil companies
responsible for ensuring the adequate supply of petroleum products. The cross-subsidy element
of the prices was removed. The petroleum refinery was not attractive for divestiture once the
It is difficult to establish the precise number of enterprises privatized separately from liquidations and closures. In some cases,
subsidiaries and divisions of enterprises were counted as separate units. In other cases, the final transactions fell through after the bid
had been completed, and the process was restarted and counted again.



6
subsidies were removed; thus, it was closed down and turned into a storage facility, pending
private sector interest and takeover. The reforms fostered the evolution of an oil import and
marketing system led by private investment and management. Oil supply has improved,
especially for the urban areas. The Petroleum Supply Bill is essential to firm up the policy
framework as well as quality assurance and safety guidelines. As a temporary safeguard, Interim
Petroleum Regulations were gazetted on September 1, 2000 pending (i) the finalization of the
multi-sector regulatory framework and (ii) enactment of the Petroleum Supply Bill.
D. Sustainability of Reforms
22.   The SAC advanced the reforms broadly and substantively and arguably marked a turning
point from Tanzania's socialist legacy. Thorny issues, such as opening the economy for broader
private sector participation, divesting the utilities and diversifying the sources of social service
delivery to include private financing, had been resisted by various constituencies and vested
interests in the past. The sustained implementation of the reforms even after the closure of the
SAC means that the policies are not likely to be reversed. Based on the results of a recent survey
in Tanzania, some 75 percent of respondents hold the view that the reforms might slow down in
absence of external support. Broad improvements in living conditions are necessary to strengthen
consensus for the reform process. However, given that the kinds of structural and institutional
reforms being undertaken typically need nurturing to generate significant and lasting benefits,
external assistance will remain important for keeping up the pace of the reforms. The Bank is
supporting the next cycle of reforms under a Programmatic SAC currently under implementation.
E. Bank Performance
23.    Bank performance evolved over the life of the project. The Bank was effective in
working with the Government to identify the substantive reform areas, while respecting the lead
role of the Government. A "Rapid Quality At Entry Assessment" of the SAC undertaken in early
1998 noted that, while some aspects of the SAC, such as the use of floating tranches, were
innovative, it was "doubtful that the institutional capacity to carry out the program is there". The
assessment expressed concerns about the complexity of the reform program, and it gave an
overall rating of "marginally satisfactory." The Bank took these concerns into account in
supervising the project and was effective in forging a strong working relationship with the
Government and supporting capacity building and necessary design changes, which have been
noted earlier. The floating tranche instrument gave the Government flexibility to disentangle the
implementation of the various components of the program, and enabled the Bank to channel
assistance to support progress on each front. The Bank realized the need for an appropriate
regulatory environment for the divestiture of the large-scale utility and infrastructure parastatals
and rightly supported the establishment of regulatory bodies as necessary to achieve the
objectives of the reform. In view of the Government's concern that the initial time frame of the
credit was optimistic, the Bank's willingness to extend the closing date of the Credit was sensible,
since the Government had been making steady implementation progress.
F. Borrower Performance
24.    The borrower's performance in preparing the program  was satisfactory.  During
implementation, the borrower took the lead in seeking to deepen some aspects of the reforms
beyond the initial design; this effort enriched the reform agenda. The borrower's commitment
made it feasible for the Bank to assist in framing the core reform issues coherently in context of
the SAC so that key policy decisions could be made at the very highest levels of the Government.



7
The borrower recognized the need to support in-house capacity training at the local level to make
the implementation of the program feasible. The Government's continuing actions in support of
the reforms even after the closure of the SAC are reassuring in terms of completing the
implementation of the subsequent phases of the program and realizing the expected outcomes.
G. Assessment of Outcome
25.   It is difficult to disentangle the direct contribution of the SAC to the goals it supported,
given the mutually reinforcing contribution of the Government and other donors. Clearly
however, the SAC played a positive and catalytic role in broadening donor support, including
coordinated donor funding for social services, through the Multilateral Debt Fund. In education,
the downward trend in absolute primary school enrollments is being reversed. The numbers of
primary school enrolments improved, though the change in the gross enrollment ratio was
marginal at about 79 percent. Secondary school enrolment rose marginally as a proportion of
primary school cohorts from 5.2 to 5.6 between 1993-97 and 1998. In health, anecdotal evidence
indicates that the sector reforms and the emergence of private pharmaceutical stores contributed
to eliminating drug supply shortages in some areas. While these results are encouraging, the
structural and institutional contents of the SAC have multi-year dimensions, and these require that
the Government sustain the implementation effort in order to yield lasting outcomes.
26.   The credibility of the privatization program has also given impetus to private investments
in mining, petroleum, tourism, banking and manufacturing. Foreign private investments averaged
over US$160 million a year during 1997-99, compared to US$46 million a year in the first half of
the 1990s. The economy is on a more stable growth path, due to hamessing existing potential in
the sectors that are attracting private investments. The declining trend of the manufacturing sector
in the early 1990s is being reversed gradually. Non-traditional exports are beginning to show
response, for example, fish and fish products, handicrafts, manufacturing, horticulture, gold, and
diamond. The average GDP growth rate of the past four years of approximately 4 percent is more
steady than the inconsistent performance of the earlier decades. The outlook for achieving the
higher economic growth rate anticipated by the SAC remains very promising as indicated by the
upward trajectory of the GDP growth path at 4 percent in 1998, 4.7 percent in 1999 and a
provisional estimate of 5.2 percent in 2000.
27.   Assessing the poverty impact of the SAC and the coordinated effort of the donors is not
easy. One could imagine that an overall desirable poverty outcome has been realized, based on
the satisfactory implementation of the program and the substantial progress made on the policy
objectives. In other words one would expect the consolidation of macroeconomic stability, the
movement to a more steady economic growth path and opening of job opportunities in the
growing sectors, together with improved support for social services, to raise living conditions or
at least strengthen the basis for tackling poverty reduction more effectively. However, there is no
independent and reliable information to indicate what actually happened to poverty.  The
analytical work that can provide concrete insight on the evolution of poverty and social outcomes
is currently under way.
H. Follow-up Activities
28.   The reform program enabled Tanzania to establish a track record, which aided her
readiness for participation in the HIPC. Various follow-up issues are being taken up in the
Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit, which went to Board on June 15, 2000 along with
the CAS for FY01-FY03, and is currently being implemented. A central issue is the slow
response of the private sector in taking advantage of investment opportunities, especially in



8
agriculture. Exploiting linkages among agriculture, mining, tourism and manufacturing is
essential to achieve the broad-based economic growth that can reduce poverty significantly.
There is a need to tackle bottlenecks in the agricultural sector, including the infusion of new
technologies, establishing boundaries for land titles, land survey and registration, and land
valuation. Equally important are measures that can relax limits on internal trade and provide
access to credit for farmers. It has been noted that opening up more areas with significant growth
potential by linking the road networks with the ports, shipping and rail is critical to exploit
potential gains from the reform of these infrastructure parastatals.
29.    The final phase of the decentralization program is to be completed by December, 2003.
The authority of local level agencies to make spending decisions in line with broad national goals
as well as local level priorities has to evolve, and the relations between regional, district and local
level staff and committees have to be clarified. Other emerging concerns include the roles and
authority of the various professional commissions (such as the Teachers Service Commission)
and local level institutions, appropriate training to fill skill gaps at the local level, identifying
vertical programns that can be integrated without undermining the delivery of critical services; and
coordinated "basket financing" by donors to help strengthen local level authorities.
30.   In the area of parastatal reform and petroleum marketing, the regulatory framework and
institutions need strengthening to function in promoting private investment while safeguarding
competition, quality and safety standards. The risks related to new entrants into the oil industry,
who have no skills in oil hazard management and quality assurance, need to be managed. The
Petroleum Supply Bill aimed at establishing the rules of the game and performance standards,
including risks related, for example, to quality and fire safety, provides a start. A draft of the bill
to set a multi-sector regulatory body for the utilities has been discussed openly with stakeholders.
Specific sector regulatory laws will have to be amended to strengthen the multi-sector framework.
Passage of necessary legislation, an operational legal framework, skilled staff, competition
policy, procedures and facilities are essential for the regulatory institutions to achieve the reform
objectives of delivering high quality services at competitive prices to households and businesses.
31.    Investment in administrative capacity is critical to shift the role and functions of the line
ministries from involvement in managing commercial concerns and project execution to policy
making, monitoring and facilitating private investments. In other areas, it has been noted that
putting new investments on hold during the divestiture process for some utilities, with the
expectation that such investments will be undertaken by the new owners, may have accentuated
capacity constraints. A tracking study of foreign investments being undertaken by the BOT and
Tanzania Investment Center will throw light on this issue and how to respond to it effectively.
I. Key Lessons Learned
32.    Political Commitment: Government commitment has been key to the progress made in
implementing the SAC, especially given its broad scope and complexity. This commitment
helped to strengthen cooperation between the Bank and the Government and provided a basis to
focus Bank assistance on redressing technical and capacity constraints.  For example, the
modification of the social sector reforms noted earlier was feasible because the Government had
already made a political decision and was initiating actions to undertake a much stronger
decentralization than initially envisaged under the program. With such Government commitment,
technical assistance (TA) served to redesign the program accordingly and to adopt a phased
implementation plan, taking into account local level capacity constraints. A reform program
needs not falter simply because of its ambitious scope and complexity, if there is Government
commitment and willingness to play a lead role, and Bank flexibility to assist in mitigating
capacity and other technical factors constraining effective implementation.



9
33.   Providing a TA or project lending in an environment of fast changes in technology and
without the context of a clear framework for sector policy reform turned out to have drawbacks in
terms of limiting the progress of some of the reform actions for the utilities. Earlier Bank support
in the development of the utilities, for example, was aimed at enhancing the efficiency of
enterprises envisaged to remain in the public domain in the foreseeable future; the policy content
of Bank support was most often minimal, and the TA and investment projects were often seen as
supporting the entrenchment of the existing system of management of the public entities. On the
other hand, with the advances in technology, privatization policies being advocated and pursued
sought to withdraw the state from managing the same commercial concerns. This lack of clarity
aided resistance to the reforms. The adjustment program helped to frame these conflicting issues
coherently and moved them to a level where political consensus on sector policy and measures
could be reached. The adjustment program has been instrumental for focusing attention on
generic and multi-sector policy issues that circumscribe the effectiveness of each individual
project or TA program. In addition, the over-arching framework of the SAC facilitated the role of
the top political leadership and central policy organs, such as the Ministry of Finance, in
monitoring the implementation of agreed policies by sector departments.
34.   Sequencing. With hindsight, the sequencing of actions and the initial time frame
envisaged for implementing the SAC was optimistic, although it may have served a useful
purpose in conveying a sense of urgency within the Government and a need to act sooner rather
than later. The institutional and structural measures to be taken by the Government had a
medium-term perspective, while the horizon of the SAC was much shorter. The Bank took this
factor into account by being flexible, including using floating tranches to give the Government a
measure of control in timing its actions. Yet, from the Government's experience, there was
uncertainty about the timing of tranche releases, which were linked directly to the financing of the
budget.   The follow-up  Programmatic Structural Adjustment Credit currently  under
implementation seeks to provide a more realistic time frame for implementation by building on
the medium-term frame of the government's program. Realistic sequencing has also been an
issue with regard to the privatization of the large infrastructure public enterprises. For example,
the creation of necessary multi-sector regulatory regimes for the infrastructure entities (marine
services, aviation, road transport and railways) and the utilities took more time than expected. In
some instances, sequencing the due diligence process for the parastatals to take place after the
bids led to reopening the bids as new pertinent data became available. The new privatization
process approved by the Government involves sequencing the bids to take place after due
diligence. In other areas, some officials noted that a more selective emphasis on those actions
that have potential to confer significant impact could encourage timely action. The officials
pointed to the salutary role of co-financing, especially in a large reform program. Exploiting
opportunities for co-financing among donors has been helpful to limit duplicative preparation of
documents and to optimize the use of government capacity.



10
PART Il: ATTACHEMENT TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Table 3: Project Preparation Timetable
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators
Table 7: Major Studies Included in the Project
Table 8a: Project Cost
Table 8b: Project Financing
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Particular Covenants
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Tables 9 and 11 are not applicable



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of objectives               Substantial           Partial        Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                            z X
Sector policies                                  Z     X
Financial objectives                                  |        |   X
Institutional development                    I         XL |1IIr1I
Physical objectives                         i                  I                                       X I
Poverty reduction                           Z           X                                                   .ZI
Gender issues                                 I                                         .IIIl          X
Other social objectives                     I
Environmental objectives                   I                                        l                  X
Public sector management                 |IXil                 L               E
Private sector development                  ZiX           |I                          1           I        I
Other (specify)                            L                    Lfl                                        _ i
B. Project sustainability                                       Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank performance                                              Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                           L                                       l  X1|
Preparation assistance                     I                   L                    X
Appraisal                                    i                    i                               |   X
Supervision                                      Z             L   X 
D. Borrower performance                                           Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                              1  i                  LIIZ                 x
Implementation                             L                      i                 W
Covenant compliance                      ,                      L      l            x
Highly                                                   Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                  satisfactory         Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory
i                        W    XIZ IL IE



12
Table 2: Related Bank Operations
Credit Title                        Purpose as it                Fiscal Year            Status
relates to SAC
Ports Modernization Project           Liberalization of shipping and freight     199(               Closed
policy and privatization
Petroleum Rehabilitation Project      Liberalization of petroleum marketing      1991               Closed
and privatization of TIPER
Railways Restructuring Project        Restructuring and privatization of the     1991               Closed
railways
Financial Institution Development     Restructuring and privatization of         1996               Closed
Project                               NBC and improving financial services
Private and Public Sector Management    Banking reform and establishment of      1993               Closed
Project                               regulatory framework for privatized
utilities and infrastructure entities
Telekom III Project                   Restructuring and privatization of         1993              On-going
Telekom
Health and Nutrition Project          Improve health service delivery by         1990               Closed
supporting the supply of pharmaceutics
Private and Public Sector Reform Project  Privatization and private sector      2000               On-going
development



13
Table 3: Project Preparation Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned                             Actual Date
Identification (executive project                     01/31/93                                04114/94
summary)
Preparation                                           08/11/94                                08111194
Appraisal                                             03/17/97                                03/17/97
Negotiations                                          04/28/97                                04/28/97
Letter of development policy                          05/02/97                                05/02/97
Board presentation                                    06/20/97                                06/20/97
Signing                                               09/12/97                                09/12/97
Effectiveness                                         10/101/97                               10/01/97
First floating tranche release                        12/31/98                                10/01/97
Second floating tranche release                       12/31/98                                04/15/99
Third Floating tranche release                        12/31/98                               06//22/99
Fourth floating tranche release                       12/31/98                                12/14/99
Loan closing                                          12/31/98                               06/30/2000



14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY97               FY98              FY99            FY00
Appraisal Estimates
First tranche                   36.15
Social sector tranche                               18.1
Parastatal reform tranche                           10.85
Banking Reform tranche                              18.1
Petroleum reform tranche                            7.2
Actual                          36.15               0.0               36.2            18.05
Actual as % of estimate         100%                0.0               67.0/1         33.0/1
04/14/99        12/20/99
Date of disbursement           10/01/97                                and             and
06/25/99       06/23/00
Disbursement of IDA               2.8                                  1.8             1.9
reflows
08/24/99
Date of Disbursement           10/01/97                              12/21/98          and
12/28/99
Date of closing                                                                      6/30/00
/I Note: Percent of floating tranches



15
Table 5: Key Indicators of Program Implementation
Expected Action                                                             Actual Action/Timing
A. PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
a. Achieve an overall fiscal balance consistent with program.                   (a) The overall fiscal balance, including grants, averaged a small surplus (0.03 percent of
GDP) during the three year period FY97-FY99.
b. Rationalize development spending and ensure adequate financing of priority projects.
(i)     Screen development project portfolio and reduce the number of projects from  (i) The PIP was reviewed and number of projects consolidated to less than 800 in FY98
1400 to 800 or less for FY98;                                          and to 540 by FY99.
(ii)    Make adequate provision in the cabinet approved proposals for development  (ii) Required allocation provided in FY98 budget prior to Credit effectiveness
spending in the FY98 budget.
B. SOCIAL SECTOR REFORMS
1. Education
a. Increase share of primary school spending from 60.4 percent in FY96 to 64 percent in  (a) Share of primary school spending rose from 60.4 percent in FY96 to 64 percent in
FY98.                                                                           FY98 prior to Credit effectiveness. Share estimated at 65.6 percent in FY00.
b. Adopt a time bound action plan for implementation, addressing recruitment, training,  (b)Teacher audit (including headcount and skill profile) essential to undertake
deployment, redeployment, upgrading and incentive for primary school teachers.  deployment/redeployment has been completed; data being processed. Upgrading program
for 33,500 grade C-B teachers is being implemented. Training of Head teachers, School
Committees, and District Education Board is in progress.
c. Decentralize the primary school system in the interest of efficiency.
(i)     Prepare an action plan for the transfer of the management of primary schools to  (i) An Action plan has been prepared. The Miscellaneous Amendment Act (1999), which
the local school committees;                                            amends the Local Governments Act (1982) put in place a framework for decentralization
Central and Local Government and provides for decentralized management of staff and
finances.
(ii)    Issue a ministerial circular providing for District Education Officers and teachers  (ii) A circular issued from  the Prime Minister's Office in January. 1999 shifting
to be recruited and hired (subject, in the case of District Education Officers, to  responsibilities for recruitment of District Education Officers and teachers to District
approval by the ministry responsible for education) by the District Councils in at  Councils in 38 local authorities. Concurrently, circulars were issued by the Civil Service
Department to the Regional Administrative Secretaries, local authorities and relevant



16
Expected Action                                                                    Actual Action/Timing
least 20 pilot districts.                                                     commissions instructing them  to issue individual letters of reassignment for these
employees of local authorities.
(iii)    Issue a circular transferring all subsidies for primary education in pilot districts to  (iii) The FY01 budget made provisions for conditional and unconditional block grants for
the District Councils as block grants to cover salaries and other expenses based on   education, health water and roads.  The budget allocations were guided by service
a formula agreed upon between the Government and IDA.                         standards. Fund release from  block grant requires the submission of a work plan.
(Reference: Local Government Amendment Act. No 6, 1999).
d. Reform technical and higher education.  Prepare an action plan for the reform  and  (d) Cabinet Policy Paper was prepared in February, 1999, and an Action Plan for the
rationalization of higher education and technical training.                            rationalization of higher education was approved by Cabinet.  A survey of tertiary
institutions to inform the rationalization process is in progress.
11. Health
e. Improve health sector planning and financing.
(i)      Implement a program to finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to  (i) Implementation to pilot a hospital-based drug revolving fund was carried out in 20
hospitals within the framework of a hospital-based revolving fund, which involves  districts to: ensure continuos supply of essential drugs and medical supplies at hospitals,
cost-sharing and subsidies, with patients covering at least 50 percent of the costs.   train and improve management of hospital pharmnacies and enhance financial sustainability
and autonomy for hospital drug management. The program was aimed to finance the full
cost of pharmaceuticals at hospitals through cost-sharing and government subsidies, with
communities covering 50 percent of costs. Operational procedures and accounting
guidelines are in place. Extemal evaluation of the pilot was carried out, which is under the
Govemment's review.
(ii)    Issue a ministerial circular providing for District Medical Officers and district-  (ii) All staff working in the District Hospitals have been transferred to the respective
level health staff to be recruited and hired (subject, in the case of District Medical      District C s w e     d     the C c to   thenregulationseissuedtby
Officers, to approval by the Ministry of Health) by the District Councils in at least  thOffice of Prise Minister in January, 1999 emCouncis through the regulations issued b
20 districts.                                                                 teOfc   fPieMnse  nJnay  99epwrn   5lclatoiist  eri
and hire health officers.  Concurrently, circulars were issued by the Civil Service
Department to the Regional Administrative Secretaries, local authorities and relevant
commissions as mentioned earlier (See c (ii)).
(iii)    Issue circular transferring the budget for health centers and dispensaries in such  (iii) Under the local Govemment Act of February, 1999, the Govemment issued
districts to the District Councils as block grants to cover salaries and other  conditional and unconditional grants (in the FY01 budget) directly to local authorities for
expenses.                                                                     four activities, including health. (See c(iii)).
(iv)    Prepare an Action Plan to reduce the life years lost to malaria.               (iv) Malaria Action Plan is being implemented, with emphasis on growing problem of
parasite resistance to first line drug, chloroquine.  This involves reviewing existing
protocols for treatment and more expensive first line drugs and treatment costs. New
I policies for treating malaria include information/education, community funding to provide



17
Expected Action                                                              Actual Action/Timing
access to services and expanded use of treated mosquito nets. The Government is in the
process of training staff on the new treatment protocols.
C. PARASTATAL SECTOR REFORMS
a. Take all steps within the control of the Government to bring the following parastatals to
the point of sale:
(i)     Mbeya Cement.                                                            (i) Taken over by CDC in August, 1998.
(ii)    Sugar Development Corporation.                                           (ii) Subsidiary assets sold except Kagera Sugar, which had no successful bids. SDC to be
rounded up after all subsidiary assets have been sold.
(iii)    Southern Paper Mill.                                                    (iii) Offers made repeatedly, without success. Prospective investors demanded concessions
and subsidies that have been acceptable.
(iv)    Morogoro Polyester.                                                      (iv) Sold to Mohamed Enterprises.
(v)     National Milling Corporation /all mills to be sold.                      (v) Seven core assets and 98 non-core assets have been offered for sale. All mills sold,
except Mtwara; Arusha and parts of Iringa and Dar, which had no successful bids.
(vi)    Tanzania Tea Authority all commercial activities to be sold.             (vi) Divestiture of commercial assets completed, except Tanzania Tea Blending, which has
had no successful bids.
(vii)    Tanzania Sisal Authority- all commercial concerns to be sold.           (vii) All commercial processing plants have been divested.
b. THA
Concession of container terminal.
(i)     Enter into a contract with consultants to prepare detailed proposals on the different  (i) TOR for privatization study of Container Terminal and Grain Terminal finalized in
concession arrangements, including their duration;                       October 1997 and Agreement on the study signed in December, 1997.
(ii)    Award a concession for the container terminal to a private enterprise for the
management of the container terminal at Dar es Salaam Port.             (ii) Lease agreement for container terminal signed on May 5, 2000 for a period of 10 years
with a consortium comprising The International Container Terminal Services Incorporated
of Philippines and Tanzania International Container Terminal Services Limited. Operator
took over on September 10, 2000.



18
Expected Action                                                              Actual Action/Timing
c. NASACO
Revoke the current monopoly and entry licensing restrictions for shipping agency services  (c) NASACO's monopoly has been terminated. Six local and foreign firms have been
and allow these services to be open to intemational competition.                 licensed to operate along side NASACO.
d. TCFB
Amend the Tanzania Central Freight Bureau Act so as to revoke the authority of the TCFB  (d) TCFB Establishment Act (1981) was amended in January 2000 and becamne effective
or any other agency to exclusively negotiate freight rates.                      on July 1, 2000. TCFB no longer has exclusive authority to negotiate or allocate cargo.
Study is under way on a regulatory framework and future role of the public sector in the
marine industry and the role of TFCB.
e. TRC
(i)     Sign performance contract with TRC which will include compensation to TRC for  (i) Current Performance Contract to end in December 2001 and is renewable. Road
unprofitable branch lines, passengers services and marine services and an explicit  Marine services made in to corporate entity. Closure of unprofitable services agreed.
agreement to allow TRC to close any or all other unprofitable services.  Road services closed; non-core services, such as Eatery, divested.
(ii)    Take all steps to bring to the point of sale the Marine Services Division, (including  (ii) The privatization process for the Marine services division is taking more time than
all maintenance and repair shop), which is a separate autonomous entity with its  originally envisaged because it involves first incorporating the unit. The Government has
own financial statement. [Bring to the point of sale means: carried out a valuation  requested a waiver on this condition, because of the time needed to prepare and act on
of the enterprise or division as the case may be; prepared an information  reforms. Marine services have been constituted into a corporate entity; a study to develop
memorandum for the enterprise or division in question as the case may be;  options for divestiture has been completed; a Cabinet Paper is being prepared on
solicited offers directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers;  parameters of the specific option to be implemented.
evaluated any offers and selected successful bidder(s); and invited the successful
bidder(s) to enter into good faith negotiations].
(iii)    Reach an agreement with Parastatal Sector reform Commission and call for bids.   (iii) Bids to be called in January, 2001. (Waiver on this condition)
f TFICL
(i)     Prepare a comprehensive competition policy for the telecommunication sector.  (i) Competitive policy prepared prior to effectiveness.
(ii)    Complete consultations necessary to privatize TTCL, including those with the  (ii) Consultation with concemed donors held. No objections were officially expressed.
Japanese and Swedish donor agencies that have provided assistance to the  Japan has endorsed Govemment majority share ownership.
telecommunication sector.
(iii)    Select key advisors to carry out the divestiture operation.             (iii) Rothschild was selected as an advisor.



19
Expected Action                                                              Actual Action/Timing
(iv)    Prepare and distribute information Memorandum and offer for sale. Call for a first  (iv) Call for bids was successful. Cabinet approved the consortium of Detecon and MSI,
round of bids and enter into good faith negotiations.                   both affiliates of Deustche Telekom of Germany to acquire 35 percent equity in TTCL for
$120 million. On September 21, 2000, the Government submitted for registration the 35
percent shares for transfer to the successful bidder. The transfer is to be effective one
month after the submission (215' October, 2000). Sixteen percent of shares have been
transferred to other private investors. Government has retained 49 percent shares.
D. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Restructure and divest NBC
(i)     Publish NBC's audited FY95-96 Financial Statement (Board).               (i) The required audited accounts published prior to Board.
(ii)    Dissolve NBC and transfer its assets to the three new banks created out of NBC or  (ii) Two banks, rather than three, were created out of NBC: NBC Ltd., and NMB.
their holding company (effectiveness).
(iii)    Prepare and distribute investment memoranda for each of the three banks; solicit  (iii) The banks were offered for sale in two rounds in July and December, 1998. Four
offers directly or through advertisements in appropriate newspapers, from   offers were received for NBC Ltd., from Stanbic South Africa, First Adili Bank Tanzania
commercial banks meeting agreed criteria; evaluate offers and select successful  Ltd.; Allied Banks of South Africa (ABSA) and Barclays of London. Negotiations with the
bidder(s), if any, and invite successful bidders to enter into good faith  successful bidder, ABSA, were concluded in March, 1999. ABSA has taken control over
negotiations.                                                           NBC Ltd. No offers were received for NMB. GOT contracted with a qualified firm to
manage the Bank, to continue enforcement of MOU to sustain prudential management and
organize investor's conference to promote the Bank.
E. PETROLEUM SECTOR REFORM
Import and price liberalization
(i) Miscellaneous Amendments Act (1999) gave the minister the authority to reform  oil
(i)     Abolish all prices and import controls (in line with Finance Act of 1998).  policy. Retail prices fully liberalized in July, 1999. Petroleum product imports were fully
liberalized in January, 2000. Oil companies are now responsible for ensuring the adequate
supply of petroleum products.
(ii) Oil tax structure was simplified; the number of taxes imposed for revenue purposes and
(ii)    Remove tax differentials between different petroleum products.           for the Road Fund were reduced from 10 to 5. The cross-subsidy element of the prices
was removed.



20
Table 6: Key Performance Indicators
Expected                      Actual
FY97      FY98       FY99    FY97       FY98      FY99
Intermediate Indicator
Public Resource Management
Domestic Revenue (% of GDP)                          Increase             13.5     12.0        11.5
Tax Revenue (% of GDP)                               Increase             11.9     11.0        10.3
Fiscal balance (+ surplus) (% of GDP)               average 0.9           2.0       0.2         0.5
Recurrent Expenditure (% of GDP)                     decrease             12.5       11.0      10.9
Wages & salaries (% of GDP)                          decrease             4.7        4.2        3.7
Development expenditure % of GDP                     increase             2.6        3.8        4.0
Social sector (% of recur expenditures)              increase            26.2       27.6       29.5
Education (% of discretionary expend)                increase             21.1       22.1      18.9
Primary education (% of education)                      64                           62        62
Health (% of discretionary expenditure)              increase             8.9       10.5       10.6
Drugs (% of health expenditure)                 increase
Financial Peraornance
Inflation rate                                       decrease             16.1       12.8       7.9
'Treasury bill rate (weighted average)/              decrease            10.3       13.2       11.0
Gross fixed capital formation                        increase            14.7        15.6      15.2
Private investments (% of GDP)                       increase            11.8        12.4      12.1
Gross domestic savings                               increase             6.2        6.4        6.2
Non-traditional exports (% of total exports)         increase            42.2       39.7       48.5
Outcome Indicator
GDP Growth rate                                     average 4.0                  average 4.0
Agricultural growth rate)                            increase            1.5       2.3          4.2
Manufacturing growth rate                            increase            5.0       8.0          3.6
Incidence of headcount poverty                       decrease                      50.5         ----
Gross Primary school enrollment                      increase                      79           ----
Primary enrollment for girls                         increase
Infant mortality (under 5)                           decrease            ----   85 per 1000      ---
Incidence of malaria                                 decrease            ---         ----      N/A



21
Table 7: Major Studies Included in Project
Study              Purpose of Study           Status            Impact of Study
To assess the commercial
TIPER Study           viability of the TIPER and   Completed       Closure of TIPER
prospects for privatization
Study     of    the  To inform the design of the    TOR agreed in    Used to  assess different
Privatization     of concession  of  Dar  es   October 1997 and   concession arrangements for
Container Terminal and  salaam port.            completed in 1999.  the Dar es salaam port.
Grain Terminal
To  prepare  competition     Completed      Informed  the  design  of
policy     for     the                      regulatory  framework  for
Competition policy for telecommunication sector                    telecommunication sector.
Telecommunication
sector
study                 To. prepare action plan for  Completed       Upgrading,  training  and
training, upgrading  and                    deployment of teachers
deployment of teachers
Survey of profile and
headcount of teachers    To support rationalization  Completed     Preparation of Action Plan
program for technical and                   to rationalize higher and
higher education                            technical education
Survey of tertiary    To develop  options for      Completed       Preparing Cabinet Paper on
institutions          divestiture                                  divestiture  options  for
marine services
Budgetary   management    On-going on an    Expenditure  prioritization
Study of Marine       and  rationalization   of    annual basis    and  resource  shifts  to
services division     expenditures                                 priority social sectors.
Public expenditure    Budget preparation  and       On-going       Annual budget preparation
Reviews               implementation



22
Table 8a: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                       Actual
(US $ million)                                    (US$ million)
Local Cost         Foreign Costs           Total  Local Costs        Foreign Costs           Total
100                    100                       128.90               128.90
Table 8b: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate                                      Actual
(US S Million)                                    (US $ Million)
Source       Local Costs    Foreign Costs   Total  Local Costs        Foreign Costs          Total
IDA                              100           100                      128.90              128.90
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable



23
Table 10: Status of Particular Covenants
Loan Agreement                        Description of Covenant                       Comments
Section        _______
Schedule 2.02d (ii)    The borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with   Condition met
the objectives of the program
Schedule 3.01      The borrower and association shall, from time to time, at the request   Condition met
(a)          of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 of this
Agreement
(b)          Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress   Condition met
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(c)          Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on    Condition met
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Schedule 3.02         Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:              Audit not
(a)          Have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate  requested
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b)          Furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the date of the Association's request for  No request made
such audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(c)          Furnish to the Association such other information concerning the
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have  No request made
reasonably requested.
Table 11: Compliance with Operational manual
Not Applicable



24
Table 12: Bank Resource- Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual                Actual
I__________________                       _Weeks                US$000
Preparation to Appraisal                   107.3                  289.9
Appraisal                                  53.8                  167.0
Negotiations through Board Approval
Supervision                                 40.4                 118.24
Completion                                   2                    10.00
Total                                      203.5                  585.1



25
Table 13: Bank Resources-Missions
Stage of        Month/    Number    Days in    Specialized         Performance        Rating         Type of
Project Cycle       year         of        Field      Staff skills   Implementation   Development    Problems
persons                                  Status          Objective
Through Appraisal    Jan 93-       14         73         Econ/AII
Aug 96
Appraisal &       Mar 97-        8         30         Econ/AII
Negotiations      Dec 97
through Board
Approval
Supervision (Initial                2                                        S                s
Project summary)
Supervision      Aug 98-        5       Supervisi     Econ/All       Extension of                     Capacity
Jun 00                on leader                   closing date                     problems
in                                                       requiring
Resident                                                       TA
mission                                          S
Completion         Oct 00        5          10                            S                S
&
DecO0



26
Appendix I
Tanzania:
Aide Memoire of Preparation Mission for SAC I.
December 15, 2000
A World Bank mission visited the United Republic of Tanzania during December 10 to
the 15th to work with the authorities to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for SAC I.
Participants in the mission were: Ms. Tone Tinnes (Resident Economist, Royal Norwegian
Embassy), representing the Norwegian Government, which co-financed the SAC; Ms. M
Mwakangale (Visiting Missions' Staff Assistant) B. Tarimo (Senior Economist); P. Mpango
(Economist), V. Rwechungura (Program Officer) and A. Agbonyitor (Task Coordinator). B.
Ndulu (Lead Economist) is the cluster leader. The mission paid a visit to the National Oil
(Tanzania) Ltd., a beneficiary of the Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project and oil sector reform
component of the SAC. The mission wishes to acknowledge its appreciation for the effective way
the authorities organized discussion meetings, and provided documentation to prepare the ICR. In
addition, the Government prepared an independent assessment of the implementation of the SAC,
which will constitute a section of the final ICR. A preliminary draft of the mission papers is
attached. This note highlights a few issues.
The mission's assessment, including findings in the attached documents, are preliminary,
subject to review by Bank Management. Based on the preliminary assessment, the overall
implementation experience of the SAC is satisfactory. The SAC was based on a reform program
that is owned by the Government. This Government ownership and demonstrated commitment to
implementing the SAC at the time of its design was sustained in its execution phase. In addition,
both the authorities and Bank exercised flexibility in modifying some aspects of the program as
necessary and, thereby, strengthening the program as its implementation evolved.
The Government's program supported by the SAC involved macroeconomic stabilization
objectives and restructuring of specific public institutions, including financial and non-financial
public enterprises, as well as a program of decentralization to improve local level services. It is
difficult to evaluate the reform's impact on living conditions. The preliminary assessment
indicates that recent economic developments, for example, in investments and growth are in the
right direction. Sustained macroeconomic stability, enlistment of private sector management and
capital to improve the performance of major public investment assets, and the new legal
framework being used to reorganize services at the local level stand to improve the prospects for
economic and social growth.
The authorities are aware that the implementation of the key reforms that need to be
phased, for example, the decentralization program, privatization transactions, and strengthening
of sector policy and institutional framework for privatized entities have to be followed through to
yield lasting results. Some officials noted that emphasis on selective conditionalities that have
potential to confer significant impact is essential. In addition, realistic sequencing and timing of
the completion of reform actions and exploitation of opportunities for co-financing among donors
could limit demands on government capacity and enhance effective implementation.



27
Appendix II
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



28
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSMENT CREDIT I
Implementation Completion Report
External Finance Department
Ministry of Finance,
P.O. Box 9111,
Dar es Salaam.
December, 2000



29
Background:
1.    The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC I) was premised on the Government's strong
commitment to continue with the economic adjustment measures so as to boost
economic performance.  Specifically, the government endeavored to restate the
macroeconomic stability through focussing on enhancing efficient use of capital so as
to accelerate economic growth.
2.     To this end, the government promised to continue to withdraw its direct involvement
in productive activities, improve domestic and external competitiveness, accelerate
export diversification and enhance efficiency in the use of public resources. Against
this economic objective, SACI was formulated in line with the following
Government medium term (1996/97 - 1998/99) overall macroeconomic objectives:
(i) attain real GDP growth of 5 percent in 1996/97 rising to 6 percent by the end of
the program period in 1998/99; (ii) reduce the average rate of inflation to 15 percent
in 1996/97 and to 5 percent in 1998/99; (iii) achieve government savings of 1.1
percent of GDP in 1996/97 with further improvement to 2.5 percent of GDP in
1998/99; (iv) reduce the external current deficit (excluding grants) to 15.1 percent of
GDP in 1996/97 and to 13.2 percent of GDP in 1998/99; and (v) maintain a stable and
competitive exchange rate, while increasing gross official reserves to the equivalent
of at least four months of imports.
3.    Negotiations for SAC I were held in Washington D.C. from 28 April to May 2, 1997
between the representatives of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania
(URT) and the International Development Association (IDA). On September 12,
1997 the Development Credit Agreement was signed. The adjustment credit
amounting to SDR 93 million (US$ 133 million) included floating tranches in four
areas i.e. Social Sector Tranche, Parastatal Reform Tranche, Banking Sector Tranche,
and Petroleum Sector Tranche. The Government of the Kingdom of Norway also co-
financed a grant amounting to twenty five million Norwegian Kroner, while the
Government of Switzerland contributed a Trust Fund amounting to CHF 12 million
(US$ 7.7 million) which was administered and disbursed with the credit.
4.     SAC I included a comprehensive package of policies aimed at reducing the budget
deficit and improving monetary control, liberalizing the trade regime, removing most
price controls, easing restrictions on the marketing of agricultural products and
liberalizing interest rates. The programme underpinned policy reforms in four main
areas:- i.e. improvement in the delivery of social services, scaling back the
involvement of Government in commercial activities through the privatization of
public enterprises, including seven large parastatals, concession of port and railway
infrastructure for improved delivery of services, liberalization of the petroleum
sector, communication and shipping services, and the privatization of the financial
sector.
Execution:
5.    The implementation of SAC I involved all key ministries/sectors i.e. Finance,
Planning  Commission,  Education,  Health,  Higher  Education,  Regional
Administration and Local Government, Civil Service Department, Communications
and Transport, Industries and Trade, PSRC, BOT, TRC, TTCL, THA and NASACO.
There were broad consultations first on defining responsibilities, and second on the
strategies and means of achieving the objectives of the programme.



30
6.     The first tranche, together with Tanzania's FY 97 IDA re-flow allocation of SDR
38.95 million, was released on 1" October, 1997 when the cross-sector effectiveness
conditions were met. IDA reflows allocation for FY98 of SDR 1.8 million was added
to the credit and disbursed through an amendment of the Credit Agreement.
Mid term Review:
7.     The mid-term review of SAC I was undertaken in August 1998 to assess the overall
implementation of the credit. Though generally satisfactory, the assessment led to a
recommendation to extend the credit closing date to December 1999 as a result of
unforeseen technical conditions and procedural issues. These constraints included:-
*  Under the social sector tranche, a primary risk in the Local Government Reform
Programme adopted by the Government was the weakness in design in the initial
phase, that might have affected the effectiveness of the decentralization process.
More specifically, the local authorities lacked adequate capacity for designing
multi-sector programmes.  Generally, mechanisms for ensuring consistency
between national priorities and local programmes were not fully in place.
e  Under the petroleum sector tranche, there were a number of critical constraints
which hindered a timely implementation of the required condition for liberalizing
the sub-sector. The modernization of the Kurasini Oil Jetty (KOJ) was at that
time scheduled to be completed in November, 1999, and a complete liberalization
of oil imports could not be accomplished before then due to off-loading capacity
constraints at the port.
-  Under the parastatal sector tranche, three cases faced technical and political
constraints which needed to be addressed separately. The sale of SPM did not
materialize in spite of repeated offers for sale.  The main issues were the
uneconomic scale of operations, the accumulated arrears of electricity bills and
non-competitive energy costs, and the political constraint of abandoning the
township which depended on the paper mill's existence. In the case of two sugar
factories under SUDECO - TPC and Kagera - similar technical constraints were
encountered.  These included uneconomic scale, high debt burden of the
enterprises and prevalence of sugarcane plant disease in the case of TPC.
Although additional land was secured to enable the expansion of the scale of
operations for TPC, the other constraints continued to deter potential investors.
Social Sector Tranche
8.     The floating tranche for the Social Sector Reform was released in April 15, 1999
upon full compliance with the agreed conditions laid down in the credit agreement,
that is:
9.     During the mid - term review, it was found that the condition relating to theissuing
of block grants to 20 pilot districts for both education and health could not proceed
as originally envisaged as a result of fundamental change in the approach to
decentralization under the Local Government Reform Programme. The Government
decided to issue conditional and unconditional grants directly to local authorities for
all activities rather than through sector ministries as in the past.



31
10.   In order to accommodate the change, the tranche release condition put emphasis on
setting up necessary arrangements for ensuring effectiveness under the new set up.
More specifically, the Government undertook to:
*  Prepare and adopt an action plan for determining priority areas for strengthening
capacity in the 38 local authorities, instead of 20 pilot districts, including a
financing plan, instead of 20 pilots districts;
*  Set up and adopt transparent systems for disbursement and accounting for the
block grants; and
*  Develop  and adopt a system  for ensuring consistency  between district
programmes and sector - wide/national policy priorities.
11.  The Government addressed the above undertakings as follows:
*  All the 38 local authorities in phase I were appraised in order to identify
problems facing each of them;
-  A work plan and budget for the reform were prepared covering the programme
period 1999 - 2002. This covered capacity building to address weaknesses in
financial management;
*  A  training programme and training materials were developed to address
weaknesses identified by the appraisal mission and this was accomplished before
July, 1999 as envisaged; and
*  A Reform team was formed at the local authorities to monitor the reform process
at that level.
12.  Other benchmarks on social sector were also adopted as follows:-
(i)    The Government adopted an action plan for training, upgrading,
recruitment,   deployment   and    redeployment   of   teachers.
Training/upgrading of head teachers as well as school committee and District
Education Board members were conducted and are ongoing to cover the
whole country.  The Teachers' head count was done in 1999.  The
deployment and redeployment of teachers started immediately after the
completion of the head count exercise.
(ii)    A decision was made to shift responsibility for recruitment of DEO and
teaching staff and DMO and health staff to District Councils. Circular
letters from the Prime Minister's Office informing the 38 (phase 1) local
authorities of the decision were issued in January, 1999. In addition to these
letters, the Civil Service Department concurrently issued circular letters to the
Regional Administrative Secretaries (RAS) to effect the same arrangement.
(iii)  In fulfilling the condition related to the preparation of an action plan for
transferring responsibility for school management to legally constituted
school committee, May, 1999 - June 1999 was set to be the appropriate time
for the establishment of the said committees.
(iv)   A programme to finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to
hospitals within the framework of a hospital based revolving fund, which



32
involves cost sharing and subsidies, witb patients covering at least 50
percent of the costs was implemented accordingly. It is worth noting that
all the selected regions received the relevant training for implementation of
the drug revolving fund. Operational guidelines and accounting procedures
were prepared and disseminated.
(v)    An action plan to reduce the life lost due to malaria was prepared and is
being implemented smoothly since 1998.
(vi)   The government in collaboration with the World Bank Mission prepared an
action plan for the reform of higher education and technical training. In
line with various reforms at macro level which have been carried out to date,
the higher and technical education sub-sectors have carried-out reforms with
respect to Public Services Reform Programme.
(vii)   On February 12, 1999 Parliament passed the bill amending the Local
Government Act of 1982 and related legislation to provide for a developed
system of local government reflecting the changes in central-local
government relations.
Impact of Social Sector Reforms
13.   Implementation of SAC I and in particular the social sector tranche facilitated
achievement of the following:-
* Transfer of teachers and medical personnel from the Central Government
to Local Authorities became possible.
*  Local authorities are now more empowered and most decisions are made
at that level.
*  There has been some capacity improvement in financial management and
accountability.
Banking Sector Tranche
14.    Starting in 1991 the Government of Tanzania introduced a number of reforms in the
banking sector, including liberalization of interest rates; passage of Banking and
Financial Institutions Act which permitted the entry of private banks; introduction of
a treasury bill auction as part of BOT's efforts to control growth of the money supply
through the use of indirect monetary instruments; and creation of a mechanism for
expeditiously recovering overdue debts. In this regard, the following actions were
implemented under the Structural Adjustment Credit I:-
(i)    The government distributed the Investment Memorandum (IM) for the
two subsidiaries of NBC holding company. Twenty three investors showed
interest in the acquisition of Government shares in NBC (1997) Limited by
obtaining copies of the Investment Memorandum as soon as they were made
available.
(ii)   The government issued a call for bids for sale of up to 70% of Government
shares in NBC (1997) LTD. The call was published in both international and
local papers from I August, 1998 to 30 November, 1998.



33
(iii)   To the effect that the bids submitted on November 30, 1998 did not adhere to
bidding conditions, four bidders were invited to resubmit bids by January 29,
1999. Other potential bidders were also invited to submit their bids. On
January 29, 1999 bids were received from the following institutions:
* ABSA Group (South Africa);
* Barclays Bank PLC (UK);
* First Adili Bancorp/Tanzania Consortium (Tanzania) and
* Stanbic (T) Limited (Tanzania).
(iv)   The government, carried out an evaluation using its Divestiture Technical
Support Committee (DTSC) composed of members from the President's
Office, Ministry of Finance, Parastatal Sector Reform Commission, Attorney
General's Chambers and the Planning Commission.  Evaluation was
undertaken in accordance with the agreed criteria provided for in the
Investment Memorandum.
(v)    Finally, ABSA won the deal and was, therefore, invited for negotiations. The
MOU was signed on July 22, 1999.
(vi)   On the other hand, privatization of National Micro-finance Bank (NMB)
LTD is in its advanced stage. Engagement of a Management Contractor to
help turn around the Bank before embarking fully on its privatization is in
place. Other relevant measures are being undertaken to facilitate the creation
of a good track record for the Bank. The World Bank agreed to provide a
credit of approximately US$ 2.0 million to facilitate the process of
privatization of NMB.
Impact of Banking Reforms
* Banking Sector is now more competitive and efficient.
* Discipline in credit management has increased.
* Government interference with banking system no longer exists.
* Some of the NBC non-performing assets have been collected and some
have changed status to performing assets.
Petroleum Sector Tranche
15.   Tanzania was annually importing about 530,000 metric tons (MT) of crude petroleum
and 435,000 metric tons of white petroleum products. Imported crude oil was being
refined at the Tanzanian Italian Petroleum Refinery Company (TIPER), owned jointly
by the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), a government
parastatal, and AGIP (50/50 percent). TIPER's production meets about 50 percent of
the market demand of petroleum products.
16.   The Government was fixing the retail prices of petroleum products. There was no
price competition and, because of infrequent adjustment of the pricing formula, the
prices did not fully reflect changes in international prices or exchange rate
movements. The private oil marketing companies were not permitted to import
directly to meet their market requirements. These arrangements have allowed the
operation of TIPER to continue, which, because of its small size, old age, simple
technical structure and operational inefficiencies, was not competitive with imports.
The subsidization of the refinery amounts to about US$ 15-25 million annually (more
in some years, depending on the number of days the refinery was not operating and



34
on international petroleum  prices and margins).  To improve the situation the
following was done:-
(i)    During the mid-term review, it was found that the condition relating to the
issuing of Ministerial orders so as to permit the full liberalization of
petroleum product imports could not proceed as originally envisaged due
to inadequate capacity for off-loading white products. During that time the
government had only implemented partial liberalization as it was found
feasible to exercise the option of full liberalizing petroleum imports after the
expansion and modernization of KOJ facility has been completed. With the
completion of upgrading of the harbour facilities in December 1999,
Tanzania now can meet all of its needs for refined petroleum products
through imports.  Accordingly, the government informed the Tanzania
Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) and the private oil marketing
companies and the general public that all imports of petroleum products are
fully liberalized.
(ii)    Regarding the condition relating to issuing of Ministerial orders so as to
permit the full liberalization of petroleum prices the government decided
to liberalize pump prices of petroleum products on June 2, 1999 and
implementation of the decision became effective July 1, 1999.
(iii)   The government also decided that as of January 1, 2000, all revenue from
taxes and other levies on petroleum products, except for the charges for the
TPDC overhead cost and the TPDC margin, would accrue to the budget and
that the latter would accrue to the budget from July 1, 2000. Since that date,
TPDC has not received any payments from the budget, except for tasks it
performs on behalf of the government, such as acquisition and management
of data and information on Tanzania's petroleum potential.
17.   The mid-term review of the ESAF came with a three-option strategy with regard b
TIPER, namely: TIPER would either be privatized as a refinery without government
subsidies or privatized as a storage depot; or if neither of the options is feasible, be
closed. The government negotiated with a private investor M/S ADDAX who
showed keen interest to turn TIPER into a modern and competitive refinery.
18.   As regards the condition that the government has to remove the tax differentials
between various petroleum products, Tanzania had adopted in June, 1999 far-
reaching reform of tax system, including change in petroleum tax regime, import
duties and exemptions, and simplification and rationalization of the remaining taxes.
Since July 1999, there is no cross-subsidy on various petroleum products. Moreover,
the windfall tax had been fixed by the Parliament approval in April 1999 and as
amended by the GN No. 236/1999 published on August 6, 1999.
Impact of Petroleum Reforms
19.    Fuel prices are now more competitive and reflective of world market prices.
Parastatal Sector Tranche
(i)    Under this tranche, the Government was required to take all steps within its
control to bring 7 large production parastatals to the point of sale. Most of
the assets of the 7 large production PEs have been divested and only a few
assets are yet to find buyers even after repeated calls for bids. For the assets



35
that have found buyers production has either resumed after stalling, or
expanded.
(ii)   As regards the National Shipping Agencies Company Limited and
shipping agency services, the government had terminated NASACO's
monopolistic practices by allowing other firms (local and international) to
operate alongside NASACO. This did not require legal amendments as
earlier envisaged since there was no law in the first place specifically
granting NASACO the said monopoly. This was the basis for Government to
issue licenses to 25 other operators.
(iii)   Regarding the condition related to the Container Terminal at the Dar es
Salaam Port, the government received bids in October 1999 and evaluated
them. The preferred bidder, M/S International Container Terminal Services
Inc. (ICTSI) of Philippines was approved by the government on April 12,
2000. Following that approval, a 10-year lease agreement was signed on 5h
May, 2000.
(iv)   The condition attached to amendment of TCFB (Establishment) Act (Act
No.3 of 1981) to revoke the authority of the TCFB or any other agency to
exclusively negotiate rates, was fulfilled as evidenced by the regulations
signed on March 23, 2000 by the Minister of Communications and Transport.
These regulations put into effect an amendment to the TCFB 1981 Act,
passed by Parliament in February, 2000 and assented to by the President of
United Republic of Tanzania. The regulations also clarify the exclusion of the
said monopoly/exclusivity of TCFB to negotiate rates. According to these
amendments the overall functions of the TCFB will be to promote, facilitate
and regulate shipping services. Changes have been introduced to put in place
a completely new environment conducive to the growth of the sector.
(v)    The government was required to take all steps within its control to bring
the Marine Services Division of TRC  to the point of sale.  The
privatisation of the newly set-up TRC Marine suffered from technical mis-
judgement about the time required to hive it off from TRC, corporatize and
then privatize it (within a period of 2 years in all). Due to this misjudgement,
the government requested IDA to consider and approve a waiver on this
condition as the same would not be fulfilled within the envisaged time frame.
The World Bank granted the waiver and this was the sole waiver for SAC I
implementation.
(vi)   The condition related to TTCL was agreed under the old privatization
process where negotiations and due diligence would occur after evaluating
technical and price bids in quick succession (the two-envelope system) and
then invite any successful bidder to good faith negotiations. Under the new
privatization process, negotiations and due diligence are front-loaded, i.e.
prior to inviting price bids. The Government issued an IM for pre-
qualification and subsequently received and evaluated six proposals. Based
on the evaluation, the Government selected four qualified candidates and
invited them to undertake due diligence. However, two out of the four
candidates chose not to participate in the due diligence. The other two were
unable to complete their due diligence within the stipulated period. It was
therefore decided, with the concurrence of the Bank, to extend and partially
reopen the same process in the interest of better results and faster outcomes.
Under normal circumstances the process would have been completed by
April 2000 as previously envisaged. At that point the Government had done



36
''everything in its control" and acted in good faith to implement the stipulated
conditions under SAC 1. Moreover, the Government consulted with the Bank
at all critical stages of the process and acted in concurrence with the Bank in
extending the process.
(vii)  The process of divestiture of TTCL through to the point of sale under the
Manual for Privatization Procedures Guidelines, November 1999 (the
Guidelines) was completed soon after the closure of SAC 1 (June, 2000).
Impact of Privatization Reforms
* The privatized PEs have improved competitiveness in terms of increased
efficiency and productivity comparable to international standards.
* Contribution to the Government revenue in the form of dividends and taxes has
increased substantially.
* The private sector is increasingly becoming an engine of growth in Tanzania.
* Prospects for sustainability of investments by strategic investors have improved.
* Performance of the Tanzania Investment Centre as one stop centre has improved
significantly.
- Some privatized PEs have expanded their operation with an increased level of
employment.
Lessons Learned
* It is important to have the design stage properly done through a broad-based
consultative process to avoid misjudgment.
* The Government budget was not very predictable due to uncertainties associated
with the timely completion of the set of conditions for some of the floating
tranches.
* In some cases the timetable for the implementation of the conditions was over-
ambitious and unrealistic.
* The continuous dialogue (formal and informal) between the Government and the
World Bank was very instrumental in making the SAC a success and this should
be encouraged.
* The Bank's flexibility should be sustained to enhance Government ownership and
partnership.
* The existing TRUST between the Government and Bank should be enhanced.



37
Conclusion:
20.    The credit was very useful as it supported the government's efforts to maintain macro
economic stability, enhance efficient use of public resources, encouraged private
sector participation and support the development of human and physical
infrastructure needed for growth and poverty reduction.
21.    Generally, Tanzania's macroeconomic situation has continued to strengthen. Despite
unfavourable weather conditions, GDP growth in 1999 was 4.7 percent in real terms.
Inflation has continued its downward trend from a double digit when the SAC was
negotiated, and has remained below 6 percent since May 2000. Foreign exchange
reserves have improved steadily and cover over four months of imports of goods and
non- factor services. The exchange rate has remained fairly stable and competitive at
around TSh 880 per US dollar. In addition to the macro economic stabilization
achievements, structural and many other reforms were also carried out to improve the
functioning of the economy, and are going on smoothly. The structural reforms have
also focused on realigning the public service structure towards efficient use of scarce
resources and allocating resources to priority sectors, namely infrastructure and social
sectors, providing a special attention to priorities in social sectors and infrastructure
with a major target on poverty reduction.






f  as'   UGANDA.           32.'1                                         36'                   35'                 1-
|X1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 =38''                                 A
Lake  Victoria    <
Musomo &~
lli 1a   /-1       uSHINYANGAhnyanga                   L\ake           Mnyaral   KLlNJR    
KA                                    R               <         /SI:OA KENYv / 4ARUSHA
DEM R P\ j                                       \XI G D   3}J 
RWAN<DAi-tJ                             f   >        .-i  scocMrtveor ;2     )      NDND N
The boundaries, coloru710r;           <      Mbeya X  +     _       _       xtkA,
dno rinahlfisons ond any             -   >     <  ~    '-  \               *>   ,/'M Oron
other infpormation shof Yu '.                                                     A
The World fJank Group,                       >             .,;                              
ony judgament on the leaal                                             ak       Jak
stutus or any tendrsr.7ent,                                           \  _       Mn                       LINDIRO
lrr bouandofaTraieasT
DEM.MANRAD                            +  RGO T  AIA L              .-     \(  B                                                 <
RIVERS      - REION BOUNDA IESNGWogeIDAt                                            v   TAR 
- INTERNATIONAL BOUN~~~~~~~DARE RVMA                                                    D\w esj 
MBEYA KlLOMETER:i  --  --   '    /'--         -      eO BIQUE



