Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2967 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 12, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2967 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated May 2, 1997 and amended 
by letter dated August 28, 1997 (hereinafter called the Letter of Development Policy) 
from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the 
Credit in five tranches as hereinafter provided; 
(C)
the Borrower intends to obtain from the Kingdom of Norway (Norway), a 
grant (the Norwegian Grant) in an amount of twenty-five million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 
25,000,000) to assist in financing the Program on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the Norwegian Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Norway; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit 
Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
(b)
the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Borrower and the 
Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made 
in the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development 
Credit Agreement.”;
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions; 
(e)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: “(c) Not later than six months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of 
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(g)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“IDA Reflow” means an amount equivalent to two million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000) made available by the Association for 
the benefit of the Borrower under the Association’s Fiscal Year 1997 Allocations of 
IDA Reflows, as set forth in Resolution IDA/R96-178 dated November 5, 1996;
(b)
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of thirty-eight million nine hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 38,950,000) (including therein an amount of two million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,800,000) being the amount of the IDA Reflow) to 
be released by the Association on or after the Effective Date;
(c)
“Social Sector Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding the 
equivalent of eighteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
18,100,000) to be released by the Association after the Borrower has carried out the 
actions specified in Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and otherwise complied 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Parastatal Reform Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of ten million eight hundred and fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights 
Page  3
(SDR 10,850,000) to be released by the Association after the Borrower has carried out 
the actions specified in Part B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and otherwise complied 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Banking Sector Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of eighteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
18,100,000) to be released by the Association after the Borrower has carried out the 
actions specified in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and otherwise complied 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(f)
“Petroleum Sector Tranche” means the portion of the Credit not exceeding 
the equivalent of seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
7,200,000)  to be released by the Association after the Borrower has carried out the 
actions specified in Part D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and otherwise complied 
with the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Subsequent Tranches” means, collectively, the Social Sector Tranche, the 
Parastatal Reform Tranche, the Banking Sector Tranche, and the Petroleum Sector 
Tranche, and “Subsequent Tranche” means any of the Subsequent Tranches;
(h)
“District” means each of the Borrower’s local government units 
established under Section 5 (1) of its Local Government (District Authority) Act 
Number 7 of 1982;
(i)
“BOT” means Bank of Tanzania, the Borrower’s Central Bank;
(j)
“NBC” means the National Bank of Commerce;
(k)
“TRC” means Tanzania Railways Corporation;
(l)
“TPDC” means the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation;
(m)
“Tanzania Shilling” and “Tsh.” mean the currency of the Borrower;
(n)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; and
(o)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower which commences on 
July 1 in each calendar year and ends on June 30 of the subsequent calendar year. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety-three million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 93,200,000) which includes an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,800,000) representing an IDA Reflow allocation made by the Association. 
Section 2.02.  (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Page  4
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate 
of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the 
amount of the First Tranche unless, with respect to each Subsequent Tranche, the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 
3.01 of this Agreement and based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(ii)
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is consistent 
with the 
objectives of the Program; and 
(iii)
that the Borrower has carried out the actions specified in the 
respective 
paragraph of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for that 
Subsequent Tranche. 
(e)
If, after any of the said exchange of views, the Association shall have 
given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions, satisfactory to the Association, then the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit or any part thereof.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each  January 15 and July 15 commencing  July 15, 2007 and ending January 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2017 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
Page  5
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. BOT is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program and the actions specified in Schedule  2 to this Agreement. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors, acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  6
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement  within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
in its proposed budget for Fiscal Year 1998, the Borrower’s cabinet has, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 16 of the Letter of Development Policy, 
made the budgetary allocation for its health, education, water, power and transport 
sectors set forth in such paragraph; 
(b)
in its proposed budget for Fiscal Year 1998, the Borrower’s cabinet has, 
in accordance with the social sector reform plan set forth in paragraphs 20 and 21 of 
the Letter of Development Policy, made the budgetary allocation for recurrent 
expenditures for primary education set forth in such paragraph; 
(c)
the Borrower has prepared a telecommunications sector competition policy 
in accordance with the parastatal reform plan set forth in paragraph 23 of the Letter 
of Development Policy; 
(d)
in accordance with the banking sector reform plan set forth in paragraphs 
24 and 25 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has dissolved NBC, created 
three new banks and a holding company and transferred the assets and liabilities of 
NBC to the three new banks or to the holding company, as appropriate; and
(e)
the Borrower has entered into a contract or contracts with a consultant 
or consultants acceptable to the Borrower and the Association on terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association for the preparation of proposals for 
concession arrangements for the container terminal at Dar es Salaam. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of the Borrower at the time responsible for Finance is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam,
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address: 
Telex:
TREASURY
 41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
Page  7
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Mustafa Nyang'anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.
Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower. 
2.
Expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit.
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
Page  8
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
Expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption. 
5.
Expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association). 
6.
Expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 
7.
Expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the Association to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Part A: 
Social Sector Reform Plan
1.
In accordance with the public expenditure management plan referred to in 
paragraphs 17 to 19 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has reduced the 
number of projects in its public sector development portfolio to 800 or less, using 
the guidelines and criteria set forth in paragraph 18 of the Letter of Development 
Policy.
2.
In accordance with the education and training policy referred to in paragraphs 
20 and 21 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has: 
(a)
adopted an action plan (with specific budgetary proposals), agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Association, for the recruitment, training, upgrading, 
deployment and redeployment of primary school teachers; 
(b)
issued a ministerial circular (i) providing for District education 
officers and teachers to be recruited and hired (subject, in the case of District 
education officers, to approval by the ministry of the Borrower responsible for 
Page  9
education) by the District councils in at least 20 pilot districts; and (ii) 
transferring all subsidies for primary education in such pilot districts to the 
District councils as block grants to cover salaries and other expenses based on a 
formula agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; 
(c)
prepared an action plan, agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, for transferring the management of primary schools to local school 
committees; and
(d)
prepared an action plan, agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association, for the reform of technical and higher education and technical training.
3.
In accordance with the health sector reform plan referred to in paragraph 22 of 
the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has: 
(a)
implemented  the plan described in paragraph 22 of the Letter of 
Development Policy to finance the full cost of pharmaceuticals delivered to hospitals 
within the framework of a hospital-based revolving fund involving cost sharing and 
subsidies with cost sharing by patients covering at least 50% of the costs; 
(b)
issued a ministerial circular (i) providing for the District medical 
officers and all other district level health staff to be recruited and hired (subject, 
in the case of District medical officers, to approval by the ministry of the Borrower 
responsible for health) by the District councils in at least 20 pilot districts; and 
(ii) transferring all subsidies for primary health care to the District councils as 
block grants to cover salaries and other expenses; and 
(c)
prepared an action plan agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association to reduce the number of life years lost to malaria.
Part B: 
Parastatal Sector Reform Plan
1.
In accordance with the parastatal sector reform plan referred to in paragraph 23 
of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has:
2.
taken all steps within its control to bring the following enterprises to the 
point of sale: (i) Mbeya Cement; (ii) the Sugar Development Corporation Limited; (iii) 
the Southern Paper Mills; (iv) Morogoro Polyester; (v) National Milling Corporation; 
(vi) Tanzania Tea Authority; and (vii) the Tanzania Sisal Authority; entered into a 
contract, acceptable to the Association, with a private enterprise for the management, 
under the terms set forth in paragraph 23 of the Letter of Development Policy, of the 
container terminal at Dar es Salaam Port; abolished the monopoly position of the 
National Shipping Agencies Company Limited in shipping agency services and permitted 
free international competition under the standards agreed with the Association; 
3.
amended the Tanzania Central Freight Bureau (Establishment) Act (Act Number 3 of 
1981) so as to revoke the authority of the Tanzania Central Freight Bureau or any 
other agency to exclusively negotiate freight rates; 
4.
taken all steps within its control to bring the marine services division of TRC 
to the point of sale; and
5.
taken all steps within its control to bring the Tanzania Telecommunications 
Company Limited to the point of sale.
6.
For the purposes of this paragraph, “taking all steps within its control to 
bring to the point of sale” requires the Borrower to have (a) carried out a valuation 
of the enterprise or division as the case may be, (b) prepared an information 
memorandum for the enterprise or division in question as the case may be, 
(c) solicited offers directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate newspapers, 
(d) evaluated any offers and selected successful bidder(s), and (e) invited the 
successful bidder(s) to enter into good faith negotiations.
Part C: 
Banking Sector Reform Plan
1.
In accordance with the banking sector reform plan set forth in paragraphs 24 and 
25 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has brought to the point of sale 
Page  10
the three banks  to be created out of NBC as set forth is Section 5.01 (d) of this 
Agreement.
2.
For the purposes of this paragraph, “brought to the point of sale” requires the 
Borrower to have (i) prepared and distributed investment memoranda for each of the 
three banks, (ii) solicited offers directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate 
newspapers, from commercial banks meeting criteria agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Association  under terms and conditions agreed upon between the Borrower and 
the Association and (iii) evaluated any offers and selected successful bidder(s), if 
any, and (iv) invited the successful bidder(s), if any,  to enter into good faith 
negotiations.
Part D: 
Petroleum Sector Reform Plan
In accordance with the petroleum sector reform plan set forth in paragraph 26 of 
the Letter of Development Policy, the Borrower has: abolished all price and import 
controls for petroleum products as set forth in paragraph 26 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; and in the Finance Act 1998, removed the tax differentials between 
various petroleum products.
