               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                                                                                             86872
                        International Development Association
                          International Finance Corportation
                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                   CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                    EDS97-238
                                                                                                  June 19, 1997


 Board Meeting of June 19,1997
 Statement by Andrei Bugrov

                             Tanzania- Country Assistance Strategy
                                             and
                                 Structural Adjustment Credit

         Since early 1996 we have been witnessing Tanzania's continuing satisfactory
 performance on macroeconomic stabilization. After successful implementation of an IMF staff-
 monitored fiscal program the Government has met -- in several respects, with comfortable
 margins -- the midterm targets of the first annual arrangement of the ESAF program agreed with
 the IMF last November. Also, significant advancements have been made with liberalization
 policies and structural reforms. These include steady progress in the divestiture of parastatals
 and in dismantling state monopolies. We are also impressed by the Tanzanian authorities'
 determination to curb corruption and improve governance.

          All in all, we are convinced that a strong reform momentum in Tanzania has been
  regained and the Government is fully determined to sustain its fiscal stabilization efforts and to
  implement its well-targeted structural adjustment program. In this situation the Bank's decision
  to extend the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit to Tanzania would be, in our opinion,
  absolutely appropriate.

           The Credit would provide essential support to the Government committed to
  strengthening and accelerating reforms in selected priority areas: (a) public expenditure
  management; (b) social sector rationalization; (c) parastatals divestiture; (d) banking sector
  reforms; (e) petroleum sector liberalization. These five priorities are also elaborated on in the
  new Country Assistance Strategy and fully consistent with it. The overall design of the
  Structural Adjustment Credit seems to be very good. We would like to note in particular the
  appropriateness of the idea of floating tranches which provide for necessary implementation
  flexibility.

         At the last Board meeting on the Country Assistance Strategy for Tanzania this Chair
  expressed disappointment with the submitted Progress Report, especially with the way in which
  many important issues ofthe country's reform and development agenda and the Bank's

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                2


assistance were presented and discussed in the paper. Now we are pleased to note that the new
CAS document is of good quality and would like to commend the staff for its preparation.

        We appreciate the thoughtful and rather comprehensive analysis of the country's
background and recent performance. It would have been even more comprehensive if it
incorporated the very acute deliberations, which one finds in the Structural Adjustment Credit
paper (para. 7), on why Tanzania's growth rate does not adequately mirror its relatively high
level of investment.

        We share the Staffs concern with regard to the stagnation of social and poverty
indicators. At the same time our impression is that the Bank needs to increase substantially its
knowledge about social sector and poverty in Tanzania.

        One of the remaining concerns is the status of the Bank's portfolio. While the aggregate
disbursement ratio has improved very significantly in the recent months, the share of problem
and potentially problem projects increases. The CAS recognizes the seriousness of the portfolio
quality issue. We very much hope that the improvement efforts the description of which took up
more than a page in the report will yield the desired results in the nearest future.

       We agree with the composition and triggers of the proposed IDA lending program. As
regards the planned non-lending assistance, a Private Sector Assessment study seems to be a
missing element of the ESW. We encourage further expansion ofiFC (including Africa Project
Development Facility and Africa Enterprise Fund) and MIGA activities in Tanzania. The
importance of the EDI' s continuing support for capacity building should also be stressed.

       In conclusion, we would like to express our general endorsement of the proposed Country
Assistance Strategy for Tanzania.
