              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                       International Development Association
                                                                    86601
                         International Finance Corportation
                     Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                 CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                 EDS97-233
                                                                                               June 18, 1997


   Board Meeting of June 19,1997
   Statement by Joaquim R. Carvalho


                             Tanzania Country Assistance Strategy and
                               Structural Adjustment Credit Project


   1.     We thank Management and staff for this well-prepared and succinct Country Assistance
   Strategy for Tanzania. Tanzania's relationship with the Bank Group is long-standing and
   extensive and we are particularly pleased to see in this CAS that the linkage with the previous
   CAS and with the CAS progress report of May 1996 has been well preserved. The sense of
   continuity in Bank Group operations in the country comes through clearly in the document.

   2.      Tanzania has embarked upon a number of reforms in the last five years. Reforms have
   been cumulative and based on a medium- and long-term vision of the country's growth and
   development strategy. GDP growth reached 5% in 1995, revenue as a share ofGDP rose from
   14.5% to 15%; government expenditure is projected to decline from 21.4% ofGDP in 1995 to
   18.1% in FY97, while the deficit before grants is projected to reduce to 2.3% of GOP in FY97.
   Inflation has declined from 28% in FY95 to 14% in the first quarter of 1997. My Tanzanian
   authorities are determined to maintain the momentum of macroeconomic reforms to ensure
   sustained economic growth.

   3.      Implementation ofthe 1996 ESAF agreement with the IMF has been satisfactory
   according to the ESAF mid-term review in March/April 1997, particularly with respect to
   controlling recurrent expenditures and parastatal reforms. The Tanzania Revenue Authority
   (TRA), which has been established with support from the IDF has been instmmental in
   enhancing public finance management.

   Having noted this, we would like to make a few additional remarks on the content of the CAS
   itself.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                 2


4.       A clear message emerging from the CAS is the imperative to build administrative
capacity. During the previous CAS the Bank has extended support for capacity building in the
Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) and in strengthening banking supervision in the Bank of
Tanzania, for which we are thankful. EDI has also played an important role in this respect. Yet
there are many other additional and pressing areas of need for capacity building and we would
like to see in this CAS a more far-reaching programme of capacity building. While we are
pleased to note that three of the ten projects in the lending programme for FY98-00 focus on
capacity building, we would have liked to see the capacity building aspect incorporated more
substantially in other projects.

5.      Table 3 underscores the centrality of agriculture in the country's future growth strategy.
As Tanzania's GDP growth rate begins to increase, it will become increasingly important to
diversify the country's sources of economic growth and to expand the share of manufacturing
(currently only 7.6%) in total GDP

6.       With regard to Tanzania's external indebtedness, the data presented in paragraphs 24-28
clearly reveal that Tanzania is a prime candidate for debt relief in terms of the HIPC debt
initiative. The country has a present value of external debt equivalent to 636% of exports and a
debt service ratio of 32%. These are very substantial payment obligations and are clearly
inhibiting prospects for Tanzania achieving future higher levels of economic growth. As the CAS
document clearly reflects, the donor community, NGO's, Members ofParlian1ent, the Central
Bank and a wide spectrum ofline Ministries in Tanzania are all of the opinion that the country's
debt service obligations are a serious constraint on future growth and development prospects. As
Tanzania is continuing on the path it has set itself and has pursued for the last five years and as
these reforms are widening and deepening, it is my authorities strong belief that Tanzania
qualifies for an early debt relief under the HIPC initiative.

7.      We welcome the proposed East African Regional Study mentioned on page 18. We urge
staffto pursue initiatives of this nature, which can highlight the significant and growing
opportunities for multi-country and regional trade and investment. Tanzania also chairs the
SADC portfolio on Trade and we would have liked to have seen some detailed comments on how
progress with the proposed SADC Free Trade protocol will impact Tanzania's macroeconomic
profile during the forthcoming CAS period. The Government believes that movement towards a
free-trade approach within SADC will have enormous long-run benefits for all member
countries, including Tanzania. It also realises that there will be short-term adjustment costs, to
the macroeconomic, fiscal and industrial structures. Consideration by the Bank of the extent and
likelihood of these short-term adjustment costs, particularly in view of the fact that these costs
will influence the low-, base- and high-case scenarios, will be useful in helping Tanzania deal
with these costs.
                                                 3


8.      We appreciate IFC's role in Tanzania, depicted in Annex 2.1. There are a wide spectrum
of projects for IFC's involvement. While we commend IFC for the initiatives to date, we
encourage the Corporation to further deepen the initiatives. IFC's participation could be very
substantially improved, particularly as the investment multipliers from the Songo Songo project
come on stream. In this regard, we consider the US$40 million in new IFC projects proposed for
FY98-00 to be lower than the level we would have expected.

9.      Similarly, we urge MIGA to speed up the encouraging pipeline of I 4 guarantee projects
noted in paragraph 54 and to bring these to an early and successful conclusion, while building a
healthy pipeline of future guarantee initiatives. In addition, in view of the trenchant implications
for the macroeconomy of the Songo Songo gas initiative, it would have been particularly useful
if more detail could have been provided on progress with this project in the CAS document.

10.     The CAS matrices in Annex 1.1 present a detailed outline of CAS benchmarks for the
forthcoming period to FYOO. The spread of activity is encouraging and sets out a full and
growing programme of engagement with the country. We need to achieve a balance, which on
the one hand provides a far-reaching set of policy challenges to the Tanzanian authorities, while
retaining the incentive for the Tanzanian authorities to persist in the reform efforts which have
gathered steam in the last five years; and on the other hand ensuring that we do not set objectives
which could be so insurmountable that they drain this enthusiasm at the outset. On balance, the
CAS framework achieves this balance. However, we wonder whether the benchmark for
achieving profitability ofNBC in the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit Project is feasible
and would be interested in hearing staffs' comments.

11.     In conclusion, we thank staff for a detailed and well prepared document. Tanzania is
beginning to see the first fruits of a long period of economic, institutional, fiscal and financial
reform. We trust that management and staff will pursue the challenging CAS agenda with vigour,
particularly the capacity building elements of the CAS.
