             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                     86874
                      International Development Association
                        International Finance Corportation
                    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                EDS97-243
                                                                                              June 19,1997


 Board Meeting of June 19,1997
 Statement by Gus O'Donnell


                        TANZANIA: COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
                          AND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT


         Country Assistance Strategy

         Introduction

                I would like to welcome thts CAS and, in particular, the Bank's review of its past
 weaknesses and its determination to increase the participation of non-bank staff in the design of
 its programme.

                 However, I note the range of problems to be tackled and wonder whether
 Tanzania has the capacity to deliver. We are fully behind the strategy and commend the
 authorities for their strong commitment to reform, but things move slowly in Tanzania, and past
 experience has highlighted the danger of overloading the development agenda. The poor
 portfolio performance is a symptom of this.

                On specific details of the CAS, the proposed lending programme and triggers for
 moving between lending scenarios seems appropriate, but the Bank will need to consider the
 implications of increased participation on design and implementation times for projects. It
 would be preferable to have a smaller well-designed programme rather than a larger one which
 does not have sufficient ownership by the Tanzanians.

                  Also, details of proposed lending programme and how it fits in with the
  government's own programmes are rather thin. I must question the extent to which the Bank is
  prepared to allow the Govement of Tanzania to take the lead. For example, I am disappointed to
  see that the proposed Bank lending programme in the education sector makes no reference to the
  planned Sector Development Programme, which has the broad agreement of other donors.


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not othetwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.
                                                 2


               The CAS's analysis of poverty shows that the World Bank still has some way to
go before fully appreciating the benefits of a participatory approach. Given its desire to increase
its understanding of poverty issues (para. 52 and others) does the Bank plan to make greater use
of Participatory Rapid Appraisal (PRA) and other techniques which would increase the input of
poor communities in the Bank's work?

               I welcome the clear emphasis on strengthening public sector institutions and
working more closely with NGOs and other local institutions in Tanzania. For this to be
successful, however, Bank staff need a better understanding of the cultures which operate in
these organizations and the communities they deal with. Does the Bank plan to increase the
number of staff resident in Tanzania?

Structural Adjustment Credit

                 I have only a few positive comments on the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC),
particularly its sector focus on health and education. The long gestation period of the SAC until
macroeconomic conditions were favourable and government commitment had reached the level
required is also welcome.

               I was impressed with the use of criteria for effectiveness which draw on existing
policy statements. This increases the likelihood of adherence and demonstrates close
involvement of the government in the design of the SAC. Finally, I welcome the absence of
excessive cross-conditionality, which rewards the Government of Tanzania for progress in one
or more sectors even if the pace of reform is slower in others.
