                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                    86869
,,                          International Development Association
                              International Finance Corportation
                          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                     CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS97-234
                                                                                                   June 18, 1997


       Board Meeting of June 19,1997
       Statement by Jean-Daniel Gerber

               TANZANIA: Country Assistance Strategy and Structural Adjustment Credit

       1.- We fully support the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy and Structural Adjustment
       Credit.

       2.- After two years of severe setbacks in the economic recovery program of Tanzania the newly
       elected Government at the end of 1996 succeeded in reversing the downward trend and
       demonstrating a clear, concrete and unambiguous commitment of action in a few key areas. We
       are pleased with this recent development and are convinced that, based on the positive economic
       results as shown in the ESAF mid-term review and the strong commitment of the Government to
       continue and accelerate key economic reforms, ·the Tanzania Government merits full support
       from the donor community and the International Financial Institutions. However, an impressive
       reform agenda still lies ahead, and the Tanzanian Government has to continue to demonstrate its
       willingness, commitment and capacity to achieve a strong track record in order to solidify the
       regained credibility within the donor community.

      3.- The Structural Adjustment Credit is well-targeted in order to correct remaining distortions
      and strengthen key institutions with the objectives of supporting greater efficiency in the use of
      fiscal resources, more narrowly focusing on the activities of the State and continuing the process
      of price and market liberalization. Together with the focus on continued privatization of
      parastatal enterprises and improvement in the delivery of social services through increased cost
      recovery and private sector involvement, the SAC addresses the key elements for
      macroeconomic stabilization and accelerated growth rates. Particularly as regards the
      reorganization and divestiture of NBC, the proposed SAC, confirmed by the Government of
      Tanzania, represents the necessary exit strategy after a long past of failed and delayed
      restructuring of the bank. A lot of resources (human and financial) have already been allocated to
      the scrutinizing, analyzing, auditing, advising as well as the recapitalizing of this bank. We
      therefore urge· the Bank to be as fum as possible in the event of a possible reopening of
      negotiations on NBC's reorganization and divestiture.

       4.- The CAS is well balanced and adequately supports the Government's objective of broad-
       based economic growth with the greatest impact on poverty. Moreover, the triggers for Lending
     This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
     performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
     World Bank authorization.
                                                   2


Program Scenarios (Box 2, p.17) are meaningful. We take note that within its lending and
nonlending activities, the Bank is keeping in mind the objective of reinvigorating institutions
such as the anti-corruption bureau or the judiciary. Following the Warioba report, we are also
confident that the Bank will encourage and closely follow up on the Government's taking
corrective measures in order to combat fraud and corruption.

5.- We would like to highlight some points from the CAS and the SAC where we would
appreciate more clarification from the World Bank:

•    Under the high case scenario, full and rapid implementation of the proposed reform strategy
    would lead to an estimated increase in Real Per Capita Growth Rates from 1.4% in 1996 to
    2.2% in 1999 and eventually to 3.3% in 2006. Considering the widespread poverty in
    Tanzania, these still moderate Per Capita Growth Rates seem to be the minimum that
    Tanzania should strive for. One of the concerns identified in the SAC is that the overall
    growth rate does not adequately mirror the level of aggregate investments. With the proposed
    SAC an environment for improved allocative and productive efficiency will be created. We
    are pleased that this SAC focuses on only a few, but very crucial areas, and particularly on
    the activities of the State. We wonder, however, whether 1) the private sector will sufficiently
    react to and take advantage of the improved environment and 2) what the eventual
    supplementary measures are that the Bank envisages in order to increase private initiative and
    investments. As an example, what would the Bank's policy be vis-a-vis the Microfinancing
    Bank once it is autonomous? We consider this point as a risk for the achievement of higher
    growth rates. In addition, we would have been interested in a sensitivity study analyzing the
    implications of different fiscal policy scenarios on their resulting growth rates.

•   Furthermore, ambitious fiscal targets are formulated for the next few years and the budget
    management should shift from the current cash budget to a Rolling Plan and Forward Budget
    (RPFB). As mentioned in the SAC, this implies a better forecasting of future expenditures
    and revenues as well as better coordination with fiscal and monetary authorities. In this
    context, we are rather surprised to read that the World Bank only mentions the lack of
    technical skills at the local level, and that at this stage the likelihood of a resulting slackening
    of reforms is small. Our understanding is that one of the main constraints and risks for an
    improved fiscal policy and budget management is the extremely limited capacity at the
    Ministry of Finance at the central level. The CAS mentions as an objective of its lending and
    nonlending activities the capacity building in critical areas for sound economic management
    and particularly for the Tanzania Revenue Authority and policy analysis in the Ministry of
    Finance. We wonder whether this is sufficient and whether some additional training and
    increased technical assistance would be required at the central level of the Ministry of
    Finance. The Bank could at least play an important role as a facilitator for increased support
    by the donor community.

•   Regarding the budget targets, we welcome the intention of implementing several expenditure
    rationalization measures as identified in the frame of the Public Expenditure Review (PER).
    The consolidation of the recurrent and development budget is especially crucial. This,
                                                3


    together with a better cashflow management regime, could be valuable in securing a
    commitment to sector expenditure plans consistent with realistic aggregate expenditure at the
    sector level. The downsizing of the project portfolio and classification into core, super-core
    and non-core projects has had little impact so far in the fmancing and implementation of the
    hundreds of projects. We therefore very much welcome the SAC condition for the social
    sector tranche release of reducing the number of projects from 1,400 down to 800 or less. In
    addition, the development spending targets from domestic sources of T Sh 20 billion
    (excluding the Road Fund) for priority sectors, together with increased cost sharing and
    private sector involvement, will hopefully reverse the dramatic deterioration in education and
    health services and facilities. While all these measures are encouraging, we still remain
    concerned that the Government continues to make commitments to provide counterpart funds
    and budgetary resources to cover essential recurrent expenses on a bilateral basis which -
    from the very beginning of the FY - it can never fulfill. We therefore urge the World Bank to
    monitor the contracting policy of the Government in particular and to initiate eventual
    corrective measures.

•   No mention is made in either document of the relationship of the Mainland with the Island of
    Zanzibar. There is certainly no scope for the World Bank to interfere in the political
    discussions; however, if Zanzibar is increasingly becoming a loophole for important reforms
    and potentially inhibiting or jeopardizing macroeconomic stability, th~n clear conditions
    should be formulated by the World Bank in order to avoid future slippage. As an example,
    we would like to mention the absence of a pre-shipment-inspection company on the island,
    an eventually delayed introduction of the VAT on Zanzibar and the recent arrears
    accumulated in the servicing of treasury bills by the Zanzibary Government.

•   Lastly, we take note of the Bank's intention to continue its efforts to refine the process of
    consultation and sharing information through the annual CG and the SPA. However, we also
    urge the Bank to ensure that monthly meetings of the local donor group in Dar es Salaam are
    being held in order to regularly inform donors about the current status of the reform process
    and policy decisions taken by the Government or the Bank.
