Report No. 424a-PH
Appraisal of                                                               FILE COPY
a Loan to the Republic of the Philippines
for Financing:
(A) Industrial Investment and
(B) Smaliholder Tree-farmers
Through the Development Bank of the Philippines
May 5, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published.
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =    P 6.7585
P 1            -    US$0.1480
P 1 million    2    US$147,960
P 1 billion    =    US$148.0 million
ABBREVIATIONS
BOI       -    Board of Investments
CCC       -    US Commodity Credit Corporation
CWB       -    Canadian Wheat Board
DAP       -    Development Academy of the Philippines
DBP       -    Development Bank of the Philippines
DEI       -    Department of Energy and Industry
GSIS      -    Government Service Insurance System
IPP       -    Investment Priorities Plan
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MASICAP   -    Medium and Small-Scale Industry Coordinated
Action Program
NEDA      -    National Economic Development Authority
NIDC      -    National Investment and Development Corporation
PDB       -    Private Development Banks
PDCP      -    Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PICOP     -    Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines
PNB       -    Philippine National Bank
RFC       -    Rehabilitation Finance Corporation
SEC       -    Securities and Exchange Commission
SSS       -    Social Security System
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
A LOAN FOR FINANCING INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........................v
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................ o so ......             1
II.    THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  ......                       1
The Economy  . .............  *. .  .................................  1
The Industrial Sector  ....... . . .  .......................... *. * *  3
Industrial Finance  .... S.................*... ...                    5
III.    DBP - ROLE IN THE ECONOMY  .....*...........***.***..   .                      8
Overall Operations  .....            ........................          8
Economic Contribution  . .... .... . . . . .  . .. . . .........  .    8
Promotion  .....         ....................*..                       9
IV.    DBP - THE INSTITUTION  .............                   ..............    10
Ownership, Organization and Management                   ...........    10
Staffing  ..............  ..... .............*.*  so    10
Operating Policies  ........ . . . . ................ .    11
Appraisal  ....................................................    11
Follow-Up  .....................................................    12
Procurement and Disbursement  .....................O    12
Financial Planning  ..........**             ..     .#6 ...**    12
Operations  ...........*.  o.          .........................    12
Financial Condition  ... .... . ..... . .   .....  ..... . . . .....  13
Audit ................ 0.........          0.............................    14
Resource Requirements and Prospects  ........*...*...    14
V.    OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE LOAN  ...................    15
The Industrial Loanx  ......   .......... # ....    . . . . . .    15
The Tree-Farming Project  .........................    16
Main Features of the Loan  .........                .... *......      17
VI.    RECO*WENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED  ................    18
This report was prepared by Messrs. T. N. Dinh, E. Elejalde, and P. Mistry
following their visit to the Philippines in January, 1974. Annex 10 (tree
farming project) was prepared by Messrs. D. Harcharik  (FAO consultant)  and
D. Steel.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   DBP - Approvals of Loans, Investments and Guarantees to
September 30, 1973
2.   DBP - Board of Governors as of December 31, 1973
3.   DBP - Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for
Industrial Financing
4.   Characteristics of DBP's Financing Activities
A.   Iidustrial Financing
B.   Non Industrial Financing
Appendix 1 - Comparative Statement of Industrial Loans
Approved to September 30, 1973
2 - Comparative Statement of Guarantee Operations
to December 31, 1973
3 - Geographical Distribution, Maturity Structure,
and Currency Exposure of DBP's Regular Foreign
Currency Guarantees Outstanding as of
December 31, 1973
4 - Interest Rates and Other Cbarges as of
December 31, 1973
5 - Summary of Equity Investments in Industrial
Companies as of June 30, 1973
5.   DBP - Financial Record and Position
A.  General
B.   Capital Structure
C.   Earnings Record
D.  Liquidity
E.   Foreign Exchange Risk
F.   Condition of Portfolio
G.   Financial Position
Appendix 1 - Balance Sheets, June 30, 1970-73 and
December 31, 1973
2 - Income Statement for Years Ended June 30,
1970-73 and Half-Year Ended December 31, 1973
3 - Analysis of Loans in Arrears as of June 30, 1973



-3-
4 - Sectoral Comparison of Outstanding Defauls on
Guarantees, Guarantees Approved, and Guarantees
Outstanding as of June 30, 1973
6.   DBP - Examination of Arrears of DBP's Medium and Large-Scale
Industrial Accounts
7.   DBP - Sources of Capital
Appendix 1 - Long-Term Resource Position as of December 31,
1973
2 - Long-Term Foreign Borrowings as of December
31, 1973
7.   DBP - Prospects
A.   General
B.   Business Forecast
C.   Resource Requirements
D.   Financial Projections
Appendix 1 - Projected Operations, FY74-76
2 - Projected Income Statements, FY74-76
3 - Projected Balance Sheets FY74-76
4 - Projected Cash Flow Statement, FY74-76
9.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
10.   Tree Farming Project
A.   Summary and Conclusions
B.   Background
C.   The Project
D.   Organization and Management
E.   Marketing
F.   Benefits and Economic Justification
Appendix 1 - Extract from Existing Agro-Forestry
Farm Marketing Agreement
2 - Yields by Site Index of Albizia Falcata
3 - Harvesting, Loading and Hauling Costs
4 - Tree Farm Cash Flows
5 - Economic Rate of Return



- 4 -
CHIART'(So. 8558
DBP - Organization Chart aw of. Decere 31, 1973
NAP (No. 11008)
Project. Area for Pilot. Tree Farunt.:



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
A LOAN FOR FINANCING INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        The Philippine Government has requested a Bank loan for financing
through the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP):
(a) direct capital import requirements for industrial
projects; and
(b) credit for 1,300 smallholder tree farmers in Mindanao.
This report recommends a loan of US$50 million, of which US48 million will
be used for financing industry.  The remaining U                           e
pilot tree-farming project. Expenditures for the latter, would be in local
currency.
ii.       The Philippine economy registered an impressive 10% real growth
rate in 1973, shared by every sector. Along with significant increases in
agricultural and industrial production export earnings rose to a record
US$1.7 billion in 1973, a 55% increase over the previous year. The perform-
ance of the economy and confidence in its management were reflected in a
substantial pickup in investment activity.
iii.      Industry represents the third largest sector of the Philippine
economy (after agriculture and services), accounting for 27% of net domestic
product in 1973, absorbing over one third of total investment and providing
employment for 15% of the total labor force. Further industrialization is
a basic tenet of Philippine development strategy, providing a vehicle for
meeting growing domestic demand, improving the balance of payments and
generating more employment for a rapidly growing work force. Industrial
growth in 1973 was recorded at 11%, a markedly higher rate than the 6%
average growth rate over the last 10 years. Industrial exports, in parti-
cular, grew at a rapid pace rising from a level of US$49 million in 1969
to US$200 million in 1973. They now account for 11.8% of total exports
compared to around 5.7% in 1969.
iv.       The Philippine strategy for industrialization has been under-
going a shift in emphasis from import substitution towards greater export
promotion and a widening of the entrepreneurial base. Specific measures
taken to achieve this include: (a) a fundamental reform of the investment
and export incentives system; (b) better regulation of investments in
accordance with pre-determined priorities through the Board of Investments
(BOI); (c) an exchange rate adjustment in 1970 resulting in a devaluation;
and (d) changes in tariff policy. These measures have gone some way in
correcting previous economic distortions and making Philippine exports



- ii -
more competitive. Industry's role in employment creation is also being
stressed with the introduction of labor intensity criteria in determining
eligibility for incentives.
v.        An increasing amount of industrial investment is regulated by the
BOI. Most of it is financed by DBP, a wholly Government-owned development
bank. DBP operates in all important sectors of the economy, with industrial
financing accounting for the bulk (79%) of its activities. DBP's approvals
of loans, guarantees, and equity investments to September 30, 1973, amounted
to P 14.3 billion (US$2.1 billion) for over 200,000 clients. In the last
four years its loan disbursements and foreign currency guarantees accounted
for 11% of total fixed capital formation in the country; its industrial fi-
nancing for 28% of total fixed capital formation in mining and manufactur-
ing. As a matter of policy, DBP has been financing mainly industrial proj-
ects registered with the BOI. This pattern is expected to continue under
the proposed Bank loan. By virtue of the volume of its financing and the
multiplicity of its functions, DBP has played and continues to play a promi-
nent role in the economic developmetit of the Philippines.
vi.       DBP's total assets including its guarantees amounted to P 7.8
billion (US$1.15 billion) as of December 31, 1973; paid-in share capital
and surplus amounted to P 1.9 billion. Despite recent improvements,
particularly in the capital structure, DBP's present financial condition
is affected by a large volume of arrears. These relate mainly to loans
and guarantees made before 1970 whert DBP's appraisals were relatively
weak. The devaluation of 1970 also exacerbated the debt-servicing problems
of DBP's clients and worsened the arrears record. The situation is expected
to improve gradually. Until an improvement in its financial condition has
resulted the Government is expected, as it has in the past, to assist DBP
whenever necessary.
vii.      Measures for accelerating the comprehensive examination of its
portfolio of industrial loans and guarantees in arrears have been dis-
cussed and agreed with DBP during negotiations. DBP's audit, under-
taken by Government auditors, is not sufficiently thorough to allow
precise judgements to be made about the soundness of DBP's portfolio.
During negotiations, steps to be taken to evaluate auditing procedures
and systems, identify weaknesses therein and to develop a program for
remedying these weaknesses have also been discussed and agreed with DBP.
viii.     Since 1970 DBP's  project appraisal work has improved considerably.
Follow-up is still weak but satisfactory measures have been taken to effect
an improvement. Industrial Projects Department I, which will be primarily
responsible for processing sub-projects to be financed under the proposed
loan, is to be strengthened with 25 more professional staff to-be recruited
in the coming year. To provide sound and consistent principles for guiding
its appraisal and follow-up work DBP has agreed to adopt a Statement of Oper-
ating Policies and Procedures for Industrial Financing, the contents of which
have been agreed with the Bank.



- iii -
ix.       In addition to helping finance Philippine industries (and small-
holder tree-farmers), the proposed loan would enable the Bank, through an
evolving relationship and an on-going process of sub-project review, to
help in improving DBP's appraisal, follow-up and financial planning. In
opening up channels of communications with DBP and, indirectly, BOI the
proposed loan will also facilitate closer discussion of issues affecting
industrial policy.
x.        For reasons outlined in paragraphs (vi) and (vii) the proposed
loan would be made to the Government for relending to DBP under a suitable
subsidiary loan agreement. A fixed amortization schedule of 18 years in-
cluding 4-1/2 years of grace is recommended. The relending rate charged to
ultimate sub-borrowers by DBP is expected to be 12% per annum (the present
maximum rate applicable to secured loans in the Philippines). The Gcvern-
ment would on-lend to DBP at 7-1/4%. The US$48 million component to be
used for financing industry is expected to provide about 15% of DBP's re-
sources required for industrial financing for the two-year period beginning
July 1, 1974. The foreign exchange risk on currencies of procurement would
be assumed by industrial sub-borrowers; that on currencies of obligation
would be borne by the Government. To ensure that the loan proceeds would
go to a relatively large number of industrial projects, a ceiling of US$5
million would be set on any industrial sub-loan made under the proposed
loan. A free limit of US$1 million is recommended, with an aggregate of
US$20 million; based on the average size of DBP's industrial projects, about
one-half by number or three-fourths by amount of DBP's sub-loans would re-
quire the Bank's prior approval. The Government would assume the full ex-
change risk on the US$2 million amount for the tree-farming project to be
on-lent in pesos by DBP to tree-farmers.
xi.       During negotiations, the Bank and DBP have discussed and agreed
upon:
(a) measures to augment the staff of Industrial Projects
Department I (para 4.02);
(b) a Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for
Industrial Financing, to be adopted by DBP's Board
(para 4.03);
(c) further measures for accelerating the account-by-account
examination of DBP's industrial portfolio in arrears
(para 4.10);
(d) steps for evaluating DBP's existing audit system,
identifying its weaknesses and developing a program
for remedying these weaknesses (para 4.11);



- iv -
(e) the substance of an agreement between DBP and the Paper
Industries Corporation of the Philippines (PICOP) regarding
the provision of technical assistance and seedlings by
PICOP to the tree-farmers; the guarantee of a suitable
minimum price by PICOP (para 5.08); and the continuation
by PICOP of its insect prevention and control program
(para 5.07);
(f) a minimum contribution by the smallholder of 25Z of sub-
project cost by way of his own labor (para 5.07); and
(g) the compilation of a list of prospective borrowers in the
project area (para 5.08).



PHILIPPINES
APPRAISAL OF
A LOAN FOR FINANCING INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT
THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In response to a request from the Government of the Philippines
a Bank loan of US$50 million is recommended to provide financing for:
(a) capital import requirements of industrial projects; and
(b) credit for about 1,300 smallholder tree-farmers in
Mindanao (Annex 10).
Both project components are to be financed through the Development Bank of
the Philippines (DBP).
1.02      Since 1971, the Banc has made three loans to the Government for
financing agricultural projects (rice processing, livestock and fisheries)
through DBP. As with those three agricultural loans, the proposed loan
would be made to the Government, and re-lent to DBP under a subsidiary loan
agreement acceptable to the Bank. Unlike the previous projects, the proposed
project would include arrangements to strengthen DBP administratively and
financially with a view to making it eligible for direct Bank loans at some
future date.
1.03      In formulating the loan proposal, it has not been possible to take
full account of the consequences of recent increases in petroleum prices on
the projec;ted demand for DBP's financing. However, available information
indicates that the proposed loan remains fully justified.
II. THE PHILIPPINE ECONOMY AND THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
The Economy -/
2.01      Background.  Prior to 1973 the performance of the Philippine
economy was relatively disappointing. Its growth rate belied the poten-
tial of a country with considerable natural resource endowments. Towards
the end of the 1960's increasing budgetary deficits, losses of foreign
reserves and the rapid accumulation of short-term foreign debt to an
1/   For a detailed discussion please refer to "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of the Philippines" (Report No. 78-PH dated April 20,
1973). An economic mission is in the field to update this report.



unmanageable level compelled the Government to adopt a floating exchange
rate (para 2.11) and embark on a program of stabilization in February 1970.
The restrained monetary and fiscal policies introduced under the program
sharply curbed both investment and growth. The adjusted exchange rate
reduced export earnings, increased the import bill and resulted in a signi-
ficant deterioration in the external terms of trade. The economy also
experienced rapid inflation between 1969-72; prices increased by about 45%
over that period, resulting in a drop in real incomes for the wage-earning
group and an increase in unemployment. Economic recovery, which began
slowly in 1971, was severely set back in 1972 with the worst floods in
20 years and a large drop in agricultural production. The resulting eco-
nomic pressures provoked widespread civil unrest which culminated in the
imposition of martial law in September 1972.
2.02      Current Performance.  With the subsequent restoration of stability,
the passage of economic reforms and favorable changes in world commodity
prices, the economy registered an impressive 10% real growth rate in 1973.
Improved performance was recorded in every sector.  The agricultural sector
which had suffered from adverse iweather conditions during the previous three
years grew by 11%. Export earnitigs rose to a record high of $1.7 billion
in 1973 (55% over 1972) reflecting increases in both traditional exports
(mainly due to prices) and new exports, particularly manufactures (paragraph
2.05). Net foreign exchange reserves rose to US$835 million at the close
of 1973 - the highest in Philippine history. On the domestic front, measures
such as tax reforms, amnesties and improved collection resulted in a 38%
increase in tax revenues in 1973. Investment activity and foreign capital
inflows also rose to levels substaatially above those of 1972.
2.03      Future Directions.  As outlined in the 1974-77 Development Plan
the Government's economic strategy aims at increasing the long-term annual
growth rate to over 7% in real terms and increasing the annual rate of
employment creation to over 4%. However a slowdown in the growth of the
economies of its major trading partners (viz., the USA, Japan and Europe)
may dampen growth in 1974. The projected oil import bill remains a con-
tinuing source of uncertainty threatening the country's reserves position.
Whereas 1973 exceeded expectations, the ensuing period may be one of con-
solidation with the groundwork being laid for a sustained rate of better
distributed growth.
2.04      The Role of Industry.  Over the long term, heavy reliance is being
placed on industrial expansion in achieving income and employment growth
targets.  Specifically, the Government's thrust is toward the promotion of
employment opportunities through the encouragement of labor intensive methods
of production, increasing foreign exchange earnings through the rapid expan-
sion of manufactured exports, the strengthening of intra-and inter-industry
linkages and the intensification of efforts at a wider regional dispersion
of investment. Accordingly, the Government has given priority to invest-
ments in export-oriented projects and to the further development of small-
and medium-scale industrial enterprises. 1/
1/   A Bank loan for Small-Scale Industry has been scheduled for FY75.



-3-
The Industrial Sector -
2.05      Recent growth.  Industry (manufacturing, mining and construction)
represents the third largest sector in the Philippine economy (after agri-
culture and services), accounting for 27% of net domestic product in 1973,
absorbing over a third of total fixed investment and providing employment
for 15% of the total labor force. Reflecting the strong recovery of the
economy in 1973, industry grew by around 11%, a markedly higher rate than
the average growth rate of 6% in the 1960's and early 70's. An increasing
proportion of manufacturing output was export-oriented. Non-traditional
manufactures accounted for over 11,8% of total exports in 1973 compared
with less than 5.7% in 1969, increasing in value from US$49 million in 1969
to US$200 million in 1973.
2.06      Structure.  Manufacturing, which accounts for over two-thirds of
all industrial activity, is predominantly privately owned and is generally
concentrated in large-scale, vertically integrated, relatively capital-
intensive units. In 1971, organized manufacturing units with kewer than
20 employees accounted for 85% of the number of enterprises but for less
than 17% of industrial employment, 8% of the payroll, 4.7% of value added and
5.5% of total assets of manufacturing enterprises. By sectors, food and bev-
erages represent the largest industry group, with chemicals and petrochemicals
second, and textiles ranking third. Geographically, over 65% of manufacturing
enterprises are concentrated in the greater Manila and southern Luzon area,
with increasing industrialization taking place in Mindanao.
2.07      Orientation.  Its growing export orientation notwithstanding,
Philippine manufacturing is geared mainly to production for the domestic
consumer market. This is attributable to an industrialization strategy
which previously (in the 1950's and 60's) placed excessive emphasis on im-
port substitution, resulting in a domestic market highly protected by both
direct import controls and high tariffs. The industrial investment and
output thus encouraged tapered off with the exhaustion of possibilities for
easy import substitution. For a time, the protected market, the lack of
any direction and regulation of investment, and cheap capital resulted in
chronic overcapacity in several industries and created severe financial
difficulties for several large enterprises. However, with better markets
at home and abroad, a more realistic exchange rate and better regulation
of investment this situation has improved considerably in the last two years.
Capacity expansion is now needed in4 some previously overcrowded industries
(most notably, cement).
2.08      Policies.  Since 1968, the industrial sector has been affected
by several policy changes. The most important of these include: (i) a
1/   The Industrial Sector is discussed in detail in a report entitled,
"Industrial Development Problems and Prospects in the Philippines",
dated March 19, 1974 (Report No. 280-PH).



- 4 -
reform of investment and export incentives and the establishment of the
Board of Investment (BOI); (ii) the exchange rate adjustment and (iii)
tariff policy.
2.09      Investment and Export Incentives.  The Investment Incentives Act
(R.A. 5186) of 1967 reformed and subsumed the previous fragmented structure
of incentives; it was supplemented by the Export Incentives Act (R.A. 6135)
in 1970. Both acts were amended in 1973 with a "labor-intensity" criterion
being introduced. These Acts resulted in a reduction of taxes and tariffs
foregone from 20% of annual gross investments (between 1965-68) to 10%
(between 1968-72) and in a change in the composition of taxes forgiven.
Exemptions have emphasized income and sales tax relief (which do not
discriminate against domestic products) and reduced reliance on import
duty. Export incentives, which have been widely availed of, have assisted
the growth of exports and the diversification of the export product range.
2.10      The Board of Investments (BOI).  The responsibility for determin-
ing the eligibility of and registering projects for incentives and regulat-
ing private industrial investment lies with the BOI. Accordingly, it: issues
an annual Investment Priorities Plan (IPP) listing those activities which
qualify for incentives; determines the additional capacity required in
industries; and approves individual investment projects in line with the
annual IPP. The BOI also draws up a periodical list of "overcrowded in-
dustries" in which the Government discourages further investments by refus-
ing incentives and foreign exchange for imports. The BOI plays a central
role as an "evaluation and appraisal" body which delves deeply into the
technical, financial and economic viability of industrial projects. Its
project evaluation is of high quality. BOI is, in addition, an active
promotional agency, which by virtue of its powers to provide or refuse
incentives guides investment and reshapes project design. It also assists
private investors with arrangements for domestic and international marketing
and subcontracting, and undertakes specific industry and market studies for
them. BOI has been endeavoring to improve its operations, policies and
procedures, and to that end has received, since 1972, the technical assist-
ance of the UNDP in a program for which the Bank is the Executing Agency.
About one-half of new industrial investment in the Philippines now goes
into projects approved by BOI. From its inception in June 1968 to June 30,
1973, BOI has approved 250 projects requiring a total investment of P 7.2
billion 1/, of which about P 4.3 billion (or 60%) represents fixed invest-
ment. When completed, these projects are expected to generate 46,000 addi-
tional jobs. Average fixed investment per job created for BOI projects has
been P 93,500 or $13,750, with a noticeable declining trend, reflecting BOI's
increasing emphasis on labor-intensive industries.
2.11      Exchange Rate.  The floating of the peso in February 1970 re-
sulted in a large de facto devaluation of about 60% (from P 3.9 to P 6.4
to US$1). The more realistic exchange rate reduced distortions in the
1/   At current exchange rates.



- 5 -
price of inputs, discouraged currency speculation through over-invoicing,
and made Philippine manufactured exporrs more competitive. Unfortunately,
it also hit very hard those industrial firms heavily dependent on imported
inputs and with sizeable foreign debts. The problems of debt-servicing
thus created are slowly being ironed out. The initial "shock" of the
devaluation has now worked itself through the system and the maintenance
of a more realistic exchange rate will probably have a salutary effect
on future resource allocation.
2.12      Revision of Tariffs.  A number of changes and improvements took
place in the structure of protection with the passage of Presidential
Decree No. 34 which took effect on January 1, 1973. Although introduced
principally as a revenue measure, the new tariff code has simplified and
re-arranged the previous structure. A minimum tariff rate of 10% is im-
posed on raw materials which have to be imported and on capital goods not
yet manufactured in the Philippines.  Higher rates, of between 30-70%, are
levied on intermediate and consumer goods, with a maximum 100% rate applied
to products manufactured domestically and to luxury items. The element of
protection in the tariff structure is reinforced by an import licensing
system administered in consultation with BOI for industrial products and
capital goods for which domestic capacity exists or is planned. BOI can
also recommend changes in tariff rates for industries included in the IPP.
Because of licensing and the fact that nominal rates for complete products
are higher than for inputs or components, the level of effective protection
for domestic finished products is generally higher than the nominal rate.
2.13      Policy-Making and Implementation.  The BOI, originally designed
as the principal regulatory agency which would guide industrial investment,
has, by default, been increasingly involved in policy-making. To relieve
it of the resulting overload two new Government agencies are expected to
play an important role alongside the BOI in formulating and implementing
industrial policies. The first is the National Economic Development Author-
ity (NEDA). Created in 1973, NEDA is now the principal apex policy-making
institution, and is responsible for the preparation of the 4-year Develop-
ment Plan. The second is the newly established Department of Energy and
Industry (DEI) which is expected to begin operating shortly.
Industrial Finance
2.14      Investment Requirements.  Total industrial investment over the
4-year period 1974-77 is expected to be around P 20 billion (in 1973
prices) 1/ or over 25% of total fixed capital formation. This represents
a real increase of about 60% over the previous 4 years. Investment in
manufacturing will account for over 67%, increasing in real terms by 20%
between 1974 and 1975 and by 10% thereafter. The Government expects 75%
1/   FY74-77 Development Plan estimate (NEDA).



- 6 -
of these requirements to be financed through domestic sources, 1/ 5% from
direct foreign investment and 20% from guaranteed commercial foreign borrow-
ings. This level of investment will require a doubling in resource mobili-
zation from traditional domestic sources. The main sources of industrial
finance are discussed below.
2.15      Development  Banks.  Two institutions, DBP and the Private
Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP) are the main providers
of long-term finance with DBP by far the larger of the two (paragraph 3.01).
PDCP's total assets as of the end of 1973 were P 676 million, with outstand-
ing loans to industry amounting to P 441 million. Its foreign resources are
derived mainly from the Bank Group (US$80 million so far) and t:he Asian Dev-
elopment Bank (US$45 million).
2.16      Commercial Banks.  There are 35 privately-owned Filipino com-
mercial banks, and two owned by the Government. Branches of four foreign
banks also operate in the Philippines. Over half of the Filipino banks
have been established in the last decade. They operate under a branch
banking system (there are over 700 branches) and are the main sources
of working capital and trading credits. The largest bank is the Government-
owned Philippine National Bank (PNB). With 161 branches, it accounts for
about 24% of the banking system's total assets (over P 30 billion at the
end of 1973). The banking system has grown rapidly in 1972 and 1973,
doubling its assets in that two-year period. Domestic credits provided by
commercial banks in 1973 amounted to P 21 billion, one-half of which went
to the manufacturing sector, mainly for short-term working capital.
2.17      Other Financial Institutions.  Besides DBP and PDCP, several
institutions provide term finance to industry. These include: (i) the
National Investment and Development Corporation (NIDC), a subsidiary of
PNB; (ii) private investment houses; (iii) insurance companies; and (iv)
pension and trust funds including the Government Service Insurance System
(GSIS) and the Social Security System (SSS), whose resources for industry
are funnelled mainly through DBP. While the outstanding loan portfolios
of these institutions now total over P 6 billion, the bulk of their lending
is for real estate (60%) and consumer loans (25%).
2.18      Suppliers' Credits.  Foreign commercial borrowings guaranteed
by domestic financial intermediaries (principally DBP) have in the past
accounted for 30-35% of investment in manufacturing. Prior to 1970, such
borrowings were obtained on relatively hard terms. As a result of the
stringent debt management measures taken since 1970 by the Central Bank
which stipulated minimum terms for foreign credits, and the substantial
increases in export earnings, the burden of servicing such debt has been
reduced to a manageable level.
1/   Includes cash generated internally by firms, personal savings and
resources mobilized by domestic financial intermediaries (DBP and
PDCP) from official multilateral and bilateral aid sources.



- 7 -
2.19      The Securities Market.  After a three-year slump, the Philippine
stock market experienced a remarkable year in 1973. While listings
continued their steady upward trend, increasing to 188 from 171 in the
previous year, trading reached an all tine high with a volume of 136
million shares worth P 6 billion.  This reflected a fivefold increase in
volume and ninefold in value over 1972. In addition 20 companies already
listed increased their capital stock from P 1.3 billion to P 3.1 billion
with a much wider base of public participation.  The comparatively
attractive price-earnings ratios of Philippine stocks also drew funds from
the Japanese and Hong Kong markets. The substantial gains in capital
market activity in 1973 were attributable to several factors such as the
general recovery of the economy, a decline in money market rates, and
structural reforms based on the recommendations of a joint IMF-Central
Bank Ccmmission.  The reforms included such measures as a reduction in
the stock transfer tax; exemption from capital gains on the securities
of preferred productive enterprises; repatriation of foreign capital
and profits; a tax amnesty wl4ich returned several hundred million pesos
from the "black market" to tLe capital market; and a compulsory dividend
declaration rule for companies generating profits in excess of reasonable
capital expansion requirements.
2.20      Interest Rates.  The Anti-Usury Law of 1916 previously limited
lending rates to 12% and 14% per annum on secured and unsecured loans
respectively. Effective lending rates on some commercial bank loans were
however 4 to 6 points higher with add-on charges, compensatory balances
r,nd advance interest collection. In the past few years these rigid legal
limits have resulted in distorting both the mobilization and allocation
of capital resources and led to the growth of an unorganized "private"
market. On the deposit side, with the rate of price increases averaging
about 12-13% annually in the recent past, depositors have received a negative
rate of interest (present deposit rates are 6-8%) and the flow of private
savings to the banking system has been depressed. With these rates of
inflation it is unlikely that financial institutions will be able to mobilize
a significantly greater volume of domestic savings without increasing their
deposit and (consequently) lending rates from current levels. Up to now
they have not been in a position to compete for funds with the money market
(whose rates are not covered by the Law) or even with short-term Government
instruments which yield between 12 and 14%. The Law has been amended recently
to empower the Monetary Board of the Central Bank to raise lending rate ceil-
ings in accord with prevailing economic conditions. The Monetary Board,
however, has not yet done so.
2.21      Prospects.  Plan expectations are that corporate savings and
personal savings channelled through the capital market will provide about
45% of total industrial financing requirements. In the light of current
levels of profitability and capital market activity (paragraph 2.19) these
expectations are reasonable. Financial intermediaries are expected to
mobilize a further 30% (or P 6 billion) over the 4-year period, including



-8-
foreign borrowings from aid and commercial sources 1/, and domestic savings
(paragraph 2.20). The remaining 25%, expected to come from direct and in-
direct foreign investment (guarantees), represents a reduced reliance on
guarantees (paragraph 2.18), a desirable but uncertain prospect.
III. DBP-ROLE IN THE ECONOMY
Overall Operations
3.01      Including the operations undertaken by its predecessor (the Re-
habilitation Finance Corporation) 2/ aggregate approvals by DBP of loans,
guarantees, and equity investments through September 30, 1973 amounted to
P 14.3 billion (US$2.1 billion). Foreign currency guarantees accounted for
P 8.8 billion (US$1.3 billion) or 62% of total approvals as of September 31,
1973. Loans, equity investments, and domestic guarantees accotnt for 33%,
4% and 1%, respectively. By sectors, the bulk of DBP's financing has gone
to industry. 3/ Including guarantees 4/ and equity investments, industry has
received P 11.3 billion or 79% of total approvals, agriculture 10%, real
estate 7%, and other sectors, including the private development banks, the
balance of 4%. As of December 31, 1973, DBP's overall outstanding portfolio
of loans, guarantees and equity investments stood at P 6.6 billion, for over
100,000 accounts. DBP's financing in the past four years accounted for about
11% of total fixed capital formation in the Philippines; its industrial fi-
nancing for 28% of total fixed capital formation in manufacturing and mining.
Annex 1 smmarizes DBP's overall operations.
Economic Contribution
3.02      By virtue of the sheer size of its financing and the multiplicity
of its activities, DBP's role in the economic development of the Philippines
is self-evident. Unfortunately, it is virtually impossible to quantify the
overall economic contribution of the industrial projects it has financed.
DBP has not systematically collected the necessary data on these projects
to enable such an evaluation to be made. Projected economic data on a re-
presentative sample of 45 BOI-registered projects financed by DBP (through
1/   These sources can be expected to provide P 2-3 billion (US$300-400 mil-
lion) between 1974-77.
2/   DBP was established by statute in 1958 as a successor to the Rehabili-
tation Finance Corporation (RFC), which was created in 1947.
3/   "Industry" includes manufacturing, mining, transportation and shippings,
electric power, agro-industries, etc.
4/   Of total foreign currency guarantees approved, 93% for industry, 4% for
real estate and 3% for agriculture.



-9-
loans and foreign guarantees) in FY72 and FY73 do, however, provide a par-
tial measure of the economic benefits of these projects. DBP's financing,
amounting to P 592 million (US$87 million), was part of a total investment
of about P 1.2 billion, of which P 810 million represented fixed investment.
The additional direct employment generated by these projects, when completed,
is estimated at about 8,300. Net foreign exchange earnings/savings by these
projects are estimated to amount annually to US$50 million. The average
financial rate of return of these projects was 20%; the average economic
rate of return, 14%. The average cost of fixed investment per worker is
about US$14,000, about the same as the average for all BOI projects. As in
the recent past (paragraph 4.08), DBP is expected to continue financing
mainly those industrial projects approved by BOI.
Promotion
3.03      DBP does not play a direct role in the promotion of medium- and
large-scale industries since this would merely duplicate work now being done
adequately by the BOI (paragraph 2.10). DBP has, however, been actively en-
gaged in promoting and financing broadly based development in rural areas.
Its 32 branches and 24 agencies have been organized into eight "regional
action groups" to undertake economic surveys and identify potential projects.
These groups have already completed a number of feasibility studies (several
more are under preparation), including those on mango development, tuna
fishing, tractor drum wheel, paddy thresher, and corn husker-sheller manu-
facturing. DBP's "countryside development program", has since its inception
in 1971, resulted in its making about 44,000 loans amounting to P 357 million,
for agriculture (67%), small industries (17%) and other activities (16%). In
the last year DBP has been actively assisting the Government in formulating
a comprehensive national program for the development of small- and medium-
scale industries which will attempt to integrate the provision of both fi-
nancial and technical assistance to these enterprises along with specialized
marketing and promotional services.
3.04      DBP has also devoted its resources and manpower to several non-
profit developmental undertakings. Most recently it has played a central
role in establishing, in 1973, and helping operate, the Development Academy
of the Philippines (DAP), a multi-disciplinary institute oriented toward
applied research in economic development. A notable undertaking by DAP is a
Medium and Small-Scale Industry Coordinated Action Program (MASICAP) which
attempts to identify specific small industrial projects, seeks out entre-
preneurs to implement those projects, and provides them with technical
assistance. Since the program was launched a mere six months ago it is dif-
ficult to gauge its success. From the evidence available so far, it has pro-
mising prospects.



- 10 -
IV. DBP - THE INSTITUTION
-Ownership, Oranization aud Maae
4.01      DBP was established in 1958 and is fully owned by the Government.
Its organization (Chart 8558) which reflects the diversity of its activities
has recently undergone a major change that resulted in noticeable improve-
ments in its efficiency, particularly in its industrial operations. Over-
all management is entrusted to a nine-member Board of Governors (Annex 2)
appointed by the President of the Philippines for 7-year terms. Presided
over by a full-time Chairman, who is also the chief executive officer, the
Board has four full-time Governors with executive authority and four part-
time Governors chosen from senior levels of Government. The present
chairman - Mr. Leonides S. Virata - was appointed in February 1970. Along
with re-organizing DBP, he has gradually built up a capable and effective
management team which is beginning to make a large and complex organization
much more tractable. DBP's industrial financing operations are now con-
centrated in three departments, Department I dealing with large loans
(above P 1 million), Department II with small loans (below P 1 million) and
Department III with public utilities and transport loans (any size). This
represents a marked change from the previous concentration in two departments,
one dealing with loans and guarantees and the other with equity investments
and "package financing" arrangements, each department having entirely differ-
ent appraisal procedures. The present arrangement, emphasising "client
specialization", appears more responsive and efficient. The proposed Bank
Loan will be handled principally by Department I, a well-managed though
presently under-staffed unit (paragraph 4.02). This Department (as the
other two) undertakes both appraisal and follow-up work on its loans.
Staffing
4.02      As of December 31, 1973, DBP's total staff numbered 2,249, of
whom 1,055 were professionals. The staff, of generally good calibre, are
evenly divided between headquarters and DBP's widespread network of 32
branches and 24 agencies. The latter account for about 75% of DBP's total
agricultural financing and for less than 10% of its industrial lending, most
of which is small-scale. Department I has 29 professional staff members of
-r?horn 3 are supervisory, 10 are engineers and the rest, financial analysts.
Most of them have worked at DBP for over 5 years. In view of projected
levels of activity, management is aware that the Department is, at present,
considerably understaffed, and plans to strengthen it in the coming year
with 25 more professionals. This expansion should enable the Department
to strengthen both its appraisal and follow-up work (paragraphs 4.04 and
4.05). DBP's plans for augmenting Department I's staff have been discussed
at negotiations. DBP has made satisfactory arrangements to ensure that
sufficient staff will be available when the proposed loan becomes effective
and that recruitment thereafter will keep pace with requirements.



- 11 -
Operating Policies
4.03      Apart from its Charter, which provides a few policy directions
and stipulates limits (e.g. a 10:1 debt/equity ratio), DBP has no policy
statement to guide operations. In most instances operations are guided by
policy precedents established on an ad hoc basis. To lay down sound and
consistent principles for guiding appraisal and follow-up work DBP has
agreed, in its discussions with the appraisal mission, to adopt a Statement
of Operating Policies and Procedures for Industrial Financing. The contents
of this statement (Annex 3), have been discussed and agreed upon at negotia-
tions.
Appraisal
4.04      DBP's industrial project appraisal has improved substantially in
quality since the visit of the Bank's reconnaissance mission in May 1972,
which at the time identified and discussed specific appraisal weaknesses
with DBP's management. The improvement is particularly noteworthy since
before 1970 DBP carried out virtually no appraisal other than an evaluation
of the client's credit standing. There is, however, room for further improve-
ment, particularly with respect to the evaluation of a project's economic
merits. As a first step toward remedying this weakness DBP has undertaken
to establish an economic evaluation unit within Department I. Since most
of the sub-projects expected to be financed under this loan will be registered
with the BOI, DBP will, in the interim, incorporate BOI's economic evaluation
(which is satisfactory) whenever appropriate in its appraisal reports and will
take into account the economic rate of return as a factor in its lending
decisions. These qualitative improvements in DBP's appraisal will need to
be matched with improved procedural arrangements. At present each of the
technical/financial, marketing and creditworthiness aspects of appraisal are
undertaken separately by three separate departments 1/. The final document
presented to the Board for decision-making is usually only a descriptive
project summary devoid of essential judgement and critical analysis. It
rarely reflects the underlying appraisal work that has actually been carried
out. The appraisal mission has discussed these matters in depth with DBP's
management, who have agreed to make appropriate substantive, procedural and
presentational improvements 2/.
1/   Technical and financial analysis is carried out by the industrial
department concerned (paragraph 4.01) while marketing and credit-
worthiness analysis are carried out by the Economic Research Unit
and Credit Department respectively.
2/   In addition to establishing the economic evaluation unit and in-
corporating BOI's evaluation, DBP has also agreed to pay more atten-
tion to project merits in its reports and to change their format. As
DBP's underlying appraisal work is sufficiently thorough, many of these
changes are merely presentational and should be easy to implement.



- 12 -
Followugt
4.05      DBP's management has readily acknowledged that its follow-up work
is weak and has already taken steps to strengthen it. Apart from increasing
follow-up staff, systematic procedures for supervision are to be instituted
along with comprehensive reporting requirements from borrowers in addition
to their annual reports and Board minutes. Plant and site visits for
supervision purposes are to be stepped up; findings concerning progress
in project implementation along with judgements on the continuing viability
of the borrower and project on the basis of these visits are to be regularly
recorded. Financial statements including annual reports are to be more
systematically reviewed. DBP is also sending its managers to development
finance companies with good follow-up procedures and experience to learn
from them and adopt systems appropriate for DBP's follow-up needs. The
appraisal mission has reviewed these arrangements with DBP's management
and found them to be satisfactory.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.06      DBP's procurement practices are adequate.  Although DBP does not
routinely require its borrowers to invite bids on an international basis,
it usually requires firms applying for a foreign currency loan or guarantee
to submit two or more alternative proforma contracts and/or quotations.
The price and suitability of the equipment proposed to be purchased is
subject to a careful check by DBP's staff. DBP's disbursement procedures
are also adequate. Loans are disbursed against supporting documents, fol-
lowing physical inspection by the staff of progress of construction or com-
pletion of the project.
Financial Planning
4.07      DBP has not undertaken any advance financial planning up to the
appraisal mission's visit. Although short-term (12-month) budget and re-
source forecasts were prepared, the absence of planning over a longer time
perspective did not permit timely anticipation of resource needs. To remedy
this situation a Financial Planning Committee has been established to pre-
pare three-year business forecasts and financial projections. The Committee
is suitably constituted and on the basis of discussions held in the field,
substantial improvement in planning may reasonably be expected over the next
year.
92erations
4.08      The growth of DBP's operations since its inception (paragraph
3.01) took place mainly during the 1960's, with a shift in emphasis from
direct lending in the early years to guarantees in the late 1960's. The
shift reflected mainly the inadequacy of resources to meet the substantial
increase in financing requirements. After a marked slowdown during 1971
and 1972, a result of the unfavorable economic situation and of DBP's
serious liquidity problems brought about by clients' defaults (paragraph
4.10), operations started to pick up in 1973. Loan approvals during FY 73



- 13 -
totalled P 220.3 million, compared to P 157.8 million during FY 72 and
P 50.1 million during FY71, but were still well below the annual level of
P 450 million in FY70. Loan disbursements also increased to P 372.6 million
in FY73 compared with P 232.4 million in FY72, P 289.1 million in FY71 and
P 398.9 million in FY70. Approvals of foreign currency guarantees amounted
to US$214 million in FY73, compared with US$155 million in FY72, US$75 mil-
lion in FY71 and US$278 million in FY70. DBP's response to the pickup in
investment activity in 1973 was enabled by new borrowings (Annex 7, para 6)
and its stronger financial and liquidity position (Annex 5, paras 3, 4 and
5). The upturn has continued into FY74, with loan approvals amounting to
P 139 million, and approvals of foreign guarantees totalling US$140 million
during the six-month period ended December 31, 1973. Annex 4 describes DBP's
financing activities in greater detail.
Financial Condition
4.09      In judging DBP's financial position, it is essential to take into
account the fact that DBP is a Government-owned development institution which
is relied on heavily to undertake priority investments. When necessary, the
Government has shown itself willing to assist DBP with servicing its debt and
maintaining a desirable volume of financing. The most recent example of such
support was the conversion in 1973 of P 1.3 billion of debt owed to the Gov-
ernment and Central Bank into DBP equity. DBP's present financial problems
are mainly the result of client defaults on loans and guarantees made during
1968-70 when its appraisal work was very weak. Several marginal projects
were badly hit with the peso devaluation of 1970, especially those which were
heavily dependent on imports. A large number of firms were unable to gener-
ate enough cash to service their increased debts. Many of these clients are
only just beginning to overcome these difficulties and improvements in DBP's
finances can be expected once their cash generating capacity is restored.
Recent improvements in DBP's profitability, liquidity and capital structure
(see Annex 5) are expected to continue.
4.10      Although a slight improvement is discernible, its large volume
of arrears will continue to pose the main financial problem facing DBP for
some time. With the improvements expected in DBP's appraisals, in clients'
ability to service their debts and in collections 1/ the arrears situation
is expected to improve gradually. It will not be possible to estimate DBP's
likely losses on existing arrears until the detailed examination of DBP's
portfolio, which has already begun, has been completed. This account-by-
account examination of industrial loans and guarantees in arrears has been
undertaken with a view to determining the repayment capacity of each borrower
so that appropriate decisions can be taken on further action, i.e. restruc-
turing of accounts, rescheduling, or legal action. When completed the analysis
1/   A recently issued Presidential Decree has considerably strengthened
DBP's collection efforts. The Decree compels mandatory foreclosure
for all loans on which arrearages (interest and penalties included)
amount to 20% or more of total outstanding obligations.



- 14 -
will provide a clearer picture of the condition of DBP's industrial portfolio
and the appropriate level of provisions for possible losses. This matter has
been discussed with DBP at negotiations, and a suitable program of further
action has been agreed upon (Annex 6).
Audit
4.11      Under DBP's Charter, its accoumts are audited by DBP's Audit
Department, consisting of Government auditors responsible to the Commission
on Audit of the Government. Although the audit is generally thorough, it
does not allow conclusive judgements to be made about DBP's present financial
position since it does not comment on the quality of the portfolio and the
adequacy of provisions made for doubtful accounts. At negotiations, the Bank
and DBP discussed, and agreed upon, steps to be taken for: evaluating the
present audit thoroughly; identifying its weaknesses; and implementing meas-
ures for strengthening it. At DBP's request the Bank has agreed to provide
assistance with the audit evaluation.
4.12      Until DBP's arrears are analyzed, suitable provisions for possible
losses are made and a suitable program for remedying audit deficiencies is
under way, the proposed loan should be made to the Government for relending
to DBP, rather than directly to DBP.
Resource Requirements and Prospects
4.13      Annex 7 gives details on the sources of DBP funds.  DBP's capacity
to mobilize domestic resources from the public will remain limited as long
as the present lending rate ceilings are in force; till then it will be
unable to compete for funds with the money market or with short-term Govern-
ment instruments (paragraph 2.20). Consequently it will continue to rely
heavily on the Government and its agencies for peso resources. In the past,
DBP has obtained such resources, largely on an ad hoc basis, to meet emer-
gencies, as in 1970-72 when DBP faced serious liquidity problems because of
massive defaults on foreign guarantees (Annex 5, paragraph 5). As noted in
paragraph 4.07, DBP has now begun to prepare long-term financial projections,
which should enable it to plan its operations and anticipate resource needs
on a more systematic long-range basis.
4 14      Annex 8 provides forecasts of DBP's operations for FY74 through
FY76 including its financial projections. Excluding some mining projects,
requiring very large amounts which will not be financed under the proposed
loan, DBP expects to commit industrial loans and guarantees for a total of
US$$350 million during the two-year period beginning July 1, 1974. The
industrial component of the proposed Bank loan (US$48 million) would provide
about 15% of DBP's resources required for industrial financing during that
period, and would permit DBP to avoid guaranteeing this amount of more ex-
pensive foreign suppliers' credits. Defaults on new guarantees (which would
account for the remainder of its financing) are expected to be minimal mainly
because DBP's appraisals are considerably stronger, and the terms of guaran-
tees are now vetted by the Central Bank. DBP's liquidity position is expected



- 15 -
to continue improving and its debt service cover is expected to increase
from 0.9:1 in FY73 and FY74 to above unity in FY75 and thereafter (see
Annex 8, paragraph 8).
V. OBJECTIVES AND FEATURES OF THE LOAN
The Industrial Loan
5.01      Project Description.   The industrial portion of the loan (US$48
million) would finance medium and relatively large industrial sub-projects.
As with other Bank loans to development finance companies, eligible enter-
prises would be broadly defined to include manufacturing, as well as agro-
industries, mining, ocean-shipping 11, hotel projects, etc. The projects
financed under this loan are expected to be consonant with the country's
investment priorities and development objectives (para 3.02).
5.02      The main beneficiaries under this loan will be medium- and large-
scale firms, which for some time, will continue to provide the main oppor-
tunities for increasing both employment and export earnings; the Govern-
ment's principal industrial development objectives. The recent restructur-
ing of incentives to encourage greater labor-intensity and export orientation
implicitly recognizes this. In the past, such enterprises have generally
been financed with loans from foreign commercial sources, on relatively hard
terms. Since the proposed loan will replace such commercial borrowings, it
is expected to relieve pressure on the Philippine balance of payments in the
future.
5.03      DBP as the Intermediary.  Since 1962, the Bank Group has assisted
Philippine industry with four loans totalling US$80 million channeled through
the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP). The proposed
loan has been prompted by a Government request to the Bank to also consider
using DBP as an intermediary for financing industry, in view of both its
considerably greater overall impact and the scope for further institution-
building.
5.04      Objectives.  DBP, in the mission's view, has the capability of
meeting the principal objective of the proposed loan i.e. to efficiently
allocate Bank funds in the industrial sector. Further institutional improve-
ments in DBP's standards and procedures are also specific objectives under
the proposed loan, as are improvements in its planning and audit. The Bank's
institution-building impact on DBP is expected to deepen with a continuing
relationship and through the sub-project review process. In view of DBP's
role and its close working relationship with BOI (para 3.02), the proposed
loan also provides the Bank with a useful vehicle for discussion of broader
policy issues affecting the Philippine industrial sector.
1/   A Bank loan specifically for Philippine inter-island shipping is under
appraisal.



- 16 -
5.05      Justification.  An.ex ante calculation of the economic rate of
return for this part of the project is not possible, since the specific
sub-projects to be financed are not yet identified.  As noted in para-
graph 3.02, a representative sample of DBP-financed projects is estimated
to yield an average economic rate of return of around 14% and an internal
financial return of around 20%.
T    Tree-2arming Project
5.06      In response to a Government request for Bank assistance through
DBP to smallholder tree farmers, the proposed loan also includes a component
for this separate and unrelated project. The small size of the project, its
timing and the fact that it would be channelled through DBP, make it adminis-
tratively simple and more convenient to deal with it as part of the proposed
loan.
5.07     -Project Description and. Obectives.  An amount of US$2 million of
the total loan will be used by DBP for a pilot smallholder tree-farming proj-
ect, described in some detail in Annex 9. The project calls for the planting
in Mindanao by about 1,3D0 participating smallholders of a fast growing pulp-
wood species (Albizi-a falcata) which takeo about eight years to mature.
Sub-loans made by DBP to individual smallholders would be disbursed over a
period of about four years, _but would have an eight year grace period so that
repayments would begin after the first harvest. The term of sub-loans would
be 15 years. The pulpwood will be purchased by the Paper Industries Corpora-
tion of the Philippines (PICOP), which would also provide seedlings (at cost)
and technical assistance.toamallholders.  It would also continue its-present
program of insect cont:rol (Annex 10, pars 16).  Al1though the amount for this
project is relatively :sall the Govarment eand DBP strongly requested the
Bank to participate in the prqjact. This pxLtot project As expected to make
a substantial contribution to %the annual income of the ~amalholdera concerned,,
who are expected to contribute at least 25% of project cost by way of their
own labor (Annex 10, para 19).  The project will Also provide the Bank with
useful experience in dealing with similar projects in the Philippines and
elsewhere in the world. -At present prices paid by :COP -the financial rate
of return for a five and ten hectare tree-farm would be 25%. The economic
rate of return is estimated,at about 14%.
5.08      To ensure an adequate income to smallholders., and more.generally
the adequate implementation of the project, there is a need for an agree-
ment between DBP and PICOP regarding the.guarantee by P-ICOP of a suitable
minimum stumpage price (Annex 10, paragraph 79), which should be renego-
tiated annually, and the provision of technical .assistance and seedlings
by PICOP to the tree-farmers (Annex 10, paragraph 22).  DBP has recruited
a qualified forester for project implementation (Annex 10, paragraph 21) and
is compiling a list of prospective borrowers in -the project area (Annex 10,
para 10).  Arrangements for the above have been discussed and.agreed upon
at negotiations.



- 17 -
Main Features of the Loan
5.09      Form of Bank Lending.  The proposed loan, like previous Bank agri-
cultural loans for DBP, would be made to the Government, which would relend
the proceeds to DBP, The main features of the loan would otherwise be in
line with standard Bank loans to development finance companies.
5.10      Currencies.  The industrial portion of the loan (US$48 million)
would be used by DBP to make sub-loans for financing direct imports for
industrial projects. The US$2 million portion earmarked for the tree farming
project would finance local costs, since this project does not need import
financing. If the total amount to be withdrawn by DBP from the loan for the
tree farming project is below US$2 million, the unused balance would revert
to the loan for industrial financing. The estimated disbursement schedule
under the loan is shown in Annex 9.
5.11      Foreign Exchange Risk.  Industrial sub-borrowers would bear the
foreign exchange risk on the foreign currencies of procurement; the Govern-
ment has proposed that it bear the exchange risk on the foreign currencies
of obligation. Under the tree farming project, since DBP's sub-loans to
smallholders would finance local costs, the Government would bear the total
foreign exchange risk.
5.12      Amortization Schedule.  For the sake of administrative simplicity,
and at the Government's and DBP's request, it is recommended that the loan
have a fixed amortization schedule. The term would be 18 years including a
grace period of 4-1/2 years. The maximum term of sub-loans would be 16 years
including grace. -
5.13      Free Limit.  A free limit of US$1 million for industrial sub-
loans, with an aggregate of US$20 million, is recommended.  It is expected,
on the basis of the average size of DBP's sub-loans, that under this free
limit, about one-half by number or three-fourths by amount of DBP's sub-
loans will require the Bank's prior approval.
5.14      Ceiling on Industrial Sub-loans.  To ensure that DBP will on-lend
the proceeds of the proposed loan to a relatively large number of industrial
projects, a ceiling of US$5 million (i.e. 10% of the loan amount) is recom-
mended for DBP's sub-loans to be made under the loan.
5.15      Relending Rate.  DBP will charge an interest rate of 12% per annum
to sub-borrowers. This is the maximum legal rate applicable to secured loans
in the Philippines (para 2.20). As with the previous Bank agricultural loans
for DBP, the Government is expected to charge DBP the same rate as the Bank's
lending rate (7-1/4%). If DBP is allowed to increase its lending rate, the
Bank will be consulted on the resulting spread.



- 18 -
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS AND AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.01      During negotiations the following matters were discussed and agreed
with DBP:
(a)  for the industrial loan:
(i)  the staffing of Industrial Projects Department I
(para 4.02);
(ii)  Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
for Industrial Financing (para 4.03);
(iii) plans for accelerating the account-by-account
examination of industrial accounts in arrears
being undertaken by DBP and determining a
suitable level of provisions for likely bad
debts (para 4.10)i
(iv) steps for evaluating DBP's existing audit system
and identifying its weaknesses, and undertaking a
program for remedying these weaknesses (para 4.11);
(b) for the forestry loan:
(i)  the agreement between DBP and PICOP with respect to:
technical assistance and seedlings to be provided by
PICOP to the tree-farmers (para 5.08); the guarantee
of a suitable minimum stumpage price PICOP to the
tree farmers (para 5.08); an.d the continuation by
PICOP of its insect prevention and control program
(para 5.07);
(ii)  the appointment by DBP of a qualified forester to
ensure efficient project implementation (para 5.08);
(iii) a minimum contribution by the smallholder of 25Z of
sub-project cost by way of his own labor (para 5.07); and
(iv)  the compilation of a list of prospective borrowers in
the project area (para 5.08).



DEVELOPhENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPfNES
Approvals of L.ans.Investments and Guarantees to September 30  1L973
Cumulative
January 2, 1947 to
FY 1971                             FT 1972                             57 19.7?3                 July li-Septenber 30, 1973                  September 197 3
No.         Amount       7.         No.         Amount        h         No.         Amount        7         No.         Amount        %         No.          Amount       7.
LoanS (P million)
industrial                                            99             9     18.0           246           61      38.6          277           55      25.0           39           23      34.8       18,074        2,622       55.2
Agricultural                                       5,032            24     48.0         8,840            55      34.8      12,858          109      49.5        4,367            24      36.4    191,629          1,146      24.1
Real estate                                        1,399             9      18.0        1,768            22     14.0        3,437            38     17.3          959             8      12.1      48,927           693      14.6
Government projects                                    4             2       4.0            5             8       5.1           8             5      2.3            1             9      13.7         675           172       3.6
Private development banks                             31             6      12.0           56            12       7.5          79            13      5.9           14             2       3.0         636           119       2.5
Total                                       6,565            50    100.0        10,915           158    100.0       16,659           220    100.0        5,380            66    100.0    259,941           4,752     100.0
Equity Tnvestme ts  FP million)
Preferred shares
Private companies                                   -             -         -            -             -         -           -                                                 -                    31           207      36.4
Government cofnpanies                               _5    100._                                                                                                                                      3           182      32.0
Private development banks                                       -            -           -                  -                -            -          -           -             -         -          31            29       5.1
Conua shares (private companies)                                                           2           149    100.___ _    _                                                               -            3          150      26.5
Total                                            -            -         -             2.         149    100.0             -            _         _            1            5    100.U            68          568    100.0
DomesticCurrency Guarantees  (P million)                   5           14    100.0              5           11    100.0             4           16    100.0             1            1    100.0            48           104    100.0
Foreien rErbanee Guarantees (US$ million)
Regular guarantees 1/                                  30           29      38.7           56            98      63.2          78           145      67.8           13           32       76.0         502        1, 0o6     84-4
CCC aid CWB Credits                                  127            46      61.3          100            57      36.8         139            69      32.2           19            9       22.0         429          203      15.6
Total                                          157           75    100.0            156          155    100.0           217          214    100.0            32           41      100.0         931         1,299     100.0
=                        =                 =                              _=_ =                                     =    =                             _ _
Grand Total (P-million equivalent) 2/                                 554                                1,372                               1,691                                 346                               14,257
I/  Rates used were the ones current during the period emcept cum-lative data which were converted at rates prevailing as of September 30, 1973
2/ P6.4 - $1.0 for FY71; P6.8 = $1.0 for other years.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 2
DEVEOIPMRET BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Board of Governors as of December 31, 1973
Name 1/                                  Functions and Background
Leonidas S. Virata                Chairman of Board of Governors.  Former Secretary
of Commerce. Director of Economic R?esearch of
the newly established (1949) Central Bank; acting
Deputy Governor and member of Monetary Board
until 1952. Financial Vice-President and Vice-
Chairman of the Philippine American Life Insurance
Company. President, 1965-66, of the Philippine
Chamber of Industries. Member, Philippine Tourism
Authority. Member, Cement Industjr Authority.
Member, Iron and Steel Authority.
Jose R. Tergco                    Full-time Governor, supervising the Agricultural
Projects Department and the Branches and Agencies
Department. Represents DBP in DBP-financed
private firms. Former Assistant Vice-President
of the Philippine Bank of Commerce.
Recio M. Garcia                   Full-time Governor, supervising the Acqinired
Assets Management Department, Real Estate &
Government Loans Department and, the Departement
of Development and Rural Banks. Represents
DBP in DBP-financed private firms. Former
Chairman and President, Quezon City Development
Bank. Vice-Chairman, Homeowners Finance Corpora-
tion and Citizens Development Inc.
Leon 0. Ty                        Part-time Governor.  Member of the Philippine
Bar.
Alejandro Melchor                 Part-time Governor.  Corcurrently Executive
Secretary to the President of the Philippines.
Alternate Director of the Asian Development Bark.
Chairman, Power Development Council. Directorate
Chairman, Fational Compuiter Center.  Member of
the Board, National Power Corporation. Member of
the Board, Philippine National Oil Company.
Presidential Action Officer for Foreign Loan-
Funded Projects. Member of the Board, Career
Executive Services. Member of the Board of
MERALCO.
'/ Two full-time Governor positiors and two part-time Governor positiors are
vacart.
Regioral Projects Department
'sia RPgional Office
'bnruary 7, 1974



ANNEX 3
Page 1
DEVELOPMET BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for
Medium- and Large-Scale Industrial Financing
Approved by the Board of Governors on            , 1974
1.        The policies, criteria and procedures set forth below will guide
IBP's medium- and large-scale industrial operations--particularly those
undertaken by Industrial Projects Department I and irrespective of the
sources of funds used for financing these operations.
2.        Objectives of Industrial Financing
To assist the development of the country by providing financial
and technical assistance for the establishment of new industries as well as
for the balancing, modernization and expansion of existing industries.
3.        Basis for Investment Decisions
DBP will make investment decisions on the basis of sound investment
criteria and standards, and after careful project evaluation. Financial
assistance will be provided to those projects which are financially and
economically viable and technically feasible, and for the implementation of
which satisfactory organizational and managerial arrangements have been made.
4.        Method of Financing
IBP will provide finance according to the requirements of each
project, in one or several of the following forms:
(a) direct loans in local currency, for financing local
expenditures on fixed assets and where appropriate for
working capital;
(b) direct loans in foreign currencies, for financing imports of
equipment and/or new materials;
(c) guarantees of domestic currency and/or foreign currency credits
made on suitable terms;
(d) loans fully or partly convertible into stock;
(e) in exceptional and highly meritorious cases, direct eqluity
investments and underwriting of share issues.
5.        General Investment Policies
(a) Financing will be provided to projects which are in line with
the investment priorities of the Government; preference being
given to projects registered with the Board of Investments (BOT)



ANNEX 3
Page 2
under the Investment Incentives Act or the Export Incentives
Act, or with other pertinent Government regulatory agencies.
(b) In accordance with normal banking practice, adequate security
will be required to cover the loans and guarantees, but the
main considerations will be the merits of proposed projects,
their repayment prospects and the soundness of management of
the enterprise.
(c) DBP will not seek a controlling interest in any enterprise
in which it has invested, or any other interest which would
give it responsibility for management, except when in its
judgement its investment is in jeopardy, in which case DBP
reserves the option of taking such action as may be necessary
to protect its interests.
6.        Project Appraisal Guidelines
(a) Each investment decision will be made on the basis of a
thorough project evaluation, reflected in an appraisal
report, which will be a self-contained and comprehensive
document outlining facts, analyses and judgements on the
essential aspects (including technical, marketing, management,
financial and economic) of the project as well as recommendations
on special contractual arrangements. In appropriate instances,
the report will incorporate essential complementary elements
of the BOI's appraisal work, in particular its economic
evaluation and marketing analysis. These inclusions not-
withstanding, DEBP's appraisal reports will in any event include
DBP's own judgements on these matters as well.
(b) Project appraisal will generally include the calculation
of the internal financial and economic rates of return for
projects of which the total project cost exceeds US$2 million
equivalent. If the economic rate of return is below 10%,
special justification will be required in the appraisal report
which recommends a decision to finance the project.
(c) Each appraisal report will provide in detail the estimated
cost of the project, including working capital requirements
and adequate contingencies. Prior to committing its own
funds DBP will satisfy itself that funds expected from sources
other than DBP (i.e. borrower's own contribution, plus borrowings
fromother lending institutions) will be avaLlable in sufficient
amounts when needed to cover the total financing requirements
of the project.
7.        Lending Terms
(a) Each industrial loan will be made on a term and with a grace
period consistent with the repayment capacity of the enter-
prise based on projected cash-flows, and related to the useful
life of the assets financed by the loan.



ANNEI 3
Page 3
(b)  Each investment project f: nanced by DBP will normally have
an equity capital equivalemt to 25% of total project cost.
In the case of an expansion project of an existing enterprise,
funds generated internally- are considered as equity for this
purpose.
(c) DBP will take steps adequ;.te to protect itself against the
foreign exchange risk on :.ts lending operations and guarantees.
8.        Project Supervision Guidelines
It is the policy of DBP to: (a) undertake systematic follow-up
on the progress and operation of the projects financed by it, in
order to establish whether the actual developments correspond
with the expectations and projections on the basis of which the
investment decision was made, ajnd to keep DBP's management
currently informed of the project status so that it may take
timely and appropriate action. Accordingly DBP requires its
borrowers to submit regular periodical reports on the physical
and financial progress of the project, and on its operational
and financial performance. Fwuthermore projects are visited
at appropriate intervals to confirm the state of progress, to
check on the efficiency, organization and management of the
project, and to discuss problems of mutual concern with the
borrower's management. (b)  maintain close scrutiny of  its
accounts in arrears. Each individual account in arrears is
analyzed in detail at least once annually in order to identify
the causes for arrears and to determine the repayment capacity of
the enterprise. On the basis of this analysis DBP's management
takes appropriate measures (including legal action), for collection,
rescheduling, or restructuring of the account.
t,






ANNEX 4
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
CHARACTERISTICS OF DBP's FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Industrial Financing
1.        Local currency_and import financing.  Until 1965 straight loans
represented the only form of industrial financing by DBP. All loans were
made in domestic currency. Many of DBP's peso loans were used by borrowers
to purchase foreign exchange from the Central Bank to finance imports.
From 1965, after DBP began to guarantee foreign credits (paragraph 2),
it stopped making peso loans for financing imports. Since then, peso fi-
nancing by DBP (loans, equity investments, and domestic guarantees), for
financing local expenditures of the industrial sector, amounted to P 1.8
billion through September 30, 1973, accounting for 18% of total industrial
financing of P 10 billion during that period.
2.        Guarantees.  DBP's foreign currency guarantees fall under two cate-
gories. Guarantees termed "regular" are those given by DBP to cover private
foreign suppliers' credits, generally for importation of industrial capital
goods. From 1965 through September 30, 1973, approvals of these foreign
currency guarantees have totalled US$1.1 billion or 84% of DBP's total
foreign guarantee operations. The second category consists of guarantees
given by DBP, as administering agency, under the CCC and CWB bilateral credits
for the importation of raw cotton, tobacco, and wheat flour (Annex 6, para 6).
Through September 30, 1973, approvals of CCC and CWB guarantees amounted to
US$203 million or 16% of foreign guarantee approvals. In addition to its
foreign currency guarantees, DBP also guarantees peso credits extended by
local banks to local enterprises, usually for working capital; outstanding
amounts as of December 31, 1973 stood at P 48.5 million.
3.        Size.  The average size of DBP's industrial loans since 1947,
made generally to finance local expenditures, is relatively small, P 155,000.
On the other hand, that of foreign guarantees is quite large. Regular
foreign guarantees average US$4.5 million per project 1/. The large average
size of DBP's foreign guarantees is due to the fact that, as the principal
source of industrial finance in the country and as a matter of Government
policy, DBP was called upon to finance a number of projects deemed to be of
national importance, some requiring DBP's financing for an amount as large
as US$100 million equivalent.
4.        Sectoral distribution.  As can be seen from Appendices 1 and 2, DBP's
assistance has gone to almost all industrial sectors including mining and
1/   As of September 30, 1973, 243 projects had been financed through regular
foreign guarantees.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
utilities. Loan approvals have gone to food manufacturing and rice and corn
industries (24%), public utilities including shipping (17%), textiles (14%),
steel and other metal industries (8%), cement (7%), mining (5%), lumber,
woodwork and furniture manufacturing (4%), and chemicals (3%). DBP's guar-
antees are also well diversified by sectors. Taking all guarantees together
(Annex 5, Appendix 4) food manufacturing accounts for 20% of approvals, with
the balance going to textiles (18%), cement (12%), metal industries (11%),
mining (10%), public utilities (10%), and paper (9%). The bulk of industrial
projects, about 80% by amount, financed by DBP since 1972 is registered
with BOI under either the Investment Incentives Act or the Export Incentives
Act.
5.        Geographic distribution.  The geographic distribution of DBP's
loans (Appendix 1) and guarantees (Appendix 3) reflects the distribution of
Philippine industry:  over 50% of approvals have gone to projects in the
Manila and Luzon areas. In September 1971, DBP's Board of Governors
approved a set of guidelines for a countryside development program (para-
graph 3.03 of text) emphasizing lending for agriculture, cottage industries,
and small- and medium-scale industries in the provinces. This emphasis is
reflected in loan approvals since FY72 (Appendix 1) which show a proportionate
increase in lending outside the Manila and Luzon areas.
6.        Terms of financin&.  Interest rates and other charges are given
in Appendix 4. DBP generally charges an interest rate of 12% 1/ per annum
on larger loans, and 9% per annum on small loans (i.e. below P 5,000). On
its foreign currency guarantees, DBP charges a guarantee fee of 1.5% per
annum on amounts outstanding, plus an initial one-time fee of 1% on the
guaranteed amount which together give DBP an overall fee of approximately
1.6% per annum. Maturities of industrial loans range from one to five years
for working capital loans, and five to 15 years for long-term loans. Repay-
ment terms on foreign credits guaranteed by DBP were previously usually very
short, generally about one year for suppliers' credits covering imported raw
materials and less than five years for imported machinery and equipment. In
1970 the Central Bank established minimum repayment periods on all foreign
credits, ranging from 5 to 12 years. Interest rates charged by the suppliers
now range from preferential rates for tied bilateral credits to 2 points
above the prime rate of the lending country.
7.        Securities investments.  As of June 30, 1973, outstanding securi-
ties investments amounted to P 598.3 million (US$88 million); of these,
P 90.2 million or 15% represented preferred share investments in 18 private
industrial corporations; P 103.9 or 17%, common stock investments in 3 pri-
vate industrial corporations; P 196 million or 33%, stocks of Government-
owned or -controlled corporations; and P 208.2 million or 35%, represented
fixed income debt instruments 1/. Appendix 5 gives data on DBP's equity
1/   DBP's investments in private development banks and rural banks are
not included in these investments and are discussed in paragraph 11
and Annex 6, paragraph 5.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
investments in industrial enterprises. The bulk of DBP's industrial
portfolio of common shares (P 103.9 million) is concentrated in a single
enterprise, Marinduque Mining and Industrial Corporation, in which DBP
has shares amounting to P 81.3 million at cost. Sales by DBP of some
Marinduque shares during FY73 yielded a capital gain of 120%. The preferred
shares portfolio is not as good, with about one-half of the companies making
profits. However, realizable capital gains from the sale of DBP's common
stock portfolio would more than offset possible losses on its preferred
shares portfolio. The dividend yield on DBP's equity portfolio during FY73
was 6%.
Non-industrial Financing
8.        Agricultural Loans.  DBP's agricultural lending has mainly been
to small- and medium-size concerns.  Up to September 30, 1973, agricultural
loans totalling P 1,146 million had been approved for 191,629 projects, re-
presenting an average of about P 5,980 per project. Loans for agriculture
cover a broad spectrum: food crops, principally rice and corn; commercial
crops, principally sugar and coconut; livestock, principally poultry and
hogs; and fisheries. The distribution by amounts has been 39% food crops,
35% commercial crops, 18% livestock and 8%fisheries. Terms of loans range
from one year for production credits, e.g. paddy and fertilizer, to 10 years
for capital investments. Interest rates were 9% and 10% per annum on loans
under P 100,000 and above this amount respectively, but were increased uni-
formedly to 12% per annum in 1970. Collateral requirements are usually
strict.
9.        Real estate loans.  As of September 30, 1973, DBP had approved
48,927 real estate loans totalling P 693 million, or an average size per
loan of P 14,165. Some 50% of approvals had been for large residential
buildings, 25% for commercial buildings including schools and hotels, 12% for
low-cost residential buildings, 8% for hospital buildings, 3% for building
repairs, and 2% for Government buildings and other investments. DBP has in
recent years been stressing lending for low-cost housing projects. In the
last five years hotel financing (38 loans amounting to P 40 million) has
accounted for 28% of real estate lending.
10.       Government Loans.  This category consists of loans made for the
financing of income-producing projects of municipal and provincial govern-
ments, such as markets, slaughterhouses, waterworks, power plants, telephone
systems and transportation projects. As of September 30, 1973 DBP had approved
675 such loans for a total amount of P 172 million. These loans are usually
guaranteed by the local governments, and DBP has a claim on these government's
share of the federal income. As a matter of administrative procedure, the
prior approval of the Finance Secretary is required for the creation and
financing of local government projects.
11.       Private development banks.  DBP's charter entrusted to it the
specific functions of promoting and establishing private development banks
in the provinces and cities. The objective was to bring financing facilities
to small agricultural and industrial enterprises in remote localities. DBP's
financial assistance to private development banks consists of equity



ANNEX 4
Page 4
investments in preferred shares (generally about one-half of share capital)
and rediscounting facilities. As a substantial shareholder, DBP is repre-
sented on the boards of private development banks and has a voice in select-
ing their managers, but otherwise is not directly involved in their manage-
ment. DBP also provides some technical assistance in the form of training
facilities. So far, DBP has established 31 private development banks, made
equity investments in these institutions amounting to P 29 million and
provided them with rediscounting facilities totaling (on a cumulative basis)
P 119 million. As of June 30, 1973 the total outstanding financial
assistance by DBP to private development banks amounted to P 60.4 million
of which P 24.4 million represented investments in preferred shares, P 31.9
million outstanding rediscounting and P 4.2 million savings and time deposits
maintained by DBP in these banks. The private development banks' importance
as a source of finance remains negligible. As of June 30, 1973, their total
assets amounted to P 217 million, with a combined loan portfolio of P 163 mil-
lion. Total lending by private development banks in FY73 amounted to P 57
million, representing an average annual lending amount of P 1.8 million
($0.27 million equivalent) for each institution. Their financing has gone
to agriculture to the extent of 60%, and to industry for about 30%. Although
DBP has been given a special role in fostering and financing private develop-
ment banks, DBP's investment and influence in them is still small and the
volume of business of these institutions remains insignificant. The slow
expansion of private development banks is due partly to the present ceiling
of P 25 million set by DBP's Charter on its total equity investments in
their share capital. This ceiling is expected to be raised to P 50 million
shortly.
12.       Miscellaneous operations. As a key government financial institu-
tion, DBP has also been directed by the Government from time to time to
carry out special operations.   Although some of the equity investments in
Government-owned and controlled corporations are large, the special lending
programs such as loans to typhoon victims and college students represent a
very small proportion of DBP's overall financing activity.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
April 22, 1974



04 000    00000  00 0I0orCnsr 0004400000000004 '0       aZCC 040000-5  0
0 000     0   0CC  COO OCCCCCCOOCC0 CCC  CoC               C OCCOOCCOC                 OCOoCOCo
CC   C00  Ca C 0000  0040  C C          C 04CC CCC 00           00000" -  00
0 COoCCo                                   .CHC000000CC  C                   0-000CC C
C    .0 C OCCOC-CO C C C C   000CC   C C C C C            0 00000  0C0
C CC   CC       -.CC CCCC   CCCC  4CCoOCo C C   C'CCCCC4                                  0
MC   CC  C   0000  0   - CC   CC   C  0   - 0000
C0CCo,C,C,.0  00                           00.         .     CO
0 00      COCO  CoCO  .   CCC   CC                  0       0.-oC  CC              04000  000 ,C. C
- CCC  OC  0 COC.CCC C CCOCCC C .            o-,oC00o                        0.0000
0o0.0C0   00C0CCCC   COOCOIC  C             CCC COCCO 00  0        -00       000- C
0. -   C C C  0 0000 COCCC.0CCC  C          0.0.40.0 C COIC             -00  0--CO  .0
COCCC.OOCOC000.C  C-         CC   C          0      COOIOOCO  - 0000  I..
CCCCCO      -   00CC-C  00C.CCC  C C         CCCCOI4  40-                 0-   0000
0            0CCaCC0C0CC00CCCC0 C    CC    C'C                                     0000 000   0
C000C  CC-V    CO  CCC COCOC  C-CC  C        00   C   .C                0-00  0         0
CO        OCCIICCCCO       C CCC0C-CCC  CC   0                    C
C0
CCC  CCC   C   C   OCCCCOC        C  C
C C CV    0 C  -   V    C C  C   C  .0
000CC - 0        CCC   -       0                    00                0
C  00.,-OC.C  0.                                       CC
CCOCCC0    040.4
O 0000CC    C           000                            C
- C CCCC0CBCCO.C
0 000 V  -       C  C.- C   C
C   C V  C       C 00  C V
C    CO    C    C  0  C.   C    C
CC  0   -     C   0   C    C
Co   0  C    Co      C    C    C
-  0   C                C    C
C  C   0             C.    C  0
C    0  C            C     C
-    C  -            C     C
C C
C    C               0
0                    C
V                    C
V                    C
CO  000COCCOOO0          00       -   - -   - -                                   I2-I
.000000 00000o 0            . - . 0000000
04000000CC 00C0CCo 0 COCOCOC       10o C00000.00000     - *C'C C C CCC o.o400 0    .00
O  -CC  000C000000000.000000000           C 100000000000                      0040000    IC'
It>    0-         --                              :0                    COf          -
00000  0,0   0        0o          00
* 0 , 000000  0000000C4OCooO,0000000 0    , 0 OVOCCO 0000.40           0 ,0        0000
0 , 0000000  00 0-.400COOC 0-004-04.40000000    , .0 -0000-0000000    .0 .00000CC
ICC
00OO0040,0C0040000.0,0,00000C400000.      000000'C440000C 0      C ,0000CC COO.4OOO
00 COoVO  000 000-OC'4CC000.-00                CS .0000000,00,0    0 0          0000000
0404000C000C,040 000C0.4000000000.-0            00400000000      C ,          0.0404000
C-                          -    --          I      0-           Io
0 . 0000o400040o00o40  , 0400000040000   0
- '--4- ,
C .40000,000  000000400000000000,0,00,0 00      0 00 ,000000C000       C ,00CCCCCC000000C
I   io5o. .-o.-,...-..o,                40                            I                          0
-                 ,0               -                                           .           of
.0  00                    0      0    0              0   00   0                    OC           1,
0                          40 -        --     ,     00040,0000         0 OCOCCO COCOCO
C COO 444-'444-004,0, 04044.400               . 0 lC00000040000o                    00000                C
.01   C                                  C        01        000        I   I-
0 .000                000,0040                . 0 0004000,0000    4
4000,040044444440440040440404 C,0    . 0 000000-0,000    I 0 IOOCCO CCCCO(C4000                     5'
I    0  40
C 000400o 4 44000444000040,04-0000              000-00.0,00000            04440.004400000
-                0,0                   -      40[         0.404        010       0
.04,000000444000 040440400-- 000C 4000-Coo  0000    0   C 400  0000  0    -040,00000  00 404 4 40004
I   C0,0C0                         -               H       0o
4 C ,o-0000o.  *40040444,0,,04C44 CCC    , 0 000000004-o    , C .044
--     - -C                     -      IOO0O  OCOOO          21C       0,000
:0 00                     0     40 [4000   400.40f    I   [Z                   lo
0             00
'-4
* 0 40 0   00           0 C 0 00
9             it'       pp  040000   40   , 0 0040000-4000            P V    
* C 4000,000000004000400000  CO000  'o            0 .000000000000    I 0 ,040400000000.-
0 0400 OC - 0400000440400040440040    1   100000 i:- .,    I . 1,00000-0400041
4                      CC
101                       0
00                   0    1   C-CO   000         4 oeO000
000000040         1          .00004                00000000000       00
000004   000               -                           1 o
I   I      -         0                     0
'00 00 00   0000  40    0   00 0      0                000        ICCO  0.0.000,00 0000        0
 IO0C04CC0 0400 *00o 044000,00,0400400 I
[                40
000,000  00  0000,00  0,000    000        0      00000000000    4 0 - 40000 '0,000000    1
0 40 0400000-00  000,000,0000000000000000    4 0 400000000000000        0 100. 40000000,000  000000  00000000000000000    4 0 I 00000,0,0000004  .4 C C CCC 00,000,00    IC;
0    00      00100000    0          00140       to            OC
000,00  00000000040000000000000040       00 004000004000000    I 0 0 CCCCC,0,04C0004C     Co
00000000000400000000000000                C 400000,0000,0,000      1          0000040 C-   Co
40 [0000000.000   00o                00)0       C rOOCO 00000040000      40       004000000
00,0000000000 00040000 000040000404000400000  09 4000004000004000    4   CCCC  o0000000    404
00000000  000000000400000000000000000        0 4000000.40004000     0           00000000
 x;puadQ       5'               rr??s-??:05'-??t'r            jC2CO00O    I  La0 rt.'tptt'pp    4.-Cl
CCC       I 0 000000,0000 0000000400000000000040404000000   0 4-00 004000000400    1 o 00 b.CCCo00000oV



C oonrraioe Iterem.ono of Guarantee 00 oration. 
to Petenhor 31. 19''3
- - --  Goof lone 3%j972   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  -----------                                              -----------Aso  uo~    93--    -          -      A   fDo,hr~.17
oF1sir Foreign    _    CCC & Ci8   /'            Domestic         7. icWylarForIL.           Ar   IC  6 C-B Domei t-I F                                         7_            CCC & CWB              D -ie            7.
I l ecroral Dtsnr nbluroo of4Ap2cooal  2 /
Food manututuring                                           103.0       10.S      102.0    81.1             29.2       28.0          103.1        10.0     145.0    74.4            26.9         25.9          141.3       11.8      154.6    75.3             33.1        28.7
Teoliles                                                    137.8       14.5       18.1    14.4              0.5        0.5          182.9        17.2      41.1    21.1              6.5         5.3          191.2       16.0       41.8    20.4              6.5         5.6
Peter and ptee  p-od.ctt                                    143.8       15.1        -        -               2.0        1.9          110.9        10.4        -       -               -           -            115.1        9.7        -
Co-nt                                                       141.8       14.9        -        -               3.6        3.5           148.2       13.9                                89          3.6          142.1       11.9         -       -              14.1        12.2
Iron, steol and  -er) p-rod-ts                              121.4       12.8        -        -               1.7        1.6          145.4       13,7        -        -              2.           2.            4.4         7.2        -        -               1.7         1.5
M-ing                                                       [00.5       10.6        -        -               -          -             131.9       12.4        --                                  -            134.4        11.3                    -         -
Poblit utilities                                            116.7       12.3        -                       23.7       24.7          121.7        11.4        -       -              15.4        14.8          209.9       17.6        -                       1 18.4      13.3
of aTtic], rhlppng                                       (13.0)      (1.4)       -                       (9.6)      (9.2)         (13.0)      (1.2)       -        -             (9.6)        (9.2)         (13.7)      (1.1)       -        -              (9.6)       (8.')
Hoonlog, honelo, hoopitols, Infran trootoro                  53.0        5.6        _        -              21.8        20.9          53.5         5.0        -       -             21.8         21.0           33.5        4.5         -       -              21.8        18.9
othler                                                       32.1        3.4        7.6      4.5            19.7       18.9         _ 63.5       _6.0         7.)     4.9_          27.2         21.2           60.9      5_s.0      __8. 64    4.3            22 9        19.8
ToI                                                      930.1      100.3      12).7   100.3            194.2      100.0        1,073.7       100.0     194.8   100.0           10.4.0       100.0        1,192.9      100.0      205.2   100.0            115.5       100.0
Gre..d Tortl (P mIillIo  equi-al-nt) 3/                                               7,419                                                                     8,662                                                                     9,622
1(. Apztuoalt ClAssitfed 32,,Oaiuriiten 2/
Medium and land-ten-                                        748.0       78.7      123.7   100.0             19.4       18.6           817.7       77.0      194.9   100.3            25.1        24.1          924.7       17.3      205.2   100.0             22.7        19.7
(hurlt-tarer                                                202.1      -213      ~~~-   --~-~               84t.8      81I.4         245.7        2,3.0q    -,_-       -_            18.9        15 9          268.2       22.5         -       -              92.8       830.3
Total                                                    930.1      100.0      125.7   100.0            10.2      170.0        1,033.7      100.0      194.8   100.0           104.0        100.0        1,192.9      100.0      203.2   100.0            115.5       100.0
Grand total (P million equioalal) 3/                                                 7,419                                                                     8,662                                                                     9,622
III.  Gua-ancee     ua m edi
M,Idian and lang-torn                                       340.9       94.2       24.5   100.0              5.6       16.8          316.1        91.6       28.6   100.9             5.3        13.0          338.2       88.0        12.9   100.0             4.3         8.9
Short-ter                                                    27.9       35.8      __- _   _:_-              27.8      9S3.2            29.7     _8.4          - _                    35.6        87.7           46.1       12.0         -        '             44.2        91.1
ToL.1                                                    351.8      179.0       24.5   100.0             33.4      100.0          345.1       100.0       28.6   100.0           40.9        100.0          384.3      100.3       12.9   100.0             48.5       100.0
Grand Total (P mill-inn eqalvalenu  3/                                                2,661                                                                     2,582                                                                     2,749
S/ Sea Annen 4, paragraph 4 far definitions of rega.lr, CCC and CWB g-oerantee.
Z   Figoros- hoanure  n       oE  ootlarioo.  .  Co--eiiatliouare dlduotnd an the yea-  the r-nceliot   took nis-e.
3/  06.8   01.00
kegionaI Pr-J)ats Oerir.mnt
Anit 3eglonel Offi-e
Ferirary 7, 1974



DBUENLGPMENT BAN9 ODft 71EFHiLIPPfNF.S
Geographical Distribution. Maturity              aid Curre    tssre
of DBn'sRegular F_rejin Currency Guarantees Outstanding
als of December 31, 1973
($ million)
Zeogra2hical Location                  Asount          %           Schedule of Installment.                    A..ount           7.              Outstanding ESd  ure                   Amount 1/             %
Manila snd Suburbs                      54.33        14.1          Up to December 31, 1973                      37.96           9.9              US Dollars                             208.47               54.3
Ilocos and Mount Province                3.50         0.7          January to Juae 1974                         46.32          12.0
Central Lusun                           47.00        12.2          Fiscal Year 1974-1975                        62.44          16.3              Deutsche Marks                          85.75               22.3
Southern Luzon and Island              117.26        30.5          Fiscal Year 1975-1976                        51.19          13.3
Western Visaya3                          9.55         2.5          Fiscal Year 1976-1977                        46.33          12.1              Japanese Yen                             36.50               9.5
Eastern fisasyas                        24.55         6.4          Fiscal Year 1977-1978                        40.21          10.5
Northern Mindanao                      127.45        33.2          Fiscal Year 1978-1979                        31.39           8.2              French Franc                             36.18               9.4
Southern Mindanao                       14.45         3.8          Fiscal Year 1979-1980                        23.42           6.1
397.09       103.4           After 1980                                   23.23           6.0              British Pound                           15.48               4.0
of which CCC and ZWB credits           12.85          3.4          Net not included in schedule                 2t.75           5 6
Swiss and Belgian Franc                  1.86               0.5
Regular Foreign Currency                                           Regular Foreign Currency                                                      Regular Foreign Currency
Guarantees Outstaiding             384.24        100.0              Guarantees Outstanding                  384.24         100.0                 Guarantees Outstanding               384.24             100.0
1/ Amounts shown are in US$ equivalents.        Conversion rates used are:   DM 2.45   - $1.00                 SF 3.0012 - $1.00
FF 4.1493 - $1.00               h 0.3867  = $1.00
lF 35.71  = $1.00              Y 365.625 = $1.00
Regi0nal Projects Deparcment
Asia legiunal Otfice
February 7, 1974



Annex 4
Appendix 4
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF 'HE PHILIPPINIES
Interest Rates And Other Charges as of December 31, 1973
I. LOPNS:
Irterest Rate:                                (a)  Gererally; 12% per anrum.
(b)  Loans below P5,000; 9% per !nnum.
(c)  Loars to private development banks; 8% per arnum.
(d)  Other special lopns; 6-10% per arnum.
Commitmtent Charge:                                 of 1% per month on unused part of the loan approved
after a prescribed period (usually 90 days after first release).
Peralty Charge:                               (a)  0-2% per annum over basic interest rate on amounts overdue.
(b)  4% per arnum on amortization which remains unpaid after 90 days.
(c) 10%, penalty charge on total armortization past due on restructured
accounts past due effective 30 days after violation of con-
ditions on restructuring.
(d)  10% on total obligatiorn for foreclosed accounts.
II. GUIARANTEES:
Issu2rce Fee:                                      1% upon issuance of the letter of guarantee and/or renewals
thereof.
Commitmert Charge:                                 1% yearly after due date of issuance of letter of guarantee
on unavailed portion.
Rate on Availed Portion:                           1'-% per anrum on principal outstanding and interest due thereon;
payable quarterly.
Penalty Charges:                              (a)  1% per month or. guraratee fees not pnid on due dates.
(b)  Advances on guarantees carry interest of 1% per month or 12%
per annum (plus !-% service fee or the amount so advanced ard
1/3% per month penalty on amount of advarces on guarartees
outstarding).
II.  PREFERR.HD SHARWS (Interest)                      (a) Gererally, 12% per anrum.
(t)  Private development banks: 1% per arnum durirn  the first five
years; 2% per annual for the next five years; 3% per arrum
thereafter- additional subscriptions are at 3% per anrum.
IV. APPLICATION FEES
Loans and Guarantees:                              Rates increase gradually from P15 for smsller loans to about
0.10% of 2mount of applications for loans over P1 million.
Private Developmert Banks:                    (a)  V. for additional aubscription to capital stock.
(b)  P250 to b$ of amount of application for rediscount'r;g.
Region.-3 Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 4
Appendix 5
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Summary of Equity Investments in Industrial Companies
as of June 30, 1973
(P million)
Preferred Shares            Common Shares
Nlumber     Amount         Number      Amount
A. Acquisitioro
Direct investments                        19          143.4            1         128.7
Converted from loans                      12           63.8            2          21-3
Total acquisition                      31          207.2            3         150.0
Less:  Redemptiors or sales to owners                  42.0                       26.9
Conversion of preferred shares
to loans                                     53, 7
Conversior. of preferred shares
to bonds                                    21.3
Sales of commor. stock                             -                       19.2
Outstanding Portfolio                   18          90.2            3         103.9
B. Sectoral Distribution
Car and appliance assembly                  1           8.0                          -
Cemert plarts                              5           69.3            1          20.3
Chemical products                          3            5.6                          -
3lectric utility industry                   -             -            1            1.0
Ferti lizer plants                          2           3.0                   -
Flour Irdlls                                2           9.2            -              -
Food manufacturing                          2           1.>            -             -
Lumber industry                             1           1.0            -             -
Mining and quarrying                        1           5.o            1         128.7
Pap.er prodrcts                             2           6.0            -              -
Steel mills                                 3          11.9
Textile mills                               7          62.7
Sugar certral mills                         2          24.0
Total Acquisition                       31          207.2           3          lo0.0
C.  Condition of portfolio 1/
Firms doing well anld paying dividends      7          3E.9o           1           81.3
Firms temporarily in difficulties or
starting operations                     5           15.9            2          22.6
Distressed accounts pnying dividends       2           16.4            -              -
Distressed accounts rot paying dividends  4            19.0            -
Outstanding Portfolio                   18           90.2            3         103.9
1/ At cost.  :4arket valuc is not available sirce a substantial porti3n of these
ir,vestmerts are in securities for which there are no established m-rkets.
Regional Projects Department
Asi-a Regionrl C - ce
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 5
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
FINANCIAL RECORD AND POSITION
General
1.        In spite of DBP's generally good standards of accounting and
bookkeeping, it is difficult at this time to precisely establish DBP's
financial condition. This is due in part to the complexity of DBP's
overall operations, but mainly to the absence of a detailed examination
of DBP's large portfolio (paragraph 11)!. As imposed by DBP's Charter,
DBP's accounts are audited by Government auditors whose reports, although
thorough in some respects, are not prepared in a form and detail enabling
a judgment on some essential aspects of DBP's financial condition, in
particular on the condition of DBP's large and diversified portfolio of
1 oans and guarantees or the adequacy of existing provisions for doubtful
accounts (paragraph 11).
(.apital Structure
2.        Balance sheets from FY70 to December 31, 1973, are shown in
Appendix 1. The balance sheet as of the latter date is summarized below:
Assets             (P million)   Liabilities and Equity             (P million)
Cash and due from                Short-term liabilities /c                702
banks                  90      Long-term liabilities                 2,128
Investments in                   Other liabilities                       200
securities /a         775      Trust funds                              135
Loans /b              3,560      Capital and surplus                    1,921
Fixed assets and
other assets          526      Total Liabilities and Equity          5,086
Trust funds             135
Contingent Liabilities
Total Assets          5,086         (Outstanding Guarantees)            2,749
Total Liabilities and Equity
Including Contingent Liabilities  7,835
-a   Including share investments in private development banks (P 24.5 million).
/b   Of this amnount P 1,158 million represent advances on guarantees
(paragraph 8), and P 177 million represents miscellaneous investments
such as advances to the Manila Terminal Food Market sales contracts
receivable, etc.
/c   Includes all time and savings deposits.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
One noteworthy feature of DBP's financial structure is the magnitude of
outstanding guarantees which, at December 31, 1973, was P 2.7 billion,
representing a ratio of 0.52:1 to total assets.
3.        DBP's capital structure improved considerably in 1973, with an
increase in its paid-in share capital from P 397 million to P 1,713 million
following the conversion into share capital of an amount of p 922 million
representing DBP's obligations to the Central Bank, and of P 351 million
representing export tax receipts previously held by DBP. As of December 31,
1973, the total debt/equity ratio was 2.9:1 (counting contingent liabilities
as debt). The debt/equity limit under the DBP Charter is 10:1.
Earnings Record
4.        Income statements from FY70 through December 31, 1973 are given
in Appendix 2. During FY73, net income rose by 113% to p 40.7 million from
P 19.1 million in FY72. This was due to a 17% increase in income from
loans, a result of a higher rate of disbursements and to capital gains from
share sales. The table below summarizes DBP's income relative to average
total assets:
FY71          FY72           FY73
------------- -  %---------------
Income:  Income from loans                5.2            4.9            4.9
Other income                     2.2            2.3            2.5
Gross income DBP proper          7.4            7.2            7.4
Net income Trust Funds           0.2            0.2            0.2
Expenses:    Administrative               2.0            1.7            1.5
Financial                   4.8            5.0            5.0
Operating expenses          6.8            6.7            6.5
Profit before tax                         0.8            0.7            1.1
As shown above, DBP's profitability has improved recently, although it has
not yet recovered to its level prior to FY71, before DBP experienced
financial problems (paragraph 8). Profit before taxes as a percentage
of average total assets reached 1.1 during FY73 compared to 0.8 in FY71,
and 1.6 in FY70 although return on average equity went down from 3.7% in
FY71 and FY72 (5.9% in FY70) to 3.4% in FY73. This was due to the large
increase in paid-in capital (paragraph 3) during FY73. The reduction
in administrative expenses from 2% of average total assets in FY71 to
1.5% in FY73, accounting for DBP's improved profitability, was not only
due to reduction of surplus staff, but also to better cost controls.
Despite the recent improvement, DBP's profitability continues to be low.
This reflects the relatively low average spread of about 2% DBP gets on its
lending operations.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Liquidity
5.        DBP has experienced severe liquidity problems in recent years.
Cash outflows exceeded inflows by P 69 million in FY70, by P 43 million
in FY71, and by P 26 million in FY72. The negative cash flow resulted
mainly from defaults by clients to which DBP had made foreign guarantees.
Advances on guarantees (i.e. guarantees in default converted into advances;
see paragraph 8) accounted for 25%, 45% and 28%, respectively, of total
cash outflows during FY70, FY71 and FY72. During FY73, the situation
slightly improved. Cash inflows exceeded outflows by P 19 million, though
partly because of new borrowings. The proportion of advances on guarantees
to cash outflows also improved to 23%. Taking advances on guarantees into
a ccount, the debt service cover in FY73, although better than in the two
previous years, was still negative at about 0.9:1.
Foreign_Exchan Rsk
6.        DBP passes on to its clients the foreign exchange risk on its
foreign guarantees. The Government assumes the exchange risk on certain
foreign loans, such as the IBRD agricultural loans, which were obtained
by the Government and re-lent to DBP. The exchange risk on foreign borrow-
ings obtained directly by DBP is assumed by DBP. On some of these direct
foreign borrowings, DBP protected itself against the risk by buying forward
foreign exchange coverage, from the Central Bank. On its direct foreign
borrowings which did not have this forward coverage, DBP claims it is en-
titled to compensation by the Central Bank for possible foreign exchange
losses, under Section 83 of Republic Act 265. It is, however, unclear to
what extent DBP's losses (if any) would be effectively compensated. To date,
DBP has received compensation from the Central Bank once, in 1970, for
P 44 million, based on DBP's net foreign exchange position 1/ at the time
of the peso devaluation on February 20, 1970. It is not clear whether
DBP has sustained, or stands to sustain, other losses on its outstanding
direct foreign borrowings. This adds another uncertain element to DBP's
financial condition.
Condition of Portfolio 2/
7.        Loans.  Appendix 3 gives particulars of loans in arrears.  As of
June 30, 1973, 54,227 accounts (out of 114,320) were in arrears for over
a year. The total principal outstanding of loans in arrears amounted to
P 1.3 billion, or 54% of the outstanding loan portfolio. Regarding
industrial loans 4,771 accounts (out of 5661) with principal outstanding
amounting to P 800.7 million, or 54% of the industrial loan portfolio,
were in arrears for over a year. The following table gives the situation
since FY72.
1/   Excluding foreign borrowings for which hBP had forward exchange cover
from the Central Bank, and those on which the foreign exchange risk
was passed on by DBP to its clients.
2/   The condition of DBP's industrial equity investment portfolio is
discussed in paragraph 7 of Annex 4.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
Industrial Accounts         All Accounts
FY72            FY73    FY72             FY73
--------------------- %----------------- ---
Number of accounts in
arrears/Total number
of accounts                    86              84      49               47
Principal and interest
in arrears/Outstanding
portfolio                      23              22      22                24
Principal outstanding of
loans in arrears/Out-
standing portfolio             56              54      54                54
As shown above, there has been a marginal improvement during FY73 in the
performance of industrial accounts, although overall arrears remain serious.
DBP's management has recently taken several steps to remedy this situation,
by tightening up follow-up and debt collection work especially by expanding
the use of DBP's electronic data processing system for monitoring clients'
accounts, and by putting the pressure on clients in arrears through other
Government agencies such as the Central Bank and BOI.
8.        Guarantees.  When a client guaranteed by DBP defaults on an
installment falling due, DBP has to make good on its guarantee by repaying
the foreign creditor. DBP then converts the amount it has had to pay into
an "advance on guarantee" which theoretically is due by the client to DBP
on demand. Amounts called advances on guarantees, in the table below,
therefore represent defaults on DBP's guarantees:
July 1 to
Through                             December 31
FY70     FY71    FY72    FY73         1973         Total
---------------------(P million)----------------------
(a) Guarantees
falling due     n.a.    1,032.2  539.9    533.1         258.4        n.a.
(b) Advances on
guarantees       353.2     667.6  424.1    442.9        157.3      2,045.1
(b) as % of (a)       n.a.      65%      79%      83%        61%          n.a.
Less: Repaid to
DBP by clients      121.9      170.3  109.5    134.0         31.2       566.9
Less: Converted
into long-term
loans                17.7       20.8   85.7    161.4         34.4       320.0
Advances outstanding
at end of period   213.6       690.1  919.1  1,066.6    1,158.3         n.a.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
As this table indicates, the proportion of defaults by DBP's guaranteed
clients has been and remains very high. There are several reasons: first,
DBP's appraisal work prior to 1970 was weak; secondly, the BOI, which has
been screening industrial projects in its approval process, did not begin
to operate in earnest until 1969; thirdly, since there was virtually no
Government control or restrictions on foreign credits until 1970, many
foreign credits guaranteed by DBP prior to that year had maturities too
short, which made timely repayments by Philippine borrowers difficult.
Moreover, some foreign creditors invoked "economic disorders" in the
Philippines in early 1970 as a reason to demand immediate repayment of
many loans guaranteed by DBP not otherwise due. Lastly, the peso devalua-
tion in February 1970 increased the debt service burden on DBP's guaranteed
clients by over 60%, an increase many of them could not meet.
9.        Arrears relating to DBP's guarantees, although remaining bad, have
improved during the first half of FY74, when defaults on guarantees falling
due were 61%, compared with a level of around 80% during the previous two
years (see table in paragraph 8). There are also reasons to expect the
repayment record of DBP's guaranteed clients to improve further, particularly
if the Philippine economy continues to perform satisfactorily as it did in
the recent past, since the main shortcomings accounting for the unsatisfactory
situation in the past, noted in paragraph 8, have now been, or are being,
remedied. The BOI is now screening out industrial projects it judges to be
economically or financially unviable. The Central Bank has imposed strict
restrictions on foreign suppliers' credits. Some industrial sectors account-
ing heavily for DBP's advances on guarantees (Appendix 4), such as metals
(37%) and cement (22%), which experienced difficulties in recent years, are
now doing well. Also, maturities falling due on DBP's guarantees have been
declining, and will average about US$50 million annually (Annex 4, Appendix 3)
during the period from 1975 to 1977, compared with US$106 million annually
in the last three years. More importantly, DBP's appraisal work has improved
and is now adequate and DBP's present management has achieved some success
in putting DBP's operations on a more businesslike basis.
10.       Because of the same factors as those noted in the preceding
paragraph, particularly the improvement in DBP's appraisal standards and
managerial capability, arrears on DBP's loans are also expected to decline.
It is too early to evaluate the repayment performance of industrial clients
to whom DBP has made loans or foreign currency guarantees after 1970 (i.e.
under DBP's present management), since these loans/guarantees generally have
a grace period of three years and consequently have not yet fallen due.
DBP's management, however, expects repayments on these loans/guarantees
made after 1970 to be satisfactory.
11.       It is not possible to estimate DBP's likely losses on its loans
and guarantees in arrears, in the absence of the detailed examination of
DBP's portfolio referred to in paragraph 1; nor has DBP attempted to make
uch an estimate. Existing provisions for doubtful accounts, amounting to
P 14 million, appear quite inadequate in relation to the total arrears
on loans and guarantees amounting to P 1.6 billion. DBP's management has
increased from FY74 the annual amount to be charged as provisions for



ANNEX 5
Page 6
possible losses from P 1.2 million to P 5 million, which still appears
low. DBP's balance sheet as of December 31, 1973 shows an amount of
P 260 million under "Acquired Assets and Litigation Accounts". This
category consists of foreclosed accounts for which the collateral has been
taken over by DBP, for an amount of P 175 million, and of loan accounts
for which legal action is being taken, representing P 85 million. No
estimate of the market value of the collaterals taken over by DBP is
available. In any case, DBP is required under a recent presidential
decree to transfer these collaterals relating to "acquired assets" to
the Agrarian Reform Fund. The terms (i.e. prices) of the transfer have
not yet been determined, but DBP expects to receive adequate compensation.
Financial Position
12.       Notwithstanding recent improvements in DBP's capital structure
(paragraph 3), profitability (paragraph 4), liquidity (paragraph 5), and
the condition of the portfolio (paragraphs 7 and 9), DBP's present overall
financial position is still weak, in light mainly of the large volume of
arrears in its portfolio. As already noted, a precise assessment of DBP's
true financial condition is difficult at this time, in view of uncertainties
relating to DBP's possible losses on loans and guarantees in arrears (para-
graph 11), possible foreign exchange losses on DBP's direct foreign borrow-
ings (paragraph 6), and the still undetermined terms of the transfer of DBP's
"acquired assets" (paragraph 11). However, the recent improvements give
cause for optimism. The Government, as in the past (para 3) is expected to
continue to assist DBP if the need arises, in serving its debt and maintain-
ing a desirable volume of financing.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
April 22, 1974



Annex 5
Appendix 1
DEVELOPMENT BAhK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Balance Sheets, June 30, 1970-73 and December 31, 1973
(P '000)
June 30,
1970        1971        1972        1973        December 31, 1973
ASSETS
Cash and due from banks                    155,931      112,635     86,902      105,599             90,071
Investments in securities                  247,935      300,740    44o,602      59e,337            750,470
Agricultural loans                         383,023      383,502    391,944      622,736            648,133
Industrial loans                         1,398,836   1,840,612  2,180,884    2,373,739           2,491,346
Real estate loans                          137,296      182,794    187,129      180,126            159,255
Government and landed estate loans          55,571       55,842     54,448       49,741              52,514
Stocks - PDB                                24,904       24,744     24,959       24,364             24,526
Advr2ces and rediscounts - PDB              23,498       25,627     29,039       31,862             31,575
Miscellaneous irvestments                    6s,oo6      65,123     80,843      117,393             176,782
Bank premises, furniture and fixtures       52,127       53,656     56,765       54,059              58,084
Other resources                              98,772     231,208    324,123      420,626             468,500
Total - Bank Proper                   2,645,899   3,276,483  3,857,638    4,578,582           4,951,256
Total - Trust Furds                     176,246      180,150    186,671      124,299            135,133
Total - Bank Proper ard Trust Funds   2,822,145   3,456,633  4,044,309    4,702,881            5,086,389
LIABILITIES, SPECIAL FUNDS AND CAPITAL
Long-term liabilities:
Foreign                                  160,330      329,686    607,420    1,087,696           1,094,410
Domestic                               1,399,329   1,522,128 1,524,060        895,148           1,034,272
Short-term liabilities:
Foreign                                   29,932        -         19,545       13,517               7,248
Domestic                                 268,525      212,950    258,666       38,907              37,028
Time and saving deposits                   112,360      348,103    336,962      446,465             657,590
Interest and other payables                136,512      169,166    278,962      192,308             150,363
Deferred credits                            24,273       25,860     43,195       43,oo6              48,292
Special funds (stabilization tax)           25,472      165,594    267,888        2,222               1,276
Capital Daid-it                            383,520      390,370    397,035    1,703,051           1,713,229
Surplus and reserves                       105,646      112,626    123,905      156,262             207,548
Total - Bank Proper                   2,6145,899   3,276,483  3,857,638   14,578,582          4,951,256
Total - Trust Funds                     176,246      180,150    186,671      124,299             135,133
Total Bank Proper and Trust Funds     2,822,145   3,456,633  4,o44,309    4,702,881            5,o86,389
CCITINGENT ACCOUNTS
Guarantees outstanding:_
Foreign ($000)                           316,048      333,309    361,856      345,084             384,237
Local (P'OOO)                             29,127       40,937     33,425       40,852              48,463
CCC and CIB credit ($1000)                  114,523      36,770     24,523       28,592              12,851
Total (PROOC equivalent)!/            2,114,781   2,409,443  2,660,802    2,581,849            2,748,662
Total Assets Including Guarantees     4,936,926   5,866,076  6,705,111    7,284,730           7,835,051
RATIOS
Long-term debt/eouity 2/                   6.62:1       8.08:1     9.06:1       2.34:1              2.37:1
Total debt/equity                          8.56:1       9.77:1    10.60:1       2.74:1              2.93:1
Cirrent ratio                               0.35:1      0.20:1     0.21:1       0.h7:1              0.58:1
1/ Exchange rate: P6.8 to US$1 for 1972 and 1973; P6.L for 1970 and 1971.
2/ In these calculations, provisions for doubtful accounts as shown below, were deducted from ecuity:
June 30            December 31
1970    1971    1972    1973  ,   1973
8,581  9,603   10,698  11,741     14,055
Regional Projects Department
Asia legional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 5
Appendix 2
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Income Statements for Years Ended June 30, 1970-73 and Half Year Ended December 31, 1973
(p '000)
Fiscal Years Ended June 30                        July  1 to
December 31,
1970           1971            1972           1973              1973
Earnings
Interest - Agrimcltural Loans           25,109          28,280          29,691         39,101            23,182
Interest - Industrial loans             82,553         115,206         134,887        154,309            77,832
Interest - Real Estate Loans            12,737          17,457          17,874         20,480            14,602
Irterest and Dividends - Private
Development Bank Accounts             1,948           2,138           2,291          2,975             1,472
Interest and Dividends - Securities    18,664           20,376          15,600         21,435            17,083
Income frcm Trust Funds                  1,049           1,119           1,121          1,026               426
Miscellaneous Bank Fees                 33,895          31,128          47,347          45,284           23,144
Other Earnings                          25,518          16,167          19,123         44,726            49,888
Total Earrnings            201,473         231,871        267,934         329,336           207,629
Expenses
Salaries and Employee Benefits          36,691          45,300          45,571         37,285            19,303
Other Administrative Expenses           15,386          16,908          17,513         29,007           *18,748
interest Expenses                      112,984         1)i9,334        186,230        220,074           113,513
Income Tax                              13,186           7,609           6,191          18,044            4,693
178,247        219,151         255,505         294,410           156,257
Net Income                                23,226          12,720          12,429          34,y26           51,372
Appropriated to Increase
Reserve for Contingencies           1,2eO           1,200           1,200          1,200             2,400
Net income - Bank proper           22,026          11,520          11,229         33,726            48,972
Net income - Trust Funds            6,403           7,106           7,824          7,017             3,126
Total Net Income            28,429         18,626          19,053          40,743            52,098
Ratios 1/                                   %               %               %               %                %
Net income/average equity                5.9             3.7             3.7             3.k              5.5
Profit before taxes/average
total assets                          1.6             0.8            0.7             1.1               2.3
dmini ctrative expenses/average
total assets                          2.0             2.0             1.7            1.5               1.5
1/ For half year ended December 31, 1973,ratios have been annualized.
Regirral Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
Februarr 7, 19714



0000    00  10   04  Ho'                                                                    0                         0                             0.
-    -                                                                         00                        100                           00
- 00'000.00001                                            0000,14    [                         -     -&
2                0*           0               0N00r.0.040O1ogO000OV   -                              r                   o      00
00 0                          00 000000 0000000' 0.4.   0.   1    00000000
-    00                  0.              0            0 0000000              a                  ooooo..ooo                          o   o
a                                                                                                                                      .
oo          00                                     0o.oo2:2o                                                                    00
2:          1:0           0000000000000000000000004000.400    00.0                                    20000.                     a         0 o    F
0 0 o'.      .o    000   0'  0000000040400000   0.0000040    0  0                            40400. no.4OO      0   00         0 0'  00
00           0.000         0  0000,.-.   , a0a0a-.-.:02a00    000  oo..0 -  -                      0 10,0.0  0000  0. 00         0         002.2:
0 -        -  00  00   -                                   VOOjOOS                   -                   lo   -             0  0       0
00      0   c                                     00500  000000,000.4   0                  I;       000..o'.4oooO   0                  0  o  000
40 000. 000.-od  00000.0  0.00000  0  0                      00000  '0                  0     0  0  00
0          000            00  0 000000w    0000000000 0000  000000100  .0                           000..0      00  0         -  40        -  000
p      'o0  0 0           0.00.000          000  00000  0 000'00000.000000   0                     000000010                     0.
0      0      0           000               0  00.0.40.         0,000                      -.             00  .4   Jo'
,     I                           0                                              2               -        10
-                    2.00-22. 22  a       a   :               i00              a  22   k
0000  0  00   '-                                           0  0      00                       0
2             2  oo      -   *o                                       k            '           -
0000       00.       -                    0                        lo
000'          o'    0                   00                        0            0.           0
21             2                                  a                                                   a
40
I   I              -                     -             000
0 0 0.                                                                               I   Ioooo.4-oooo00.oo    12:1        -    I            
I 40 000004000000               -  0'000000' 00
00       I                                                                I!
000  0                   00      -     -       0000    0.0'                                                               0           0
I       0000'  0 I    00,00400.0.000040.00000  -  000
000         I    000000oI0I000000040004010400000-'004000004400000400                I a          --            0   0  0       -  -   -         g'          0
I   I                    I2:i     i       I    I                      00
0 0 0                                                                                I   :-:0:0bS'        ,,  010400000140I000          00             0
lxi                               2.
02             0000
I . L.00  0 1,14000 0000404000040410000404000000000   00004            I                  04              1000          .      000            00
I                                         I
KL40000000010 0004
azaa a saa2:                                      0
I          0'    I  00                                            I
0               L..
0000  04 000004000000000000004000404040000400404                   0104
I-40040o04  0 00000000000000000000000000400401000040440    00.0000      0040000000000404    10100  00040040
<*0                                                         <                                                                    go
0                                                                         00  00
00000 00  000000000000000'100                                                                                             0            0 00
0
: b*:         I.,       00t2L:0-'otr04'000-004-o00 00                                               0  000
I   104                                      000
0O0O0000              100fl 00                            0  00
0  000400000  00            00                         0000
0  00'00 000000000004000000004000004000000000000040000                 I                  0       S       00040
*  ..                                                             0         10      0000
0  00000400I00  00000000000000000000400400400404000000                 I    040000000400000     101  0104000001  0
I    00000000400.0       10100
K
12.
I                                                  100000    01 00000040000  0         0   0  0000  00 00
          I        I::                               I       00.  00 000000040000000  I 0j4004000400j 00
a                       .
I   10000    000   0    10010100  00 04
04           001                                                           I000000000004000        0 101000400000100  I
0      0000100        00        004             04       -     100       401000000400000440     l011000000I.OIONOI             I
00 0000001  40        04000000  040  0000 00  040000   000    '0.00
0004000000   0000000000000000000000004000000000000000000       1000
0000
:0'                                                             21
Io                       00      00
:010    I    00000.00  001  00   ..  2:    0       a           22:1
1:0.04     '0
0.4    I 00000000400000   00   04000004010000
04000  04 0  000400000000040000000000040001.440000        0   . 00 040000400000040         00400000404001  0
 L. .          b                00             00
00040  0000,0400004400000400 00004004000000000000000                                                                      0
2:      0   00           00    Ic                       00       0
2: oo.oo2:I 2:         00 2:
4000004000000040    101000000-010'                    2
I            I   I 000000040000000040000000000000040000000040 000 000 0.00    0  040400000400400          0 2:tos...2:I2:  0'0   000
U                   10,
I.. 4"'i10fl0.. 0
100000000    0    10040.00               04100   0
00000000004000 I 0 I 0010000000010 040
I' I. I.         I'           000



D1EEICR0741T BANK OF TIIE PHILTPPINES
Sec;torai Compori son of Outst-  ding Defaults on Guarantees,
GiT7rmtees Approved, ard Guirartees Outstsndirg  as of June 30, 1973
(P million)
Advances on Guarantees 1/                                       All Guarantees
1To. of                 Outstqrdirg l/                 Amounts 2/                 Outst?rdno'
Accourts         %        Amounts             %         Approved         %           Amounts          %
Industrial
Food 3/                                      40           9.4          194.4         18.3          1,731.7      20.0             472.9        18.3
Textile                                      33           7.7           52.8          4.9          1,530.4      17.7              254.3        9.8
Metal                                       116          27.2          389.2         36.5            991.0      11.4              210.8        8.2
Cement                                       82          19.2          231.4         21.7          1,016.7      11.7              518.9       20.1
Lumber and wood products                      4           0.9            0.6          0.1             97.9       1.1               20.4        0.8
Paper and paper products                     28           6.6            7.5          0.7            754.1       8.7             436.4        16.9
Chemicals                                     1           0.2            0.1            -             78.7       0.9               36.7        1.4
Public utilities                             72          16.9          101.2          9.4            843.0       9.7              395.9       15.3
Mining                                        -             -              -            -            896.9      10.4               44.2        1.7
Others                                       44          10.3           52.1          4.9            350.3       4.1               67.6        2.6
Sub-total                                420         98.4        1,029.3          96.5          8,290.7      95.7           2,458.1       95.2
Real Estate                                      7           1.6           37.6          3.5            371.3       4.3              123.8        4.8
Total                                    427        100.0        1,066.9         100.0          8,662.0    100.0            2,581.9      100.0
1/  As of June 30, 1973, of cumulative advances (defaults, see paragraph '8  -for definition) on guarantees amounting to Pl,888
million, P536 million has been repaid and P286 million converted into long-term loans.  Thus, outstanding advances on guarantees
total P1,067 million.
2/ Cumulative approvals (foreign, CCC & CWB, and domestic) net of cancellations through June 30, 1973.
3/ Includes agricultural financing, which accounts for about 4% of advances on guarantees and 3% of total approvals.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office                                                                                                                              >
February 7, 1974
M. 



ANNEX 6
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Examination of the Arrears of DBP's Medium- and Large-Scale Industrial Accounts
1.        DBP undertakes to continue and intensify its comprehensive and
individual examination of medium and large industrial accounts in arrears.
2.        The purpose of such an examination is to:
(a) identify the reasons which caused an account to fall into
arrears;
(b) determine the borrower's repayment capacity, on the basis
of which DBP's managerent takes appropriate decisions on
further measures (including legal action) for collection,
rescheduling or restructuring of the account; and
(c) determine the appropriate level of provisions to be made
for doubtful accounts.
3.        DBP undertakes to:  (a) submit to the Bank the internal operating
guidelines issued so far to reduce the amount of arrearages, outlining the
specific measures that were to be taken, and the actions that havre been
taken so far; and (b) outline a specific program for reducing arrears
further.
4.        This program will review at least 30 accounts quarterly.  For
each account, an individual sheet will be prepared giving, inter alia,
the following information:
(a) name of borrower; line of business; amounts originally
approved and disbursed; original amortization schedule;
previous reschedulings (if any) and details thereof;
past repayments with breakdown into principal and interest;
amount outstanding (principal and interest);
(b) reasons for past arrears;
(c) assessment of borrower's current and prospective repayment
capacity, with staff recommendation on further action (i.e.
to maintain and enforce existing repayment schedule; legal
action; rescheduling or restructuring of the account); and
(d) management's decision on further action.
5.        The individual reviews described in paragraph 4 will be summarized
quarterly into a condensed sheet to be submitted to the Bank.






ANNEX 7
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
SOURCES OF CAPITAL
1.        The Charter and related subsequent laws provided the following
principal sources for DBP's financial resources: (a) capital stock and
surplus, (b) bonds, debentures, securities and other obligations, (c)
investment in DBP's bonds of 25% of the investible funds of two Govern-
ment financial institutions, GSIS and SSS, (d) DBP's share of the Export
(Stabilization) Tax levied from July 1970, (e) time and savings deposits,
(f) various trust funds administered by DBP on behalf of Government insti-
tutions, and (g) foreign borrowings, most of which are guaranteed by the
Government or obtained by the Government and relent to DBP. DBP's
resource position is suDnuarized in Appendix 1 and the main categories de-
scribed in the following paragraphs.
2.        Capital and surplus.  An amendment to the Charter enacted in
1973 raised DBP's authorized capital from P 2 billion to P 3 billion.
During 1973, the Government also authorized the conversion into DBP's
share capital of P 351 million representing export tax proceeds received
previously by DBP, and P 922 million representing DBP's obligations to the
Central Bank. As of December 31, 1973, DBP's paid-in share capital stood
at P 1.7 billion. The Charter provides for two automatic sources of funds
for paying in DBP's capital: (a) transfer to the capital account of 20%
of DBP's annual net profit, representing dividends on the shares of the
Government, and (b) transfer to DBP of 50% of the (Japanese) war repara-
tions collections, the amounts of which have been modest in the past. 1/
Total paid-in capital of P 1.7 billion and surplus and reserves of
P 207.5 million accounted for 57% of DBP's domestic resources as of
December 31, 1973.
3.        Bonds and notes.  The Charter allows DBP to issue bonds and
debentures to raise funds from the market. DBP has issued two types
of bonds. "Ordinary" bonds have maturities of up to five years and
bear interest at 5-8% per annum. "Progress" bonds have terms of 10 years
at 9% interest per annum. Progress bonds are guaranteed as to principal
and interest by the Government and are convertible into preferred shares
subscribed by DBP in industrial companies, a measure intended to attract
private savings and to broaden the ownership of industrial companies.
DBP's long-term notes are similar to its ordinary bonds, except for a
higher interest rate, 7-10%, and longer maturities, 10 to 20 years.
1/   War reparations amounts will no longer be received by DBP after FY74
since they have allocated to the Agrarian Reform Fund.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Together, bonds and notes outstanding as of December 31, 1973 stood
at P 1.0 billion, the bulk of which, P 630 million, was held by Govern-
ment institutions, mainly SSS and GSIS, and the balance of P 370 million
by private investors. The latter amount represents about 11% of DBP's
total peso resources. DBP's inability so far to mobilize private domestic
funds in greater amounts is attributable mainly to market conditions,
in particular the prevailing interest rate structure, as noted in para-
graph 2.20 of the main report.
4.        Time and savings depsits.  These amounted to P 657.6 million as
of December 31, 1973, and were held mainly by the Government, except for
a small balance (P 66 million or 10%) by private depositors. Government
deposits are conceived of as a convenient means by which the Government
provides DBP with funds, when needed, to meet its financing or debt serv-
icing requirements. Time and savings deposits maturing beyond one year
plus Government deposits considered as more or less permanent amounted to
P 300 million or 9% of total domestic currency resources.
5.        Trust funds.  DBP is responsible for administering, on behalf
of the Government and without financial liability on DBP's part, nine trust
funds totalling P 135 million as of December 31, 1973, including the Postal
Savings Bank Fund, the Rural Bank Trust Fund 1/, etc. These funds are
invested by DBP in accordance with the respective charters of the different
funds. All earnings on investments accrue to the funds, after deduction of
a nominal administration fee for DBP.
6.        Foreign currency resources.  DBP at present has no foreign ex-
change resources available specifically for financing industrial imports,
and despite the convertibility of the Philippine peso, DBP has stopped
lending pesos to finance industrial imports from 1965. Since then, it
has financed industry mainly by guaranteeing foreign suppliers' credits
(Annex 4, paragraph 1). As of December 31, 1973, DBP's outstanding foreign
borrowings amounted to P 1,094 million equivalent ($160 million), the
bulk of which consisted of several foreign credits made to or guaranteed by
the Government and re-lent to DBP for financing specific projects, such as
a KfW loan for shipping projects, a credit from the Canadian Wheat Board
(CWB) for wheat flour imports and another from the U.S. Commodity Credit
Corporation (CCC) for imports of raw cotton and tobacco. Foreign borrow-
ings also include a US dollar loan for US$50 million obtained by DBP with
a Government guarantee from a consortium of 29 foreign banks in 1973; DBP
converted this loan into pesos for general liquidity purposes. In addition
to its outstanding foreign borrowings noted above, DBP has, as of December 31,
1973, an amount of P 512 million (US$76 million) available for financing
specific projects, including three IBRD loans (US$33 million) for rice proc-
essing, livestock and fisheries projects, the balance of the CWB and CCC
1/   DBP nominally holds equity investments in the share capital of Rural
Banks established by the Central Bank, but it does so only on behalf
of the Central Bank,since the latter is legally prohibited from
making share investments. DBP is expected to transfer those invest-
ments to the Agrarian Reform Fund.



ANNEx 7
Page 3
credits mentioned above (US$13 million) and a loan from the Mitsui Bank of
Japan amounting to US$30 million equivalent which is expected to become
effective shortly. Appendix 2 gives details of DBP's foreign borrowings.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
April 22, 1974






Annex 7
EMLOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES                     ADpendix 1
Long Term 3esource Position as of December 31, 1973
Domestic Currency
Paid-in capital                                                         1,713,229
Reserves and surplus                                                      207,548
Subtotal                                                         1,920,777
Bonds and notes                                                         1,006,564
Special loans and funds                                                    27,708
Subtotal                                                         1,034,272
Time and savings deposits 1/                                              300,000
Trust funds                                                               135,135
Subtotal                                                           435,135
Total domestic resources                                         3,390,184
Foreign Currency
Foreign Governments                                                       577,014
Commercial banks                                                         406,991
Foreign currency deposits                                                 110,405
Subtotal                                                         1,094,410
Borrowings not yet drawn upon 2/                                          511,751
Total foreign resources                                          1,606,161
Total resources                                                  4,996,345
Less:  Local currency loans outstarding                                 3,382,822
Equity and securities investments 3/                              512,000
Fixed assets, miscellaneous investiiients, and other 4/           518,759
Trust funds                                                       135,135
Subtotal                                                         4,548,716
Resources available for disbursements                                     447,629
Less:  Loans approved but not disbursed                                   179,294
Resources available for approvals                                         268,335
1/  Time deposits maturing beyond one year plus National Government deposits considered
as more or less permanent.
2/  This amount relates to the undisbursed portion of three IBRD agricultural projects
(P222.4 million), CCC credits (P86.9 million) and a Mitsui, Bank loan (P202.5 million)
expected to become effective in early 1974.
3/  Stocks ir private development banks and long-term investments in securities.
4/  'Other' stands for loans in litigation and acquired assets.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



DEVELOPMENT BANK OF7TNE PdILIPPINES
Long-Teom Fbrein Borrg. as  of Decmsber 31, 1973
tg mizzion equivalent)
Date             Amount           Amount          Amount            Interest
Contracted        Atthorized       Disbursed      Outstanding         Charged                 Maturity                   Remarks
Comnercial Banks
Consortium of Banks I/                                     11/28/72             50.0             50.0            50.0      2% above 6 mos. LIBOR          1975-78      Guaranteed by the Goverpnent;
for general purposes.
Franklin National Bank                                     4/16/73               5.9               5.9             5.3     2% above 6 mos. LIBOR          1973-78      For payment of foreign loan of
client guaranteed by DBP.
Deutsche Bank                                              12/29/69              4.7              4.7              4.2             9 3/4h                 1973-81      Tied credits for relending to
specific projects of Government-
Banque de Paris                                            2/6/70                1.6              1.6              0.5            10 1/4%                 1973-74      controlled corporations.
Foreign currency deposits                                  Various              16.2              16.2            16.2     Generally 2% above 6           1975-78      9 foreign cosnercial banks and
(1972/73)                                                       mos. LIBOR                                 financial institutions.
Mitsui Bank                                                1974 2/              30.0               -               _       1 3/4% above Euro $            1977-87      Guaranteed by the Government;
Subtotal                                                               108.4             78.4            76.2
International Organizations and Foreign Governments
CCC & CWB                                                   1970                182.0             169.2            63.6            6-8%                    1973-76      See para. 6; DBP repayments
are for a period of 3 years al-
though it relends for tarms of
one year.
KfW                                                         7/13/64               16.3             16.3            10.7            3 1/2%                  1973-82      Guaranteed by the Government;
for shipping projects.
US AID                                                      4/18/68                4.9              4.9             3.8            4 1/2%                  1972-88      For a cement project.
US AID                                                      8/31/68                3.5              3.4             3.4            3 1/2%                  1974-94      For rural electrification.
US Exim Bank                                                10/3/68                3.0              3.0             1.8            6%                      1972-77      For imports of industrial capital
goods and breeding stocks,
IBRD 720 Ph 2/                                              2/4/71                14.3              0-5             0-5            7 1/4%                  1975-90      Rice processing and storage.
IBRD 823 PH i/                                              5/25/72                7.5               -               -             7 1/4%                  1979-86      Livestock.
IBRD 891 PH i/                                              5/21/73               11.6               -               -             7 1/4%                  1979-90      Fisheries.
General Telephone and Electric International               12/18/68                4.5              4.5             1.6            8%                      1974-76      Loan from parent compary to sub-
sidiary through DBP. DBP has dis-
Subtotal                                                               247.6            201.8            85.4                                                  continued this type of relending.
Total long-term debt                                                   356.0            280.2           161.6
1/  Consortium of 29 American, European and Japanese Banks; agents are First Chicago Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo.
2/  To become effective in early' 1974.
i/  IBRD loans are lent to the Government and relent (in pesos) to DBP.  Thus the amount disbursed and outstanding relating to the IBRD rice processing and storage loan
(P3.3 million) is shown in DBP's balance sheet as domestic long-term debt.                                                                                                                             0l4
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



ANNEX 8
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
PROSPECTS
General
1.        Prospects for continued industrial growth in the Philippines
over the next few years are good. The recently implemented economic
reforms have laid the basis for a comprehensive developmental effort,
within which medium and large-scale industries are expected to play an
important role in expanding and diversifying exports. The Philippine economy
is expected to achieve a real growth rate of 6-8% per year, with manufactur-
ing output, in real terms, growing at a rate of 7% per year and manufacturing
exports increasing annually by 20% during the next five years.
2.        Forecasting DBP's future operations and finances is difficult
and the results must be taken as very tentative, for the following reasons.
DBP is not yet familiar with long-range forecasting, having operated to
date largely without advance operational/financial planning, except for a
12-month budgetary and resource forecast. The following three-year projections
represent DBP's first attempt at a longer-term forecast of its future operations,
resources and financial situation. Second, it is difficult to foresee the
volume and scope of DBP's future operations, because DBP's actual activities
will be affected not only by decisions of DBP's management, but also by those
of the Government. Nevertheless, this exercise in business and financial
projections, however tentative, will enable DBP's management to start planning
DBP's operations and resources on a more systematic basis.
Business Forecast
3.        Appendix 1 shows the forecast of commitments of loans and guarantees
and loan disbursements for FY74 through FY76. Foreign guarantee commit-
ments based largely on applications and inquiries pending with BOI, are
expected to average about US$150 million in FY74 and FY75, about the same
volume as in the three previous years; this assumes the availability to
DBP of the proposed US$50 million Bank loan for industry and of a proposed
US$20 million Bank loan for inter-island shipping projects which together
would replace a corresponding amount (US$70 million) of DBP's foreign
guarantees. Foreign guarantee commitments are projected to rise signi-
ficantly in FY76, to US$440.6 million, when DBP may help finance three
major projects presently in its pipeline (a primary steel project, a
nickel project and a copper smelter project), which alone will require
DBP's financing for about US$600 million, of which about US$300 million
would be committed in FY76. Commitments for loans and securities invest-
ments for FY74 and the first half of FY75 are largely based on projects DBP
is already considering. Loan commitments are expected to amount to P 296
million in FY74 and to grow annually thereafter by 45%. This large projected
growth rate takes into account the fact that the proposed IBRD industrial
and shipping loans are included as part of DBP's loanable resources whereas,
in the recent past, import financing by DBP has had to be done through



ANNEX 8
Page 2
guarantees. (Without the proposed IBRD loans, loan commitments would grow
by 14% per annum). Securities investments (Appendix 4) are expected to
total P 519.3 million1/ in FY74 (of which about 18% will relate to support
for the Government's agrarian reform program) and are assumed to grow by 5%
per annum thereafter. DBP's projected overall operations (including guarantees)
during the three-year period through FY76 amounting to P 8.1 billion on a
commitment basis would represent about 12% of total investment in the
Philippines, with DBP's industrial financing (P 5.2 billion) representing
about 30% of total industrial financing.
Resource Requirements
4.        As noted elsewhere (Annex 6, paragraph 6), DBP does not have any
resources at present specifically for financing industrial imports. Although
Annex 6, Appendix 1 shows resources available for approvals amounting to
P 268.3 million as of December 31, 1973, the greater part is for specific
projects, such as the three IBRD loans for agricultural projects (amounts
available P 222.4 million). DBP's assistance in financing imports will
continue to be mainly in the form of guarantees. The industrial component
(US$48 million) of the proposed US$50 million IBRD loan will account for 15%
of DBP's projected commitments for industrial projects during FY75 and FY76 2/.
5.        Peso disbursements (loans and equity investments) are forecast
to amount to P 2.6 billion during FY74 through FY76. Some P 1.9 billion
or 73% of this amount will be provided by DBP's borrowings and the balance
from internal cash generation and/or sales and redemptions of securities.
Of the P 1.9 billion which DBP plans to borrow for domestic currency
lending, some P 609 million (US$90 million equivalent) or 34% is expected
to come (through the Government) from foreign sources. DBP expects to
obtain the balance of its resources from domestic borrowings, in the form
of loans and notes, time deposits, and bonds, mainly from the Government
and its agencies. On past experience, DBP should be able to raise these
resources for domestic currency financing.
6.        Projected income statements are shown in Appendix 2.  Net profits
for the projected period are of the order of P 60 million a year, repre-
senting a slightly improved profitability with profit before taxes as
percentage of average total assets averaging 1.6% during the three-year
projected period.
1/   Investments in securities are considered on a disbursement basis.
2/   Excluding the three mining projects mentioned in para 3, which are
not expected to be financed under the proposed loan.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
7.        Projected balance sheets through FY76 are given in Appendix 3.
Total assets, including guarantees, will grow by 15% per annum from
P 7.3 billion in FY73 to P 11.0 billion in FY76, the large growth being
due to the increase in the foreign guarantee portfolio in FY76, when DBP
is expected to finance a number of large projects mentioned in paragraph
6.03. This increase in guarantees will at the same time raise DBP's total
debt/equity ratio from 2.74:1 at June 30, 1973 to 4.07:1 at June 30, 1976,
which would still be well below the 10:1 statutory limit.
8.        Projected cash flow statements through FY76 are shown in Appendix 4.
On the assumption that defaults on guarantees will continue improving from
61% of amounts falling due in the first half of FY74, to 60% during the
second half of FY74, 55% in FY75 and 50% in FY76, and that defaults on new
guarantees (not yet outstanding) will be minimal, DBP's liquidity position
is expected to continue improving through FY76. This assumption appears
reasonable in view of the good economic outlook in the Philippines, of DBP's
recently improved appraisal standards, and in the light of the recent
reduction on defaults by clients to which DBP has issued guarantees (Annex 5
paragraph 9). Based on the assumptions stated above, DBP's debt service
cover is expected to improve from 0.9:1 in FY73 and FY74 to above unity in
FY75 and thereafter.
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
April 22, 1974






Annex 8
ADDendix 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Projected Operations, FY74-76
Actual                Projected
Jul.-Dec.
1973         FY74        FY75        FY76
I.  Loan Commitments (P million)
Industrial                                   47.3          66.3      242.2       337.5
(of which proposed IBRD industrial loan    -              -      (135.2)    (189.2)
Agricultural                                 54.5         169.5      194.9       224.2
Real estate and government loans             30.3          52.3       6C.2        69.2
Private development banks                     7.1           7.7        8.7        10.0
Total                                    139.2        295.8       506.o       640.9
II.  Loan Disbursements (P million)
Industrial                                   57.6          87.0      155.6       322.9
(of which proposed IBRD industrial loan    -               -      (40.6)    (110.8)
Agriculture                                  62.0         169.5      186.4       213.0
Real estate and government loans             24.7          52.3       60.2        69.2
Private development barks                     5.4           7.7         8.7       10.0
Total                                    149.7        316.5       410.9       615.1
IIi. commitments of Guarantees
Foreign ($ million)                         139.6         169.9      125.6       44o.6I/
Domestic (P million)                          6.8          12.9       14.4        16.2
Total (P million equivalent)             956.1      1,168.2       868.5    3,012.3
1/ Includes very large projects for blast furnace, copper and nickel amounting
to about $600 million of which about $300 million are expected to be committed
during FY76.
Re ional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 8
Appendix 2
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Projected Income Statements, FY1974-76
(P million)
Actual                 Projected
FY73       FY74         FY75       FY76
Earnings
Interest on loans                         218.8       248.9       284.0      331.4
Dividends on funds and securities          24.5        40.0        54.1       59.4
Guarantee fees                             40.5        41.9        46.4       67.4
Other earnings                            45.5        67.6         45.9       55.5
Total earnings                        329.3        398.4       430.4      513.7
Expenses
Salaries and other personnel expenses      37.3        43.0        49.4       56.8
Other administrative expenses             29.0         38.0        43.7       50.3
Interest expenses                         220.1       238.2       270.6      306.3
Provisions for contingencies                1.2         5.0         5.0        5.0
Total expenses                        287.6       324.2        368.7      418.4
Net incane before taxes                       41.7        74.2        61.7       95.3
Provision for tax                              8.0        23.5        17.7       29.0
Net income - Bank Proper                      33.7        50.7        44.o       66.3
Net income - Trust Funds                       7.0         7.6         7.6        7.6
Total net income                       40.7         58.3        51.6       73.9
Ratios                                          %           %           %          %
Net income/average equity                   3.4         3.1         2.6        3.6
Profit before taxes/average total assets    1.1         1.7         1.3        1.7
Administrative expenses/average total
assets                                   1.5         1.6         1.7        1.8
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 8
'Appendix 3
DEVELCPH1MBT BAN1K OF TEIE PHILIPPINES
Projected Balance Sheets FY1974-76
(P million)
Actual                            Projected
ms3              F-1974i            F!                 Y1976
Assets
Current assets
Cash and due from banks                               105.6             195.1             196.8             201.3
Receivables                                            62.3              67.1               77.1             85.0
Short-term marketable secarities                      155.7             214.0             461.9             697.3
Sub-total                                       323.6             476.2             735.8             983.6
Investment in securities
Preferred (including PDB)                             114.6              90.2               83.0             75.3
Common                                                299.9             352.7             406.8             476.3
Other                                                  52.5             201.0             261.2             318.7
Sub-total                                      467.0              643.9             751.0             870.3
Long-term loans receivable
Agricultural                                          622.7             711.6              804.8            909.7
Industrial                                          2,373.7           2,431.3           2,411.0           2,462.1
Real estate and other loans                           379.2             405.0              437.3            473.7
Sub-total                                      3,375.6           3,547.9           3,653.1           3,845.5
Fixed assets                                              54.1              57.3               60.4             62.2
Other assets                                             358.3             317.1              318.3            319.9
Total - Bank Proper                            4,578.6           5,042-4            5,518.6          6,081.5
Total - Trust Funds                              124.3             135-1             135.1             135.1
Total - Bank Proper and Trust Funds           4,702.9            5,177.5           5,653.7           6,216.6
liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Deposit liabilities                                   446.5             565.7              665.7            792.6
Due to banks - local                                   38.9              85.8               54.8             31.2
- foreign                                 13.5               -                 -                 -
Interest and other payables                           192.3             236.6              256.3            284.3
Sub-total                                        691.2             888.1              976.8          1,008.1
Medium and long-term liabilities
Foreign loans                                       1,087.7           1,179.2           1,354.7           1,494.0
Local loans                                           895.1             982.7            1,124.2          1,326.2
Sub-total                                       1,982.8           2,161.9            2,478.9          2,820.2
Other liabilities                                         45.2              57.0               66.0             73.0
Equity
Capital                                             1,703.1           1,734.1            1,755.9          1,782.1
Accumulated surplus                                   144.6             185.1              220.3            273.4
Reserve for contingencies                              11.7              16.2               20.7             24.7
1,859.4           1,935.4           1,996.9           2,080.2
Total - Bank Proper                            4,578.6            5,042.4           5,518.6           6,0o1.5
Total - Trust Funds                               124.3             135.1              135.1            135-1
Total - Bank Proper and Trust Funds             4,702.9           5,177.5           5,653.7           6,216.6
Contingent Accounts
Foreign guarantees ($ million)                        373.7             401.7              464.9            702.0
Local guarantees (P million)                           40.9              49.6               48.6             53.3
Total (P million equivalent)                    2,581.8           2,731.6            3,161.3          4,826.9
Total Assets including guarantees               7,284.7           7,909.1            b,blS.0         11,043.5
Ratios                                                 .                    _                  _a
Total debt/equity                                    2.744:1           2.89:1             3.22:1           4.07.1
Current ratio                                        0.47:1            0.54:1             0.75:1           0.89-1
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 8
Appendix 4
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF IHE PHIIIPPINES
Projected Cash Flow Statements, FY 1974-1976
(P million)
Actual                         PrENected
1973            197197975                       1976
Cash balance - Begirning                           86.9            105.6           195.1           196.8
Sources
Net income after tax                            33.7             50.7            44.0            66.3
Items not affecting cash                        48.3             45.2            28.6            38.1
Cash from operations                            82.0             95-9            72.6           104.4
Collecticns on loans                           200.8            281.1           286.7           295.5
Collections on advances on guarantees          128.6            203.5           252.4           300.9
Collections on CCC & CWB & PL-480              428.4            291.2            86.8_
Sub-total                                   757.8            775.8           625.9           596.4
Sale/redemption of securities:
- Collateral preferred shares                47.7              1.0             7.2             7.7
- Treasury bills, notes, etc.               256.1           229.4            180.0           200.0
- Private development banks and others       20.8             53.6             3.1             3.1
Sub-total                                   324.6            284.0           190.3           210.8
Borrowings
Foreign loans and deposits 1/               497.3            248.5           278.5           491.4
Domestic loans, notes, etc.                 107.0            200.7           200.8           230.0
Time and savirgs deposits (net)             109.6            119.2           100.0           126.9
Progress bonds                               14.7             64.9            70.0            85.0
Honds issued for PSB assets                   -               56.o             -               -
Sub-total                                   728.5            689.3           649.3          933.3
Export tax proceeds                              -                8.4             -               -
Reparations accounts                             12.9            12.5            13.0             13.0
Other receipts                                  33.5             45.o            50.0             55.0
Total sources of funds                    1,939.4          1,910.9         1,601.1         1,912.9
Applications
Disbursement on loans 1/                       372.6            316.5           410.9            615.1
Investments                                    543.7            519-3           545.3           565.5
Sub-total                                   916.3            835.8           956.2         1,180.6
Debt service (principal):
Foreign loans and deposits                  111.0             86.5            42.0           143.0
Commodity credits & PL-480                  362.0            375.2           147.8           209.1
Advances on guarantees                      442.8            340.4           233.4           174.1
Progress bonds                               12.2             54.2            36.0            48.o
Other domestic obligations                   45.5            133.2           124.0             88.6
Sub-total                                   973.5            989-5           583.2           662.8
Other miscellaneous disbursements               30.9             48.5           6o.O            65.0
Total application of funds                1,920.7          1,873.8         1,599.4         1,908.4
Change in cash                                  18.7             89.5             1.7             4.5
Cash balance - Ending                          105.6            195.1           196.8           201.3
Debt service coverage                          0.88:1           0.90:1          1.15:1           1.04:1
1/  Of whichproposed IBRD industrial loan            -               -              40.6            110.8
disbursements are:
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974



Annex 9
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
Estimated Dlisbursement Schedule for the Proposed Loan
($ million)
Industrial         Forestry
Component          Component          Total
FY1975 July-September
October-December
January-March                      2.4                0.05              2.45
April-June                         3.6                0.05              3.65
Sub-total                       6.0                0.10              6.10
FY1976  July-September                     3.6                 0.05             3.65
October-December                   3.8                 0.06             3.86
January-March                      4.3                 0.06            14.36
April-June                        _4.7                 0.06            14.76
Sub-total                      16.4                 0.23            16.63
FY1977  July-September                      4.9                0.08             4.5?8
October-December                   4.6                 0.09             4.69
January-March                      4.1                 0.09             4.19
April-June                         3.6                 0.10             3.70
Sub-total                      17.2                 0.36            17.56
FY1978  July-September                     3.1                 0.11             3.21
October-December                   2.5                 0.10             2.60
January-March                      2.0                 0.10             2.10
April-June                         0.8                 0.09             0.89
Sub-total                       8.4                 0.40             8.80
FY1979-81                                    -                 0.91              0.91
Total                          48.0                 2.00            50.00
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
February 7, 1974






ANNEX 10
Page 1
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This Annex appraises the viability of the pilot tree-farming proj-
ect and recommends a Bank loan of $2.0 million to finance about 75% of the
project costs.
ii.       Under the project, sub-loans would be granted by the Development
Bank of the Philippines (DBP) to 1,300 participating smallholders in the
Bislig Bay area of Mindanao to assist them in developing their holdings to
tree crops and for crop or livestock production. Trees would be grown on
an 8-year rotation and sold at prevailing market prices to the Bislig Bay
mill of the Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines (PICOP), under
a marketing contract between PICOP and the smallholder. DBP and PICOP
would provide technical assistance to the smallholder. Smallholders would
plant 10,400 ha of the tree Albizia falcata (falcata) over a seven-year
period and 2,600 ha to crop or livestock production. The typical small-
holder would farm 10 hectares, eight of which would be planted to falcata
over a four-year period, and two for crop and livestock production over
a one-year period. The tree farmer would make a minimum contribution of
25% of sub-project cost. The table below summarizes the project:
PARTICIPATING FARMERS AND AREA PLANTED
(ha)
Year     Sub-loans           1    2     3     4     5       6      .7
1          200           800   400   400   400
2          300                1,200   600   600    600
3          400                      1,600   800    800    800
4          400                            1,600    800    800    800
1,300
Ha planted/yr               800 1,600 2,600 3,400  2,200  1,600    800
Cumulative ha planted      800 2,400 5,000 8,400 10,600 12,200 13,000



ANNEX, 10
Page 2
iii.      A financial rate of return of about 25% would provide adequate
incentive to induce smallholders to participate in the project. There are
estimated 16,000 foche  rojeSt
rea.  By November 1973, 868 tree farms, with a total planted area of
,816 hectares, were established.
iv.       The species falcata is well suited for cultivation by tree
farmers in the project area because of its fast growth, adaptability to
the local conditions, ease in silvidultural handling, and suitability
for rotary peeled veneer, furniture corestock, blockboard and pulp.
v.        Market demand for paper and paperboard is expected to grow
strongly in the Philippines and in Japan, the principal export market.
Demand in the Philippines is expected to be 800,000 tons in 1985, com-
pared with 420,000 tons in 1975; supply is expected to increase more
slowly, from 375,000 tons in 1975 to 420,000 tons in 1985. The supply
gap will be especially acute for newsprint and industrial paper.
vi.       PICOP has been given preferred pioneer industry 1/ status by
the Government and is the sole domestic producer of newsprint and the  3
major supplier of industrial paper.  In 1985, PICOP will need 651,000 m
of roundwood to meet its capacity expansion plans for newsprint and in-
dustrial paper production. PICOP estimates that DBP financed tree-farmers
will supply about 284,000 m3 or 44% of their demand.
vii.      During negotiations, assurances would be sought that:
(a)  DBP reviews the agreement between DBP and PICOP regard-
ing the provision of technical assistance and seedlings
by PICOP to the smallholders (para 22); and agrees that
the minimum stumpage price paid for tree farm pulpwood
by PICOP is renegotiated annually and initially set at
P 15/m3 (para 29);
(b)  the smallholder makes a minimum contribution in own
labor of 25% of sub-project cost (para 19);
(c)  a roster of prospective borrowers in the project area
be compiled (para 10);
1/   Pioneer enterprises receive incentives additional to those available
to a registered BOI project. These additional incentives are:
(a) exemption from all taxes, except income tax (at the rate of 100%
in year one, phasing out to zero by year sixteen); and
(b) tariff protection, at Government discretion, of up to 50%.



ANNEX10
Page 3
(d) DBP employs a forester for project implementation
(para 21); and
(e) PICOP continues its insect prevention and control program
(para 18).
Background
1.        Introduction.  About one-third of the 30 million hectares of
land in the Philippines are presently classified as commercial public
forest. These forests are being reduced at a rate of 200,000 hectares
a year, while reforestation averages only 17,000 hectares a year. About
40% of this destruction is due to shifting cultivators (kaingineros),
illegal logging and accidental fires. On Mindanao, which has the largest
concentration of commercial public forest, the forest resource has been
decreasing by about 90,500 hectares a year, nearly all of which occurs in
the valuable dipterocarp forest.
2.        If this continues and demand increases as forecast, the Philippines
is likely to be a net importer of logs by the year 2000. To offset this
situation, the Government has developed policies aimed at conserving the
forest resource; principal among these are: (i) the phase-out of log
exports, and (ii) an expanded reforestation program.
3.        The phase-out of log exports is taking place over a three-year
period, commencing 1974. The program's objective is to develop large
local wood processing industries and thereby increase foreign exchange
earnings. The phase-out would eliminate also many small, and often
illicit, logging operations which lack the capital to construct process-
ing plants and should, therefore, also ease the rate of forest depletion.
4.        The objectives of the expanded reforestation program are:  (i)
preventing further unnecessary denudation of forest lands, and (ii) plant-
ing open, cut-over and understocked areas.
5.        The Existing Tree Farming Programs.  In the late 1960s, PICOP 1/
launched its Agro-Forestry Development Plan with the objectives of: (i)
ensuring raw material supplies for its mill complex, and (ii) improving
the socio-economic position of smallholders surrounding the company's
concession. Under the plan, a participating farmer devotes 20% of his
landholding to food and livestock production and 80% to fast-growing
pulpwood trees grown on an eight-year rotation. The company provides
1/   PICOP, including the fully-owned subsidiary, the Bislig Bay Lumber Co.
Inc., operates a timber concession in eastern Mindanao of about
190,000 hectares, the largest in the Philippines. It is a fully in-
tegrated utilization complex producing for sale - sawlogs, lumber,
veneer, plywood, blockboard, newsprint, corrugating medium and liner
board.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
tree seedlings (at cost) and technical assistance in exchange for first
rights to the mature pulpwood at the prevailing market price. (For
details see Appendix I.) By November, 1973, 868 tree farms, with a total
planted area of 1,816 hectares, were established, of which 127 applied for
and received loans from DPB, which at PICOP's request began financing small-
holders to develop tree farms in November 1972. To qualify for a loan, a
landowner must have titled possession of at least 10 hectares of land and
a signed marketing agreement with PICOP. TThe amount- s iT 9,000, of which
P 8,000 is to cover the estimated costs of planting 8 hectares to falcata,
_______-DU0 s    U 9 develspj~nnto The planting rate is
1 hectare -p-er year-.- ug-i~i' PFlP provide ciosesupervision and technical
assistance to the smallholder (paras 21 and 22). The loan is for 15 years,
including an 8-year grace period, at 12% per annum.
The Project
6.        The present proposal calls for an expansion of the on-going pilot
tree farm project with the following changes: (i) smallholders would be
required to contribute a minimum of 25% of sub-project cost in own labor;
(ii) smallholders would be eligible who have occupied alienable and dis-
posable land for at least 10 years but who do not have legal title; (iii)
smallholders would be eligible if th    9fpu   a minimum of              and
(iv) there would be no restriction on the annual rate at which lan    y
be developed. The loan terms remain the same.
7.        Tree farms would be sited within a 100 km radius of the PICOP
mill at Bislig in eastern Mindanao - the maximum economic distance for
extending technical assistance, and for transporting timber to the mill
site. Farms would be situated in the provinces of Surigao del Sur,
Agusan, and Davao.
8.        The climate of the area is highly favorable to the growth of
many tree species, including falcata, as there is no dormant period. Mean
annual precipitation over the past ten years has been 190 in. (4830 mm),
with a pronounced maximum from November to January but no severe dry season.
The frequency of tropical cyclones in the project area is estimated at only
1-7%. This is among the lowest in the Philippines.
9.        The topography is gently undulating and generally below 200 meters
elevation. Soils are typically rich clay-loam of limestone origin, with
occasional limestone outcroppings. Except where drainage is limiting or
rock outcrops prevail, the sloping areas are considered suitable for planta-
tions of falcata.
10.       The total alienable and disposable land in the project area is
estimated at 481,000 hectares, with about 160,000 hectares suitable for
tree farming. Reliable estimates of the number of farmers who would qualify
and apply for DBP loans are not available, but preliminary data from the
Bureau of Lands show over 16,000 smallholders with holdings of 5-10 hectares
have applied, or will a       for,-land titles in the project area.  DBP would



ANNEX 10
Page 5
give wide publicity to their loan program and compile a roster of prospec-
tive borrowers in the project area.
11.       Smallholders in the project area now farm land which is often not
suitable for agriculture. Both permanent and shifting cultivation are
practised. Irrigable lowlands of suitable terrain are normally planted
to rice. Sloping areas are considered marginal for bananas, coconuts or
maize and are usually left uncultivated. They are covered by scrub or thin
secondary forest. Smallholders grow few cash crops and consequently their
earnings are very small, probably close to the 1971 average family income
in Northeast Mindanao of P 1,865 ($276). Thus it is unlikely that agri-
cultural cultivation could produce returns as good as those from tree
farming. Since there is land available in Mindanao to satisfy the require-
ments of agriculture and forestry, no overall loss of agricultural benefits
to the economy is expected from the project.
12.       Technical Considerations.  Falcata is indigenous to the Moluccas
and was introduced to the Philippines from Java in about 1940. It is a
large, fast-growing tree with a light, wide-spreading crown, and a clean
bole. Stem form is poor on open-grown trees but can be considerably im-
proved by close planting. Best development is attained on fertile free-
draining clay soils; performance is markedly poorer on water-logged,
compacted, or sandy soils. Response to fertilizers is good. Regeneration
by seed and coppice is easy and profuse. Seeds, which are abundant from
the third year, store well and germinate easily, especially after soaking
in hot water. It is susceptible to wind damage. The wood is soft, light
in both weight and color and is satisfactory for rotary peeled veneer,
furniture corestock, blockboard and pulp. Falcata is grown because it
grows fast, is adaptable to sites, easy to tend and suitable for pulpwood.
13.       The most detailed yield figures available in the country come
from the Nasipit Lumber Company near Butuan City in northeastern Mindanao,
which has falcata plantations up to 15 years old, some of which are in
blocks of 500 hectares. About 70% of the Nasipit stands were on sites
indexes of 26 to 34, the average site being an index 30. 1/ Yield data
are given in Appendix 2. These are the most reliable figures available
and, although they are conservative, they are suggested as the only rea-
sonable basis on which to make yield predictions for this project. Yield
estimates for the present project are based on Nasipit site index 30 yields,
which show a mean annual increment of 25 m3/ha. This would result in a
yield of 200 m3/hectare after eight years.
14.       Individual tree farms would be managed on a sustained yield basis
using area control and an eight-year rotation. Farms would be planted at
any rate a farmer is capable of, but the minimum rate is assumed to be
1/ Site index is defined as the average total height in meters of
dominant and co-dominant trees at 10 years of age.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
2 hectares/year. One-eighth of the total area planted would be harvested
each year. During the first rotation the first cutting would be advanced
to age 7, while some stands would be carried past the rotation age in order
that yields can become uniform in the second and subsequent rotation.
15.       For tree farms planted at rates greater than 2 hectares/year,
annual harvesting of more than 1/8 the total plantation during the first
rotation may be desirable. In such cases, uniform annual harvests (by
area) are delayed until the second and sustained yields are not reached
until the third rotation.
16.       A tree farm would first be clear-cut of indigenous trees 1/ and
all other vegetation by hand, with burning if necessary. Lining out and
digging of holes are done about a week before planting of seedlings provided
by PICOP.  When fertilizers are available, a few ounces of N 2eP  K 2 (usually)
would be worked into the soil 5-15 cm from the base of each seeiilng 2 weeks
and 7 months after planting. One clear weeding and two spot weedings of
about one meter radius would be done during the first year. Further main-
tenance is not foreseen. The total number of man-days required per hectare
through the first rotation is estimated at 110, broken down as follows:
land preparation - 37; lining, digging and planting - 19; replanting - 8;
fertilizer application - 12; and weeding - 34 days,
17.       Seedlings would be raised in PICOP's nurseries.  Seeds can be
obtained locally, and no shortage is likely during the project life. Al-
though some improvement in seed genetic quality (perhaps reflected in
improved form and insect resistance) is likely through provenance testing
and mass selection, a tree improvement program is not considered essential
for this project. PICOP plans to expand from two to six nurseries. The
new nurseries would be located in strategic places throughout the project
area.
18.       Spacing in tree farms would be 4 x 4 m., with commercial thin-
nings likely after four years. No estimates of thinning response are
available. 2/ No severe pest or disease problems have occurred in falcata
plantations in the Philippines. However, scattered defoliation by the
larvae of a certain yellow butterfly has been noted and, considering the
narrow genetic base of Philippine falcata, this could develop into a
problem of economic proportions. DBP should ensure that PICOP continues
research on insect prevention and control. As a protection measure
1/   PICOP will buy pulpable material of merchantible size (10 cm small
end). Possible revenues from this source are, however, small and
highly variable and have been excluded from the financial analysis.
2/   Revenues from commercial thinnings and alterations in residual growth
as a result of thinnings have been excluded from the financial analysis.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
planting should be limited on exposed ridges or slopes where the risk of
wind damage is greatest. Fire risk in the project area is minimal.
19.       Cost Estimates.  The cost of the project comprises all develop-
ment costs except extension costs to be incurred during the first rotation,
i.e., the first eight years. The total estimated cost is approximately
US$2.8 million equivalent. Foreign exchange costs of about US$150,000
are anticipated for fertilizer. The cost estimates are based on PICOP
experience to date, with appropriate modifications as a result of discuss-
ions in the field. The tree farmer as beneficiary would make a contribu-
tion to the cost of the sub-project. It was not possible to estimate the
exact contribution since the resources of the smallholders vary greatly.
However, each smallholder would be required to contribute a minimum of
25% of sub-project cost in own labor. An annual price contingency of a
compounded 12% is considered appropriate in the Philippines, and because
labor is the predominant cost in the project.



1/
Project Cost Estimates (First Rotation)
Pesos '000
Item                Years         1         2        3         4        5         6        7        Total    US$'000
Land Preparation                 118       295      531       767      649       472      236        3068       454
Purchase seedlings 2/             26        65      117      169       143       104       52         676      100
Lining, digging &
planting seedlings              60       150      270       390      330       240      120        1560       231
Replanting                        26        65      117       169      143       104       52        676        100
Fertilizer & application 3/       60       150      270       390      330       240      120        1560       231
Weeding                          110       275      495       715      605       440       220       2860       423
Sub-total                        400      1000     1800      2600     2200      1600      800      10,400      1539
Crop/Livestock loans             200       300      400        -        -         -         -        1300       192
Sub-total                        600     1300      2200     3000      2200     1600       800      11,700     1731
Price contingencies 12% p.a.      72       331      891      1719     1676      1558      968       7215       1068
Total                            672      1631     3091      4719     3876      3158     1768      18,915      2799
1/ All costs are labor inputs, based on a local wage rate of F8.00 a day,
except for cost of seedlings and fertilizer.
2/ Includes allowance for 20 percent failure, i.e., 750 plants/ha.
3/ Cost of fertilizer estimated at P25/hectare/application.
coH
IJ
o H



ANNEX 10
Page 9
20.       Disbursements.  The Bank would reimburse DBP for 100% of the
sub-loan amount. This would be 75% of sub-project cost. Disbursements
would be made against appropriate documentation indicating that DBP has
fully disbursed its loan. Disbursements would be made over seven years,
with the Bank disbursing against a cumulative sub-loan total of $2.0 mil-
lion. Any disbursements in sub-loans required after the seventh year would
be financed by DBP.
Organization and Management
21.       DBP.  The Agricultural Projects Department of DBP will be responsi-
ble for DBP project administration, but sub-loans of less than P 20,000 will
be administered by DBP's branch office in Butuan City. To expedite loan
processing DBP has established a receiving station with one full-time
officer in San Francisco, and a part-time appraiser has been assigned to
Bislig. DBP estimates that at least two full-time appraiser/recruiters
will be needed for the first two years of the project and up to four may
be required by the third year. A receiving station in the south of the
project area is also being considered. DBP has budgeted for a professional
forester to assist in sub-project appraisal and to coordinate with PICOP
on technical matters. The forester would be responsible for safeguarding
the interests of the tree farmers, by: (i) studying the development of
markets competitive with PICOP and, if necessary, organizing marketing
cooperatives; (ii) periodically scaling tree farm harvests to check PICOP
volume estimates at mill site; (iii) appraising sites as to their suitability
for tree farm before loans are approved; and (iv) providing technical ad-
vice.
22.       PICOP.  PICOP maintains a well-organized and well-staffed Agro-
Forestry Department with extension offices throughout the project area
which provides the following types of assistance to tree farmers: (i)
locating and/or acquiring ownership of vacant alienable and disposable
lands; (ii) technical advice in subdividing agro-farms for tree growing
and food crops/livestock production; (iii) technical advice on establish-
ing and managing the tree crop; (iv) animal breeding stock, short courses
and technical advice on raising and marketing food crops and/or livestock;
(v) provision of falcata seedlings payable either on receipt or upon
harvesting without interest; (vi) a marketing contract to purchase
pulpwood at the prevailing market price, with a guaranteed minimum stump-
age price of P 10/m3 (Appendix I). This assistance is specified in an
agreement between PICOP and DPB, which should be reviewed during negotia-
tions.
Marketing
23.       The projected domestic demand for paper + paperboard in the
Philippines by 1985 is estimated at 800,000 tons with a per capita con-
sumption of about 14.4 kg, compared to an estimated 420,000 tons in 1975.
Considering estimates of future paper consumption and projected new
processing capacity, the supply-demand gap for paper and paperboards by
categories is as follows:



ANNEX 10
Page 10
1975                 1980                 1985
Supply Demand Gap Supply Demand Gap Supply Demand Gap
__ ------------------(1,000 MT)------------------------
Newsprint/        84     84    0      84    115   - 31    84    160   - 76
Printings and
Writings        68     80   -12    69    109   - 40    69    152   - 83
Industrial
Paper /a       144    146   - 2   150    201   - 51   178    280   -102
Paperboard        68     76   - 8    75    104   - 29    75    144   - 69
Tissue and
Others          14     34   -20    14      46   - 32    14       64   - 50
TOTAL      375    420   -42   388    575   -183   420    800   -380
/a   Figures do not include PICOP plans for new corrugating and news-
print machines.
Source: Industrial Development Problems and Prospects in the Philippines,
IBRD Report No. 280-PH.
24.       Major markets for pulp and paper are also developing in South-
east Asia. A recent FAO report predicted chemical pulp shortages in Japan
of 2.7 million tons by 1980, and 3.7 million tons by 1985. These shortages,
coupled with the cessation of pulp exports from Taiwan, are expected to
open the South Asian markets to the Philippines.
25.       The Government has granted PICOP a preferred and pioneer industry
status and the company is thus the sole domestic producer of newsprint and
the major supplier of industrial paper. PICOP's expected future require-
ments of falcata are summarized in the following table:



ANNEX 10
Page 11
Projected PICOP Demand for Albizia Falcata
Minimum Roundwood Ha of Plantations
Requirements     Required at Growth
Year              Capacity                   (1,000 m3)         of 25 m3/ha/yr
1974 Current newsprint production
of 73,000 MT/yr                            146                 5,800
1975 Addition of new equipment to
expand newsprint capacity to
84,000 MT/yr                               168                 6,700
1980 New corrugating machine of
100,000 MT/yr capacity (with
A. falcata assumed to constitute
one-half the pulp requirements)            483                19,300
1985 Possible new nesprint machine of
84,000 MT/yr capacity                      651                26,000
26.       Insufficient supplies in 1974 have limited PICOP's consumption of
falcata to onlv 15% of the roundwood requirements for groundwood pulp, or
about 22,000 m a year. PICOP could meet 100% of the roundwood requirements
from falcata if supplies were available. If further supplies of falcata are
available, PICOP expects to increase the kraft proportion in newsprint pro-
duction possibly to a maximum of 70% from the present 35%. This could
double the roundwood requirements for newsprint given above.
27.       The first harvests from project tree farms would not be realized
until 1981 and will yield about 284,000 m3 in 1985. So PICOP cannot rely
on DBP-financed farms alone to supply its anticipated requirements of
falcata. It is assisting 740 tree farmers who do not require bank financ-
ing; has planted 10,700 hectares in the past two years, of which 3,300 hec-
tares is falcata, and over the next ten years is planting another 40,000 hec-
tares of its own concession to varyinig proportions of falcata, Pinus spp.
(mainly P. caribaea var. hondurensis), Eucalyptus deglupta and other species.
Benefits and Economic Justification
28.       Financial Viability of Individual Tree Farms.  Cash flows for
individual tree farms of 5 and 10 hectares are given in Appendix IV for
yields based on Nasipit's site index 30, a stumpage price of P 30/m3, and
a planting rate of 2 hectares per year. The stumpage price is conservative.
PICOP is presently paying P 60/m3 for falcata delivered to millsite. At
current felling, yarding, debarking, loading and hauling costs (Appendix III),
this is equivalent to a stumpage price of P 37/m3 20 kilometers from millsite
and P 27/m3 100 kilometers from millsite. On these assumptions, the financial
rates of return for a 5- and 10-hectare tree farm over 16 years would be 25%.
The individual tree farmer would receive a net income beginning in the eighth
year, and which would average P 440/hectare/year.



ANNEX 10
Page 12
29.       However, if the price assumption is changed to P 10/m3, the
minimum stumpage price guaranteed by PICOP, the financial rates of return
for both a 5- and 10-hectare tree farm over 16 years would be 8%. This
is not an acceptable return because the tree farmer would be unable to
repay the DBP sub-loan. During negotiations, DBP should agree to ensure
that PICOP reviews the minimum stumpage price annually and sets it at a
level which allows the tree farmers a satisfactory rate of return. Ini-
tially, the price should be set at P 15/m3, which would yield a financial
rate of return of about 12%.
30.       Economic Rate of Return.  The project would permit substitution
of locally produced newsprint for imports. The direct benefit comprises
the production for the domestic market valued on the basis of import
prices of newsprint (savings). Data to derive an economic return on
this basis was inadequate. Therefore, the direct benefit was measured
as project production of pulpwood log valued on the basis of alternative
raw materials for newsprint production. The average benefits have been
calculated at an economic price of P 17/m3 of pulpwood log. This gives
an economic rate of return on tree farm plantings of about 14%.
31.       Indirect benefits would include the improved income of project
tree-farmers, the reforestation and utilization of 10,400 hectares of
idle land, the generation of 1.1 million man-days of employment in the
project area over the seven year planting period, and reduced depletion
of forest resources as shifting cultivators are settled.



AnnexlO
Appendix 1
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Extract from Existing Agro-Forestry Farm
Marketing Agreement
(10 ha holding, trees planted at rate of 1 ha/yr)
WHEREAS, the LANDOWNER is the absolute owner of a parcel of land situa-
ted in the Municipality of      Tagbina            , Province of  Surigao
del Sur        , containing an area of              hectares more or less,
covered by T.C.T. No.       __, Land Registry of   3urigao del Sur   
WHEREAS, PICOP is interested in encouraging and promoting the establish-
ment and maintenance of agro-forestry farms within the general vicinity of
its pulp and paper mill in Bislig, Surigao del Sur; and
WHEREAS, the LANDhWNER desires to use and devote his above-described
parcel of land for an agro-forestry farm within the PICOP development
program (see Appendix "All hereof) and under the terms and conditions herein-
after set forth.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual
covenants and stipulations herein stated, the parties hereby agree as
follows:
1. The LANDOWNER shall devote eight (8) hectares of the total area of
his above-described property to pulpwood planting of the Albizzia falcata
species at the rate of one (1) hectare a year, and for that purpose provide
all necessary labor and capital required in connection with the clearing,
preparation, planting, fertilizing, maintenance, improvement, and security
of the pulpwood area for the duration of this Agreement.
2. The LANDOWNER may devote two (2) hectares of the total area of the
aforesaid parcel of land to agricultural pursuits including food crop and
livestock production.
3.  PICOP shall provide the IANDOWNER with tree seedlings of the
Albizzia falcata species at cost, and free technical advisory assistance on
pulpwood planting, maintenance, development and/or management, as well as on
the production, processing and/or marketing of food and other agricultural
crops and livestocks, and in other self-help community development projects.
4. The LANEDOWNER hereby agrees to sell to PICOP and PICOP agrees to buy
the pulpwood oI the IANDOWNER based on such dimensions, specifications and
standards for pulpwood as PICOP may from time to time establish.



AnnexllO0
Appendix 1
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
5. PICOP shall pay for the pulpwood at the price current at the
time of purchase, but which shall in no case be less than:
a.  Ten Pesos (F1O.00) per cubic meter, stumpage price,
with PICOP or its duly authorized agents or con-
tractors doing the harvesting and transporting of
the trees to the millsite; or
b.  Fifteen Pesos (P15.OO) per cubic meter, if the trees
are logged, cut to uniform length of bolts as per
PICOP specifications, debarked and stacked by the
farmer at the roadside indicated by PICOP;
and PROVIDED., that PICOP shall have the right of first refusal to buy at
such higher prices as may be offered by any other buyers, and after first
securing the written refusal of PICOP, the LANDOWNER shall have the right
to sell his pulpwood to such cther buyers offering higher prices.
6. To protect and implement its rights anu to facilitate its cutting,
handling, loading, hauling and other operations pursuant to this Agreement,
PICOP shall have and is hereby granted by the LANDOWNER free access, from
time to time ana at any time, to the land subject hereof and to inspect
the trees and timber thereon.
7. Should the price be based on stumpage in accordance with Section
5 hereof, PICOP shall have, and is hereby granted by the LANDCWNER, all
other rights under the circumstances, including but not limited to, the
right to determine at its sole discretion when, how and what to cut or
harvest from the said land; the right and privilege to bring in, use and
operate thereon, and remove therefrom any and all vehicles, machinery,
tools and equipment it may deem necessary for the purpose; and the right
to cut and remove trees and timber therefrom and otherwise use the surface
thereof in connection therewith.
8. It is understood that any and all rights granted to PICOP under
this Agreement may be freely exercised by PICOP without further prior
consent or agreement of, and without any further compensation or considera-
tion to, LANDOWNER. Any and all suits or actions or causes of action
arising out of PICOP's operations under this Agreement, including without
limitation those for damage to or destruction of trees or timber, as well
as for damage to or destruction of the land or any other improvement there-
on, are hereby waived by the LANDOWNER unless such damage or destruction
is directly attributable to PICOP's fault or gross negligence.
9. The LANDOWNER hereby authorizes PICOP to withhold from the proceeds
of the former's pulpwood sales any and all amounts corresponding to any and
all amounts due on the former's obligation to the Development Bank of the
Philippines, as well as those due to PICOP on any obligation whatsoever.



Annex! 10
Appendix 1
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMIG PROJECT
10.  PICOP hereby agrees to hold in trust any and all amounts withheld
from the LANDOWNER corresponding to any and all amounts due the Development
Bank of the Philippines and undertakes to remit to the latter said amount
or amounts so withheld within a period of thirty (30) days without the
necessity of a formal demand.
11. The LANDOWNER hereby warrants his title to and peaceful and adequate
possession of the land subject hereof, and he hereby obligates himself to
take all necessary actions, including payment of taxes due and compliance
with governmental rules and regulations, to protect and conserve his rights
thereto. PICOP is hereby authorized, without any obligation on its part,
to take any and all such actions for and on behalf and for the account of
the LANDOWNER in the event that LANDOWNER fails, refuses or unreasonably
delays to do so. It is understood that PICOP may at its sole take such
other action as it may deem necessary to protect its own rights hereunder,
including without limitation the registration of this document with the
Register of Deeds as a lien on the land subject hereof, and  with the Bureau.
of Foresti7 in connection with Private Woodland Registration.
12. This Agreement shall take effect from date of signing hereof, shall
be in full force and effect for sixteen (16) calendar years terminating at
the end of the cutting period corresponding to the 16th year, and may be
renewed or extended by mutual agreement of the parties.






Annex 10
Appendix 2
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Yields* by Site Index of Albizia falcata
Nasipit Lumber Co. Plantations (m5/ha)
A e,,e     1-8      2306                       32        34        50
2       22.3     48.o     56.1      64. 8    71h.2    84.3      189.2
3       31.2     67.3     78.6      90.9   lol. o    118.1      265.2
4       39.6     85.6      99.9    1 15.5    132.2    15o.1     337.1
5       147.7   103.0   120.4    139.1   159.3    180.8         4o6.o
6       55.5    119.9   Viho.l   161.9-  185. 4    210.5        472.6
7       63.0    136. it   159.3   184. i    210.8    239. It    537.41
8       70.5    152.t.   18.1    205.8    235.6    267.6    600o7
9       77.8    163.2   196.4    2-27.0    259.9    295.2       662.6
o0      814.9   183.6   2111.5   2147.8   283.7    322.2    723.4
11       91.9    128.8    232.2   268.2    307.2    30-8.9       783.2
12       98.9    213.7   2149.6    288.5'   330.3    375.1     8112.1
13      105.7    228.5   266.9   303.4    353.1    401.0        900.2
a14     112.14   2143.0   283.9    328.1    375.6    12'6.5    957.6
15      119.o    257.14    300.7   31i47.5   397.9   1451.8   1014l.0
*  up to 10 cn top diameter inside barik not including branches, 2 x 3 m initial
t spacing, weeded first and second year, no thinning.






Annex 10
Appendix 3
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Harvesting, Loading and Hauling Costs
PULPWOOD HARVESrING COSTS
Operation       Cost-P/m3
Felling & bucking       6
Yarding                 6
Debarking               1
13/m3
COSTS OF PUJLPWOOD LOADING AND HAULING
PULPWOOD
Loading and
Hauling Rates           PICOP Hauling Subsidy
Distance      Rate       Distance   Rate                         Cost to
in km     P/m /km        in km    p/m3      Subsidy-P         Farmer-i
10-20       0.790          20      15.80        5.80            10.00
21-25       0.660          25      16.50        6.50           10.00
26-30       0.600          30      18.00        8.oo           10.00
31-35       0.552          35      19.32        9.32            10.00
36-4o       0.504          4o      20.16       10.00           10.16
141-45      0.480          45      21.60       10.00            11.60
46-50       o.456          50      22.80       10.00            12.80
51-55       0.432          55      23.76       10.00            13.76
56-60       o.408          60      24.48       10.00            14.48
61-65       0.384          65      24.96       10.00            1h.96
66-70       0.372          70      26.04       10.00            16.04
71-75       0.360          75      27.00       10.00            17.00
76-80       0.348           80     27.84       10.00            17.84
81-85       0.336          85      28.56       10.00           18.56
86-90       0.324          90      29.16       10.00           19.16
91-95       0.312          95      29.64       10.00           19.64
96-100      0.300         100      30.00       10.00            20.00






PHILIPPINES
TREE FARrtING PROJECT
3
Proiected Cash Flow Statement For a 5 Ha Agro-Forestry Fa.m (At Yields for Site Index 30 and Stumpage P30/m
(at current prices)
1      2       3       4      5       6       7       8      9      10        11      12       13       14       15       16       17       18       19       20
Cash Receipts
1.  Bank loan                          1,875   1,500              -  -        -       -           -      -       -        -            -         -        -       -        -       _     _                 _
2,  Sales                                _                         -                      -    2,761  3,087  3,405  3,717   3,717   4,023   4,327  4,626   3,087   3,087    3,087   3,087   3,087
Total                              1,875   1,500        .     -       -       -       -    2,761  -,087  3,405  i,717   3,717   4,023   4,327  4,626   3,087   3,087    3,087   3,087   3,087
Cash Disbursements
3.  Land preparation                      590     590
4.  Purchase of seedlings                 130      130                                                           -         -      -        -
5.  Lining/digging/planting               300      300    - -
6.  Replanting                            130      130
7.  Fertilizing (twice)                   300     300
8.  Weeding (3 times)                     550      550    -        -       -       -      -       138    158    181    208        239      275      316    363       416      478       549      631      725
9.  Singling                                                       -       -      -                        57     65      74       85       97      111    127       145      166       191      219      252
10.  Food crops/livestock                  500       -      -                                        .                     - _ 
rotal                              2,500   2,000    -          -      -       -       -       138    215    246    282        324      372      427    490       561      644       740      850      977
Loan Payments
11. Accumulated interest                    -        -      -       -       --    2,000  Ld5
12.  Principal and interest                 -        -      -                               -                      82.1    821      821      821,    821    821        821       -        -
_-_  _   _  -  -       -    2,000  1,;65      821    821       821      821      821    821       821        -        -
Cash Balance                                  _        _      _        -       -      -       -       623  1,407   2338   2614    2572    2830    3079   3315            2526    2443    2347    2237    2110
(625)   (500)                             _ 
1/ Sales receipts are projected on the basis of present stumpage price.                                                                                                                                    550  0
2/ Loan disbursed over two years because 5 ha tree farmer expected to plant at                                                                                                                               ON
a rate of 2 hectares a year.                                                                                       ~-0.
,.. -



FH7L7ppvFES
TRi- FAYI PROJECT
Proleot.d Cash Flow Stat-ant for a 10 Ha Agro-Poretnr Fara. (at Yields for Site Index 30 aned Stusaso P30/.3
(t csrt90t 2rise)
1          2          3         4            5        6          7          6          9             10          11         12          13          14          15         16          17          18           19          20
COUh booPU
1.  7ok ln                      2250       l00        1500       IS00          _          _          _                                               _
2.    _                            - _    _     _    _                                                       5523      614          6174         681         61           6810        24           4        6174         6174        6174        6174         6174
Tetal                      2250       1500       1500       1500           _        -                   5523       6174         6174        6810        6610          6b10       7434        8046       6174        6174         6174         6174       6174
Cash %Dibsrseot*
3   _.nd prep.-tiso              590        590        590        590          -          -          -          _          _            _           _            _           _           _           _          _
4.  Porohase of seed  iogs       130        130        130        130          -          -                     _          _                                                             _           _
5.  Lniln./digging/plastlSg   300           300        300        300
6   Replanting                   130        130        130        130
7.  FortilIis  (tod-s)           300        300        300        300
I. edis.g (3 tie.)               550        S50        530        550                -          -             275        315          322         370         425          489         562         646        742         853          981       1128         1297
9   Segltng                        -          -          -          -          --                                        100          115         132         152          174         200         230        264          303         348         400         460
10.  Fcd/lrsps/lve-.t-ok         1000      ___ ___- _                                                                                                                    -            - _                                 - _  _                               - 
Total                      3000       2000       2000        2000          -          -                  275        415          437          502         577         663         762          876       1006        1156        1329        1528        1757
Loan Pavpets
1i   Axccu uted int.rest            -          -          -          _             _                  -      3700      2400                          _            _           _           _           _          _            _           _           _           _
12.  PrIncipal *od  .tetrest    _            _          _          _          _          _          _            -                    1642        1642         Di4         1642        1642        1642
Total                          _          _          _             _          _                          3700      2400          1642        1642        1642        1642        1642         162
Cash Dolen.e After loa-  Py-to   -               -                      -                                       1-54      3359          4095         4666        4591        4503        5030        5528       5168         5018        4845        4646        4417
(7_5)  (53001  C500    (SW)   -                       -          -  -                                                 -                     -                                          S
I/  Sales recelpts are projected on boei  of preoent YtU4g   prim.



Annex 10
APPENDIDX 5
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The project's estimated economic rate of return is 14 percent
calculated from data in Table 1 and based on the most probable assumptions
described below.
Assumptions
2.        All costs are at their financial value at the time of appraisal
(January 1974), except for labor. This includes the costs of extension
services of two half-day visits a year per tree farm at P50 per visit. For
rate of return purposes, the opportunity cost of labor is i14/day. Project
benefits have been valued at the economic stumpage price of pulpwood log.
Net benefits without the project are offset by excluding from net project
benefits food crop/livestock production under the loan and income derived
from initial clear-cutting of the tree farm and from commercial thinnings
during the first rotation.
Economic Rate of Return
3.        Based on these assumptions, the return to the economy would be
satisfactory, largely because a valuable product (timber) is obtained
at low cost, while production costs are low since much of the farm labor
will be provided on a self-help basis.
Sensitivity Tests
4.        The project is not very sensitive to either cost increases or
benefit decreases.  Results are summarized below:
Economic Rate of Return
Benefit Decrease                          Cost increase
20%                             Nil       10%      20%
10%                            10.65      9.35      8.25
Nil                            12.15    10.95       9.75
13.55    12.35    11.15
Indirect Benefits
5.        Indirect benefits would include the improved income of project
tree farmers. When a tree farm reaches sustained yield, a tree farmer
will receive net incremental income of P441/ha. a year. The project is



Annex 10
APPENDIX 5
Page 2
expected to generate 1.1 million man-days of emplcyment in the project
area over a 7-year planting period, with prospects of continuance from
replication of the project or other forestry operations. Environmental
improvement will include the reforestation and utilization of 10,400
hectares of idle land not fit for agricultural cultivation and reduced
depletion of forest resources as shifting cultivators are settled.



Annex 10
APPENDIX 5
Page 3
Table 1
PHILIPPINES
TREE FARMING PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Pesos
Net
Anmual           Annual           Annual
YearnCostl      Benefits          Benefits      Discounted at
Year             Costs         Benefits            (costs)      14% to Year 1
1              3,100              -               (3,100)        (3,100)
2              2,100             -               (2,100)         (1,805)
3              2,100              -               (2,100)        (1,586)
4              2,100              -               (2,100)        (1,387)
e                100             _                  (100)           (56)
6                100              -                 (100)           (50)
7                100              -                 (100)           (45)
8                237          3,203               2,966           1,215
9                287          3,581               3,294           1,180
10                 287         3,581                3,294          1,037
11                 287         3,950                3,663          1,010
12                 287         3,95o                3,663             886
13                 287         3,95o                3,663            779
14                 287         4,311               4,024              745
15                 287         4,667               4,380             708
16                 287         3,581               3,294              468
TOTAL     +                 0






DEVELOPMENT BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
AS OF DECEMBER 31,1973
| ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RRRAN   GOVERNO OFRRIR  GOVER:OOR
GFFICE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ EVCRV GFOCE                                                                                            EOG1V C:AICM
I~ T.
URCALdr VEFACOMEURol                            SIFEVIIN  GDVEVRNGBG~RA                                                                                    ORFOIVSO: AERARRNGR                                   RuFeRvORRNG GO ERNVOR ON                                VEs ARROENOIG VERNORRROI
r    LEGALDE ARTMN  |     |GE  LG M   T 9   ARGAL  ME                GhRTA  M  RBCRN                           OFARNAG  eOR     RMe                      CCGRE IRG AEFROMENT                                                             SE BRNCE                                        IRGU|ASc RRA FR. OFFR d IIo MD 
MORIGNS A.    MNSRTG |,,,                      RoGeNERAL 0,3VICS        |4 A|VF
I3E A4n 0Y                2)                IMO Ar010, N            OS)7}1        
EYYGIP  RBSEARVRall           C   rR10   CnZa
NABBER- IS FARFUROERIR OFFER 10 FROFESSSHNAL RYIR INN SAV  REFRR O                  R'  M1dlI HIRSES
T' ;lll    l
IIOTEI-I  rJmsr   G   vI                                                                                                              7  |9dYn                                                                                                                                                                                        S






I BRD 11008
I                                                      T  A 125 30,  12630'                              APRIL 1874
NASIPIT BUTUAN   I                     SURIGAO  DEL SUR   CAGWAIT              pAC7f /C    OCEAN
AGUSAN  DEL NORTE                                                                                -
,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H L I P PPIN ES
-~~~~  ~~~~                                                     ~~~~EEF~IAGARMN                  PROJECT
/ L    \  -.wPICOP PLANTATION AREAS
- lO KILOMETER RADIUS OF PIGOP
.......         ~~~~PAPER MILL SITE
8030                                            SAN FRANCISCO                          .AS                      B.P. BRANCH OFFICE   R0aw
ROADS
ORIENTPROVINCIALBOUNDARIES
A  ,E.. SURTUAN BAY
12600'**** ,  1210      0       30
KILIOMETERS
DAVAO DE NORTE
DAVAO ORIENTAL
CANGAA
126000'                                      126('30'/



