CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 998 PH
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmers Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 12, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 998 PH
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farmers Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 12, 1974


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF THE
PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making
the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)  In carrying out the Project, the Borrower will relend the proceeds of
the Loan to the Development Bank of the Philippines (hereinafter called DBP)
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
DBP; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so
modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank


﻿4
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, the Bank may by notice
to the Borrower terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account,
as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.
Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall
be cancelled."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and DBP pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement;
(b)   "peso" means the currency unit of the Borrower and "foreign
currency" means any currency other than the currency of the Borrower;
(c)   "Charter" means the Charter of DBP as provided in RA 2081, dated
June 14, 1958, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(d)   "Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for Medium- and
Large-Scale Industrial Financing" means the statement of financing policy for
projects in the industrial sector approved by the Board of Governors of DBP on
May 29, 1974;
(e)   "Part A Beneficiary" means an individual, partnership, cooperative,
association or private corporation to which DBP proposes to make or has made
a Part A Sub-loan;
(f)   "Part A Sub-loan" means a loaa under Part A of the Project, made
or proposed to be made by DBP exclusively out of the proceeds of the Loan
to a Part A Beneficiary to finance expenditures for imported goods and services
for a Part A Investment Project;
(g)   "Free-limit Part A Sub-loan" means a Part A Sub-loan in an amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, even when added to the outstanding
amount of any other Part A Sub-loan made for the same Part A Investment Project;
provided that any Part A Sub-loan which when added to all other Free-limit Part
A Sub-loans financed or proposed to e financed out of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿5
would exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000, shall not be a Free-limit Part A
Sub-loan; and provided further that the foregoing amounts may be changed from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(h)   "Part A Investment Project" means a specific investment project to
be carried out by a Part A Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Part A Sub-loan;
(i)   "Part B Beneficiary" means an individual, partnership, cooperative or
association to which DBP proposes to rake or has made a Part B Sub-loan;
(j)   "Part B Sub-loan" means a loan in pesos under Part B of the Project,
made or proposed to be made by DBP out of the proceeds of the Loan to a
Part B Beneficiary to finance a Part B Investment Project;
(k)   "Part B Investment Project" means a specific tree-farming development
project to be carried out by a Part B Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Part
B Sub-loan; and
(1)   "PICOP" means the Paper Industries Corporation of the Philippines,
a corporation organized, established and operating under the laws of the Borrower,
and such term includes any subsidiary thereof and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for amounts disbursed (or,
if the Bank shall so agree, amounts requested to be disbursed) under Part A or
Part B Sub-loans, to finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Part A or Part B Investment Projects, respectively, and to be financed under
the Loan Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of the following:
(a)   expenditures in pesos or for goods or services supplied from the
Philippines, in the case of a Part A Sub-loan;


﻿6
(b)   disbursements made under a Sub-loan prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(c)   a Part A Sub-loan unless (i) the Part A Sub-loan shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the Part A Sub-loan shall be a Free-limit Part A
Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan
Account; and
(d)   expenditutes made by a Part A Beneficiary more than ninety days
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received (i) the request and
information required by Section 2.03(b) hereof, in the case of a Free-limit Part
A Sub-loan, or (ii) the application and information required by Section 2.03(a)
hereof, in the case of any other Part A Sub-loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a Part A Sub-loan (other than a Free-limit
Part A Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish or shall
cause to be furnished to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with a description of the Part A Beneficiary and an appraisal of the Part
A Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions
of the Part A Sub-loan including the schedule of its amortization and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a Free-limit Part A Sub-loan shall contain
a summary description of the Part A Beneficiary and the Part A Investment Project
(including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such Free-limit Part A
Sub-loan, including the schedule of its amortization.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before September 30, 1976.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of seven and
one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿*                                  7
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal of the Loan in
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower and such other
person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. DBP is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE HI
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by
DBP in accordance with its Charter and with due diligence and efficiency, in
conformity with sound administrative and financial practices, and with qualified
management and personnel, and shall provide DBP, or cause DBP to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend to DBP the proceeds of the
Loan under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and DBP, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including those set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable DBP to perform all of
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause DBP:


﻿8
(a)   to on-lend the funds relent to it under the Subsidiary Loan Agrcement,
for purposes of carrying out the Project, in accordance with the Lending Guidelines
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time, and, with respect to Part A of the Project, in accordance also
with DBP's Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures for Medium- and
Large-Scale Industrial Financing; and
(b)   to exercise its rights under the agreements providing for Part A or
Part B Sub-loans in such manner as: (i) to comply with the Borrower's obligation
under this Agreement; and (ii) to achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause DBP not to make any Part A Sub-loan in an amount exceeding the equivalent
of $5,000,000 or in an amount which would exceed such limit when added to
the outstanding principal amount of all other Part A Sub-loans made for the same
Part A Investment Project.
-Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause DBP:
(a)   to use its best efforts to enter into a contract with PICOP for purposes
of the carrying out of Part B of the Project, on terms and conditions which shall
include those set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; provided,
however, that no Part B Sub-loan shall be made until DBP shall have entered into
such contract with PICOP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)   to exercise its rights under such contract in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide or shall cause DBP to provide to
Part B Beneficiaries such technical assistance as shall be required to enable them
to make adequate use of the proceeds of Part B Sub-loans.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause DBP to establish and maintain two
separate accounts to record all and solely DBP's receipts and payments for or in
connection with Part A and Part B of the Project, respectively, including: (i)
amounts received from and payments made to the Borrower under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and (ii) amounts disbursed and received under Part A and Part
B Sub-loans.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause DBP to furnish to the Bank all
information the. Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,


﻿*                                     9
operations, resources and expenditures of DBP, including its lending activities in
the industrial sector.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower and the Bank
that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan by way of
a lien on governmental assets.
(b)   To that end the Borrower (i) represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external
debt except as otherwise disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
(ii) undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien
shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost to the Bank,
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any such
lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of the
Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower including the Central Bank of the
Philippines or any institution performing the functions of a central bank for the
Borrower.
(d)   The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits of the laws
in force in its territories, it will make the foregoing undertaking effective with
respect to liens on the assets of its political subdivisions and their agencies, and
to the extent that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Borrower will give to the
Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause DBP to maintain records adequate
(i) to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of DBP in respect of the Project, and (ii)


﻿10
to reflect the progress and cost of the Project, including the progress and cost
of each Part A Investment Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause DBP to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) including the accounts referred to in Section 3.07 hereof, for each
fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Commission on Audit of the Borrower; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon
as available, but in any case not later than three months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of DBP's financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said Commission on Audit, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of DBP and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. The Bank may, upon the occurrence of any of the events
specified in Section 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Section 5.02
or 5.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account; or (ii) declare the principal of the
Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the interest
and other charges thereon.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
on the part of the Borrower or of DBP under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Charter which will materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project; and
(c)   a change shall have been made in the Statement of Operating Policies
and Procedures for Medium- and Large-Scale Industrial Financing without the
Bank's concurrence.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿11
(a)   any of the events specified, in paragraph (a) or (c) of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Sectior  :.0 1(c)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery of the Sabsidiary
Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and DBP, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, the Borrower and DBP, respectively, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Borrower and DBP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 16, 1974, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila, Philippines


﻿12
Cable address:
SECFINANCE
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the farties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE I"ILIPPINES
By /s/ CesarVirata
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Raymond J. Goodman
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿13
SCHEDULE I
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Loan
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                            Dollar Equivalent)
I.   Part A Sub-                             48,000,000
loans
II.  Part B Sub-                              2,000,000
loans
TOTAL        50,000,000


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in financing, through
DBP, specific development projects in the Philippines to contribute to the economic
and social development of the country.
Part A:     Provision of credit to finance specific industrial development projects
in the manufacturing, public utilities, mining and tourism sectors.
Part B:     Provision of credit to smallholders in the Bislig Bay area of Mindanao
to assist them in developing their holdings for Albizia falcata tree crops.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
March 1, 1979                                          1,120,000
September 1, 1979                                      1,165,000
March 1, 1980                                          1,205,000
September 1, 1980                                      1,250,000
March 1, 1981                                          1,295,000
September 1, 1981                                      1,340,000
March 1, 1982                                          1,390,000
September 1, 1982                                      1,440,000
March 1, 1983                                          1,490,000
September 1, 1983                                      1,545,000
March 1, 1984                                          1,600,000
September 1, 1984                                      1,660,000
March 1, 1985                                          1,720,000
September 1, 1985                                      1 ,780,000
March 1, 1986                                          1,845,000
September 1, 1986                                      1,915,000
March 1, 1987                                          1,985,000
September 1, 1987                                      2,055,000
March 1, 1988                                          2,130,000
September 1, 1988                                      2,205,000
March 1, 1989                                          2,285,000
September 1, 1989                                      2,370,000
March 1, 1990                                          2,455,000
September 1, 1990                                      2,545,000
March 1, 1991                                          2,635,000
September 1, 1991                                      2,735,000
March 1, 1992                                          2,840,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿16
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                 1-1/4%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                    2%
More than six years but
not more than eleven years
before maturity                                 3-1/2%
More than eleven years but
not more than fourteen
years before maturity                           5-1/4%
More than fourteen years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                           6-1/4%
More than sixteen years
before maturity                                 7-1/4%


﻿17
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Guidelines
1.   Subsidiary Loan
(a)   Exchange risk. The proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance Part
A of the Project shall be on-lent by the Borrower to DBP in the currency or
currencies in which withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in accordance
with Section 4.01 of the General Conditions; i.e., the respective currencies in which
the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan have been paid
or are payable. DBP shall repay the principal so on-lent to it in the same currency
or currencies in which such withdrawals were made, and the amount repayable
in each currency shall be the amount withdrawn in that currency.
The proceeds of the Loan allocated to finance Part B of the Project
shall be on-lent by the Borrower to DBP in pesos, in an amount equivalent on
the date of withdrawal to the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account for that
purpose, and DBP shall repay as principal the same amount of pesos so on-lent
to it.
(b)   Rate of interest. 7-1/4% per year on outstanding amounts, payable
in the same currency as the corresponding portion of the principal.
2.   Part A Sub-loans
(a)   Exchange risk. Part A Sub-loans shall be made in the foreign currency
or currencies in which the expenditures to be financed have been paid or are
payable, and the principal of such Sub-loans shall be repaid in the same currency
or currencies in which they were made, and the amount repayable in each currency
shall be the amount withdrawn in that currency.
(b)   Rate of interest. Part A Sub-loans shall carry interest at the current
rate charged by DBP from time to time for other loans in the same sector under
similar conditions, and shall be payable in the same currency of the corresponding
portion of the principal.
(c)   Repayment terms. -Part A Sub-loans shall be repaid in not more than
16 years, including the grace period.
(d)   Other terms. Any Part A Sub-loan shall be made on terms whereby
DBP shall obtain, by written contract with the Part A Beneficiary, or by other


﻿18
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank, the
Borrower and DBP, including the right of DBP to: (i) require the Part A Beneficiary
to carry out and operate the Part A Investment Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time
of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Part A Investment
Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Part A Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require: (1) the Part A Beneficiary to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) that, without
any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, and that any
indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely usable by the Part A
Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Bank or DBP shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Part A Beneficiary; and
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Part A Beneficiary to the use of the
proceeds of the Loan upon its failure to perform any of its obligations under
its contract with DBP.
3.    Part B Sub-loans
(a)   Currency. Part B Sub-loans shall be made in pesos.
(b)   Rate of interest. Part B Sub-loans shall carry interest at the rate of
12% per year on outstanding amounts.
(c)   Term. Repayment in 15 years, including 8 years of grace.
(d)   Eligibility. Smallholders who: (i) have occupied at least 5 hectares of
alienable and disposable land for at least 5 years, even if they do not have legal
title to the land; (ii) have a signed marketing contract with PICOP; and (iii) would
develop holdings within 100 km. of PICOP's mill at Bislig in eastern Mindanao.


﻿19
(e) Beneficiary 's contribution. Part B Beneficiaries shall be required to
contribute from their own resources (including their own labor) not less than 25%
of the cost of each Part B Investment Project.
4.    Contract between DBP and PICOP
The terms and conditions of such contract shall include the following
undertakings by PICOP:
(a)   to purchase all the wood production of Part B Sub-loan Beneficiaries;
(b)   to pay the prevailing market price, and in any case a minimum
stumpage price of 15 pesos per cubic meter, for tree-farm pulpwood;
(c)   to review annually such minimum    price, starting in the last quarter
of 1975; and to revise it, if necessary, to ensure that the producers can obtain
a reasonable return on their investment;
(d)   to provide tree seedlings to Part B Sub-loan Beneficiaries, as required
by them to carry out their Part B Investment Project;
(e)   to provide Part B Sub-loan Beneficiaries with adequate technical
assistance; and
(f)   to continue its program of insect prevention and control in the area
where Part B of the Project will be carried out.


