FILE  COPY                                   Dkoument of
FL CPThe World Bank
VOR OFMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqrt No. P-2353-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
MOROGORO TEXTILE PROJECT
June 14, 1978
Thi doment has a reddoIutIbtd  Wom a i My be ued by recipies ondy in the perfmance of
thir offiia dte. lt cotets may Nat orwie be disclod with_t World _ak anhoaloun.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =        Tanzania Shiliing (TSh)
US$1.00                  =        TSh8.30
TShl.0                   =        US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued at a
fixed rate of 9.66 TSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions
in this report were made at US$1.00 to TSh8.30 which is
close to the recent average exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCM            =     Chama Cha Mapinduzi
Company        =     Morogoro Polyester Textiles Limited
Government     -     Government of Tanzania
ICB            -     International Competitive Bidding
MWATEX         =     Mwanza Textiles Limited
MAF            =     Management Agency Firm
PAF                  Project Advisory Firm
PEF            =     Project Engineering Firm
PIU            =     Project Implementation Unit
RTC            =     Regional Trading Company
TANZATEX       =     Tanzania Textile Trading Co.
TEXCO          =     National Textile Corporation
TIB            =     Tanzania Investment Bank
TMF            =     Technical Management Firm
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TEXCO and Company:       January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA - MOROGORO TEXTILE PROJECT
LOAN/CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:          United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARIES:     National Textile Corporation (TEXCO)
Morogoro Polyester Textiles Limited (Company)
AMOUNT:            Loan:      US$25.0 million
Credit:   US$20.0 million
TERMS:             Loan:      Terms of 20 years including 5 years of
grace with interest at 7.5% per annum
Credit:   Standard
RELENDING          US$8.5 million equivalent of the IDA Credit and the
TERMS:             entire IBRD Loan would be relent to the Company for
15 years including 4-1/2 years of grace with interest
at 10% per annum. The Company would bear the foreign
exchange risk. US$9.5 million equivalent of the IDA
Credit would be passed on to the Company as equity
andUS$2,0 million equivalent would be provided to
TEXCO.
PROJECT             The project would consist of an integrated textile
DESCRIPTION:        mill with spinning, weaving and processing facilities
to produce about 21.5 million sq. meters of blended
fabrics for shirtings and suitings, as well as 650
tons of polyester/rayon yarn. The mill would use
locally grown cotton and imported polyester and rayon,
and the project output would represent about 11% of
Tanzania's projected total fabric production in the
mid-1980s. The project includes provision for
financing of technical assistance to TEXCO, and a
training component. The project faces no substantial
risks with regard to technical, marketing and pricing
aspects. The management risk would be minimized with
the involvement of experienced international firms
during implementation and initial operations of the
project, and a training program has been designed to
ensure availability of trained manpower.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED                                                  (US$ Million (Equivalent)
COST:                                                     Local    Foreign    Total
Plant and Machinery                      3.7       29.0      32.7
Civil Works                             13.3        5.3      18.6
Freight, Insurance and
Port Handling                         2.0        3.6       5.6
Erection Cost                            0.3        1.9       2.2
Engineering and Other Services           1.4        3.3       4.7
Study and Training                       0.4        1.5       1.9
Base Cost                           21.1      44.6      65.7
Physical Contingencies                   1.6        2.2       3.8
Price Contingencies                      3.7        5.7       9.4
Working Capital                          8.8        5.7      14.5
Technical Assistance to TEXCO            0.2        2.0       2.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      35.4       60.2      95.6
Interest During Construction             3.7        7.6      11.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                39.1       67.8    106.9
of which taxes and duties                2.5        -         2.5
Project Costs net of taxes
and duties                           36.6       67.8    104.4
FINANCING PLAN:   Debt:
World Bank Loan 1/                       -         24.3      24.3
IDA Credit                               -          8.5       8.5
Suppliers Credits                        -         20.0      20.0
Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB)           -         10.0      10.0
Equity:
From proceeds of IDA Credit              9.4        2.1      11.5
From Government's own funds             29.7        2.9      32.6
TOTAL                                39.1       67.8    106.9
US$0.7 million of the Bank Loan would be used to finance
foreign expenditures for the Management Agency Firm to
manage the new plant during the first three years of
operation. This expenditure is therefore not included
in project capital cost estimates.



ESTIMATED
DISBURSEMENTS:   Bank FY                  1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Loan:     Annual                4.6   14.7    5.1    0.2    0.2    0.2
Cumulative            4.6   19.3   24.4   24.6   24.8   25.0
Credit:   Annual         8.3   11.7
Cumulative     8.3   20.0
RATE OF RETURN: 19%
APPRAISAL
REPORT:          No. 1893(b)-TA of May 20, 1978






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A MOROGORO TEXTILE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Loan to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$25.0 million equivalent and
a proposed Credit of US$20.0 million equivalent to help finance the Morogoro
Textile Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years
of grace at an annual interest rate of  7.5%   per annum and the Credit
would be on standard IDA terms. The grant element of the combined Bank
Loan and IDA Credit is about 40%. Bank/IDA funds amounting to US$33.5
million would be onlent to the project sponsor (Morogoro Polyester Textiles
Limited - the Company) for a period of 15 years including 4-1/2 years of
grace at an annual interest rate of 10%. US$9.5 million in IDA funds would
be passed on to the Company as equity and the remaining US$2.0 million in
IDA funds would be passed on to the National Textile Corporation (TEXCO) for
sectoral technical assistance. In addition to the Bank/IDA funds, the
United Republic of Tanzania is arranging to borrow an additional US$30.0
million from other sources. The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) is expected
to provide a loan of US$10.0 million for a period of 15 years, including
4-1/2 years of grace at an annual interest rate of 11%. The Government
is contacting export credit agencies to cover the remaining US$20.0 million
in project financing requirements.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY-/
Introduction
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976.  The
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is unrivaled in Africa.
The TANUVI party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has been the
1/  This section is the same as that of the President's Report on the
Tanzania Tobacco Handling Project (Report No. P-2313-TA dated May 1, 1978).
2/ TANU (the mainland political party) was merged with the Zanzibar
political party (the Afro-Shirazi Party) in February 1977. The new
party is now called Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM).



-2-
unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early 1950s. For
the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration in early 1967, Tanzania
has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the eradication
of poverty and economic and social transformation. The Government has empha-
sized rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production,
and full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution.  In restructuring the political,
economic and social life of the country the leadership has introduced a
series of far-reaching institutional reforms: most large-scale units in
manufacturing, finance and wholesale trade have been nationalized; the
Government has sharply increased its share of revenue in GDP through pro-
gressive taxation; a significant portion of public sector expenditure control
has been delegated to the regions and districts and a massive campaign of
villagization has been initiated to join the rural population in viable
long-term development units.
4.        With an average per capita income of $180, Tanzania is classified as
one of the least developed countries as defined by the United Nations (country
data are provided in Annex I). Between 1967 and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at
factor cost was growing at an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population
growing at2.7 percent per year, per capita output was rising at only i.b
percent per year on average. Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP
while gross investment was sustained at between 20 to 25 percent of GDP,
extremely high rates for a country at Tanzania's low level of per capita
income. However, the growth rate in GDP was not commensurate with the
magnitude of the investment effort, in part because of the high proportion
of investment which was directed into slow-gestation infrastructure and
social services projects but also because of sluggish growth in the agri-
cultural sector and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enter-
prises. During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance in the
export sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by
increasing capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms.
The overall balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73,
resulting in a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly
over $150 million at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months'
imports.
The Economic Crisis of 1974 and the Government's Response
5.        In 1974 Tanzania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic
crisis. Failure of rains in late 1973 and early 1974 caused a massive
decline in production and marketing of the major foodgrains and the Govern-
ment was compelled to import large quantities of grain. Tanzania's main
export crops were also affected by the drought, and the resultant declines
in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking advantage of the commodity
price boom of 1974. These agricultural problems were compounded by the disloca-
tion resulting from the rapid expansion of the villagization program.



-3-
On the import side, total cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent
between 1973 and 1974, despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of
these factors the trade deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340
million in 1974 while the overall balance of payments moved from a surplus
to a deficit of $140 million. This balance of payments gap was financed
largely through drawings from the IMF and a rapid depletion of reserves. Net
reserves fell to $60 million at the end of 1974, equivalent to only one month's
import requirements. Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to
shortages of imported raw materials and interruptions in power and water
supplies. While production declined, domestic demand increased rapidly because
of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The imbalance between
domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in import
prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
6.        Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized,
the Government formulated a comprehensive package of policy actions to
bring the balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of
its development effort. The principal elements of the package included a
reallocation of investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures
to raise agricultural output, and constraints on wages and on public and
private consumption. Government budget allocations to agriculture and
industry were substantially increased; significant increases were approved
in agricultural producer prices; tight import controls were implemented;
indirect taxes on consumer goods increased; user charges for water and
electricity were raised and an extremely restrictive wage and salary policy
was followed. This package was reviewed with the Bank at the time of
appraisal and negotiation of the Program Loan in late 1974, and approval
of that Loan was based on the Bank's agreement with and support of the policy
package. Approval of the subsequent Program Credit in 1977 was based in part on
the Government's overall performance in implementing the agreed upon program.
Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
7.        The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather conditions and the effects of the
policy measures introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.5 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in
1974, while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in
1974. This was despite the fact that during 1975 production of cotton and
some other cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagization.
In 1976 some of the problems of villagization were being rectified through
"operation correction," and since rains were once again favorable agricul-
tural production was generally good. Agricultural production increased by
about 4.5 percent in real terms in 1976, industrial production expanded 6.2
percent and GDP grew 5.2 percent. Preliminary estimates are that agriculture
and total production expanded by about 5 percent again in 1977.
8.        The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties, declines
in some agricultural export prices and the continuing need to import food
for part of the year. The trade deficit increased from $340 million in



-4-
1974 to $400 million in 1975. Even after allowing for a high level of
project-related capital inflows and a huge increase in grant assistance and
concessional food aid, there was a residual deficit of almost $75 million.
Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost entirely through a
combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975 deficit was
met through foreign assistance from a variety of sources, including the $30
million Program Loan from the World Bank (para. 6). In 1976 the balance of
payments picture improved. The trade deficit declined due to strong export
performance, especially for coffee and cotton, and to a slight fall in the
value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened need for foodgrain imports
and continuing tight restrictions on all other categories of imports. The
overall balance of payments surplus was about $35 million for the year and
continued in surplus throughout 1977. Gross foreign exchange reserves at
the end of 1977 totalled $280 million, or about four months imports. Because
of the very concessional terms on which aid has been given to Tanzania and
the Government's refusal to use higher cost commercial loans and suppliers'
credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained low. Including a
notional 40% share of the debt of the East African Community Corporations,
it was less than 8% in 1977. While the favorable terms of much of Tanzania's
foreign assistance (particularly the increasing proportion of grants) signi-
ficantly reduce the debt service burden they also increase Bank Group expo-
sure. Debt service payments to the Bank Group were about 28.6% of Tanzania's
total debt service payments in 1977, and are projected to rise to approximately
30% in 1980.
9.        Tanzania has a suitable development program which will require
substantial domestic funds in excess of local savings and external capital.
In view of our support for the Government's increased emphasis on local cost
intensive rural investments and the need not to aggravate the local funds
shortage, local cost financing is justified on country grounds.
East African Community (EAC)
10.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977. Dr. Victor
Umbricht, the independent mediator recently appointed by the Partner States,
visited East Africa in February and has begun work on the questions involved
in appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC Corporations and making
recommendations on their allocation.   The de facto breakup of the Community
is expected to have some impact on Tanzania's budget as new national corpo-
rations take over the services formerly provided by the EAC Corporations.
While substantial initial investments are required (particularly in the
formation of the airways corporation and the rehabilitation of the railways),
the burden on the Government budget will hopefully be temporary as the new
corporations should become self-financing. A major development related to
the EAC difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a
major trading partner of Tanzania and in the short run considerable adjust-
ments have had to be made in locating new suppliers for some items and
developing alternative outlets for some manufactured goods and agricultural
products.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
11.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 33 IDA credits, 13 Bank loans and
two Third Window loans amounting to $559.5 l/ million have so far been
approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of
10 loans totalling $244.8 million which have been extended for the develop-
ment of the common services and development bank operated regionally by
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling $4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their
interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of $1.75
million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 8, 1978. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Tanzania and the East African Community organizations as of
April 30, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy, Bank
Group lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector
and directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14
loans and credits made individually to Tanzania had been for infrastructure.
The overwhelming majority of the operations approved since then have been
for directly productive projects. Furthermore, a number of Bank Group
supported infrastructure projects have been closely linked with specific
productive activities. For example, the Urban Water Supply Project
CLoan No. 1354-TA) approved in January 1977, will support the Industrial
Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) and the proposed
project. Other directly productive projects recently approved include a
Tanzanian Investment Bank Project, a Tobacco Handling Project, a Second
Cashewnut Processing Project and a Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development
Project. The first Bank Group assisted project in the forestry sector,
the Sao Hill Forestry Project (Loan No. 1307-TA), approved in July 1976
will provide the raw materials for Tanzania's first paper and pulp plant,
also under consideration by the Bank Group for financing. Projects which
have been appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, a Sixth
Education Project, the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project, a Tourism Rehabi-
litation Project, and a Fifth Highway Project. A rural development project
in Mara, a harbours project, an agricultural services project and a line
of credit to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank are also under preparation.
Including three projects approved by the Executive Directors on May 16,
1978 -- the Tobacco Handling Project, the Second Cashewnut Processing
Project and the Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project.



-6-
13.      Although the comparatively high proportion of undisbursed loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result
of the recent approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the
fact that overall project implementation has been slower than was pro-
jected. It is clear in retrospect that both the Bank and Tanzania have
been optimistic regarding Tanzania's absorptive capacity. The causes of
the difficulties in implementation are varied. Some stem from the
scarcity of suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the
problems in identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the
needs of smallholder farmers while others result from the strains asso-
ciated with attempting a "frontal attack" on poverty. These problems
have been compounded by frequent and drastic administrative changes, which --
though potentially the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly
disrupted orderly execution of projects and made parts of earlier project
concepts obsolete. In general, these difficulties have been more severe
in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these
problems have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By
contrast, the "modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the
Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile, and Cashewnut Processing
Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
14.       As the Bank's lending program has expanded, increasing attention
has been given to measures designed to improve project implementation.
A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
nine Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to
Bank projects. The need to establish a close and continuous working level
dialogue between responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank staff on follow-
ing up implementation problems was one of the prime reasons for the expan-
sion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in October 1976. In
February 1977 a regular Government/Bank review of project implementation
was established.  Discussions, chaired by the Ministry of Finance and
attended by Bank staff and officials from implementing agencies, were
held in Dar es Salaam on the entire Bank Group program. Steps to
strengthen this review procedure were taken in August 1977 when those
meetings were shifted to a monthly basis. The Government also agreed
that periodically these reviews will be conducted on an "in-depth"
basis to discuss in detail individual problem projects and problems
which are affecting project implementation across a number of sectors.
As a result of these reviews a number of positive developments have
been noted.  Most of the actions agreed to during the reviews have been
completed. In addition, the reviews have significantly improved coordi-
nation and communication by providing an opportunity for project implementing
agencies to discuss their problems with all ministries involved and with
high level officials in the Ministry of Finance. During the two in-depth
reviews in October 1977 and January 1978 a series of general implementation
issues were discussed with senior Tanzanian officials and follow-up actions
or investigations agreed upon. The next in-depth review is scheduled to
take place in July.



-7-
15.       The Government has also become increasingly conscious of
implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project implementa-
tion review system, the Ministry of Finance has now decided to set up an
internal unit to oversee project performance. Furthermore, there have
been more consistent responses to Bank suggestions and a willingness to
openly discuss project problems raised by Bank staff. As a consequence,
the project disbursement record has improved somewhat over the last two
years, and a recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement
performance is about equal to the Bank-wide average. However, it should be
noted that significant potential for further improvements exists as a wide
range of serious long-term bottlenecks remain. This is particularly true
in the agriculture and rural development sectors where individual projects
face a considerable number of constraints in trying to increase the incomes
of smallholders (the lack of proven technical packages, a weak extension
system, problems in input distribution and output collection, etc.).
PART III - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
16.       At the time of independence in 1961, Tanzania had a rudimentary
industrial sector which contributed less than 5% to Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) and was mainly confined to simple processing of export items such as
cotton, sisal, and coffee; cotton ginning was the largest single manufactur-
ing activity.
17.       With the new orientation of economic policies after the Arusha
Declaration of 1967 (para. 3), industrial development became a major concern
of the Government, the primary focus being on import substitution in essential
consumer goods and meeting the basic needs of the population. Existing
major manufacturing plants were brought under the newly established Government
companies (parastatals), and these companies became the leading investors
in medium and larger scale industrial units. In 1974, the parastatal
organizations accounted for an estimated 50% of new capital formation and
50% of manufacturing value added. However, even with the increase in
parastatal activity, the private sector remains an important participant
in industry (430 of 500 factories with over 10 employees are in private
hands).
18.       The expansion of public ownership of manufacturing enterprises
(there are currently six parastatals under the Ministry of Industry) has
been accompanied by increasing reliance on direct controls in allocation
decisions. Components of the control system include centralized decision
making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange through
import licensing, credit allocations according to the annual Finance and
Credit Plan, wage setting, and price controls.



-8-
19.      The growth of industry until 1973 was quite significant, reaching
an average annual rate of 9.4% in real terms between 1964 and 1973. During
this period, the share of manufacturing in GDP at current prices rose from
nearly 7% to 11.5% and in 1973 almost half of the total supply of manu-
factured goods in Tanzania was produced locally. Rapid advances have
been made in import substitution of consumer goods, which represented
about 60% of the total output of large and medium scale manufacturing firms in
1973. After a decade of significant growth, however, the manufacturing
sector stagnated during 1974 and 1975 because of steep increases in the
pricesof imported commodities, an acute balance of payments problem,
extended drought, and shortages of water and power. Industry has sub-
sequently recovered from the period of economic crisis and an industrial
growth of 6.2% in real terms was achieved in 1976.
20.      While this record of increasing output would seem to indicate
satisfactory industrial performance, a detailed analysis of Tanzania's
record in the manufacturing sector indicates that productivity has been
low and output has been far less than warranted by the level of invest-
ment. The problems underlying the suboptimal performance in the sector
are many. At the macro level, the Government has not yet developed the
administrative capability to monitor and coordinate effectively the
control systems which were instituted along with increased public owner-
ship of manufacturing enterprises. While the Government felt these
controls were needed to achieve its development goals, their effect has
largely been to insulate public enterprises from the discipline of market
forces. At the micro level two additional sets of problems operate.
First, performance indicators consistent with the macro control systems
and clear guidelines for evaluating performance are still lacking.
Managers and workers, therefore, have few motivating incentives. Second,
there is a scarcity of trained managerial personnel and skilled labor,
and most enterprises have to live with periodic shortages of other key
inputs.
21.       These issues have been raised in various Bank reports on the
Tanzanian industrial sector and were a particular focus of the review
of the Basic Economic Report in November 1977. The Government is well
aware of them and considerable discussions have tAlne  place witI-ir Tanzania
on possible solutions. While decisions on major macro policy changes
dealing with the incentive system for workers and managers, efficiency of
parastatals and the price and import control systems will take time because
of their broad impact, some steps have been taken. The Government recently
agreed to institute an incentive system in the textile industry; managers
are being held accountable for performance -- companies consistently making
losses are being told to either improve performance or expect to be wound
up; and some steps have been taken to loosen or remove import controls
on spare parts and raw materials, At the firm level, a series of additional
steps have been taken! there has been retrenchment in overmanned parastatals;



-9-
a limit has been placed on allowable increases in overhead costs of
manufacturing firms which approach the National Price Commission for
price increases; and foreign consultant groups have been hired to advise
on how to achieve operational/managerial improvements, The use of such
consultants has greatly improved the operating performance of the firms
under the National Development Corporation (the largest industrial holding
company in Tanzania). Similar efforts are to be initiated in the textile
sector and will be supported under the project (para.29).
Basic Industrial Strategy and the Third Five-Year Plan
22.      Future development of the sector will be based on the Basic Industrial
Strategy (BIS) which was adopted in 1974 by the Government. The two main
goals of this strategy are structural transformation and self-reliance and
its main emphasis is on the use of domestic resources for domestic needs.
This involves giving top priority in investment allocations to industries
supplying (i) basic needs of food, shelter, health, education and trans-
port, and (ii) producer goods which contribute to production of a wide
range of industrial products. However, as it has emerged, BIS will also
permit expansion of export-oriented production, especially that based on
domestic raw materials (for example cashew processing, sisal spinning,
textile manufacturing, and meat and leather processing). A potential
problem with the BIS is that attempts to restructure the economy too
quickly during a period of resource stringency may ultimately frustrate
both growth and structural change. Too rapid expansion of particular
sectors may lead to excessive reliance on external finance, know-how
and markets, and the massive investment coordination required by the
strategy may overburden the country's already weak planning capacity.
23.      Preliminary indications are that the Third Five-Year Plan under
preparation (FY77-81) envisages an investment program of about TSh23
billion, of which about 21 percent will go to manufacturing. Projects
earmarked for development/implementation under the Plan are mainly based
on Tanzania's domestic resources. Among the sizeable Tanzanian projects
currently under implementation in the industrial sector with Bank Group
support are the industrial estate at Morogoro, cashewnut processing
factories and the textile mill expansion at Mwanza. In addition, the
National Development Corporation is presently implementing five major
projects:  a tannery, a bicycle plant, a farm implements factory, a
detergents factory, and a pharmaceutical plant. A pulp and paper mill
project is in an advanced stage of preparation for Bank Group financing and
future investments in the textile sector are reviewed below (para.34 ).
Textile Subsector
24.      As the third largest cotton producer in Africa, Tanzania has a
significant raw materials base to expand textile production. It
currently produces about 67,000 tons of cotton per year of which about
15% is locally processed into textiles. The rest is exported mainly to
Hong Kong, the People's Republic of China and Japan. Tanzania cotton is
of superior variety and commands a premium on the export markets.



-10-
25.      Guided by the Arusha Declaration, the public sector has assumed
a leading role in the development of the textile industry. A textile
holding company, the National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), was established
to oversee the expansion of the industry and it began to implement a
number of large scale mills and consolidate a few others. As a result,
the textile and clothing sector, which played a minor role in the early
1960s, has become the largest individual manufacturing subsector,
accounting in 1976 for 15% of total gross output, 20% of value added, and
30% of employment in manufacturing firms employing 10 or more workers.
Total employment in the subsector was about 22,000 in 1976.  The domestic
output of woven textiles, which W'as less than 10 million   m2  in the early
1960s, expanded to about 91 million m2 in 1974. It has declined in
subsequent years because of several problems discussed further in para. 27
below. In cotton textiles, which represent about 95% of total domestic
output of woven textiles, import substitution has progressed significantly.
In blended fabrics import substitution has been minimal,
26.      There are currently seven textile mills in Tanzania, five of
which are under TEXCO. Two are in the private sector. The textile
mills under TEXCO represent 94% of the total annual production capacity.
In addition, there are 38 garment manufacturers,each employing 10 people
or more,producing about 2.8 million trousers, 2.2 million shirts, and
children's clothing items, among other things. A new Government garment
factory was established recently under TEXCO with a capacity to produce
500,000 trousers and 1 million pieces of ladies' and children's apparel annually.
27.       Sectoral Problems.  Recently, the industry has faced management,
financial, and manpower problems which are particularly pronounced in
the TEXCO group. The problems are mainly related to:(i) the reduction
in the number of expatriates in key positions before adequately developing
Tanzanian capabilities; (ii) lack of adequate training and maintenance
programs; (iii) lack of spare parts to keep equipment running at acceptable
rates; and (iv) power and water shortages which, with the commissioning of
new facilities, have now been largely resolved. If all existing TEXCO mills
had operated at effective capacity (which is feasible under efficient opera-
tional conditions), their textile output in 1977 would have been about 95
million m2, 27 million m2 more than their actual output in 1977. In the
labor-intensive garment industry, a specific problem has developed as
restrictions on imports of shirtings and suitings of polyester blends have
forced garment manufacturers to produce at low capacity and reduce the number
of their employees. The situation is expected to improve with the local
production of blended fabrics under the proposed project.
28.       The management of TEXCO is aware of the need to improve operations
at its five existing mills, and a number of steps have been taken which
should have a positive effect on sectoral output in 1978 and beyond.
Completion of an expansion program and introduction of an incentive system
to reward workers for increased efficiency at one mill has already resulted
in substantial improvements. At a second mill, a rehabilitation, balancing
and expansion program completed in October 1977 is expected to increase 1978 output
by 50% over last year. At two other mills, modernization and expansion pro-
grams are scheduled to begin implementation in late 1978 with completion in
1980. Steps to improve operations at the other TEXCO mill, Mwanza Textiles
Limited (MWATEX), are described in more detail below (para. 33).



- 11 -
29.       To supplement the above programs, TEXCO and the Government have
agreed to appoint a Technical Management Firm (TMF) to assist TEXCO in
carrying out a study by December 31, 1978 that will recommend measures to
improve the capacity utilization and productivity of operating textile mills.
Appointment of the TMF is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan
and credit (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and
modification or termination of the contract with the TMF would be subject to
the approval of the Bank (Sections 2.03(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Financing for the TMF would be provided by the Tanzania Investment
Bank (TIB) using part of the funds available under the IDA Technical Assistance
Project (Cr. 601-TA). After completion of the study, TEXCO would review the
study's recommendations with the Bank and thereafter take such measures as
shall be necessary to implement the recommendations, including the employment
of qualified and experienced technical personnel (Section 2.03(c) of the
draft Project Agreement). Financing for the technical personnel needed to
assist TEXCO would be provided under the proposed project.
30.       Market.  Despite the impressive development of a cotton based
textile industry which produced a rapid increase in local production of
woven textiles (para. 25 above), textile supplies in Tanzania have been
inadequate to meet local demand. Moreover, local supplies have been
further curtailed as a result of both problems at the existing textile
mills (para. 27) and an increase in import restrictions on textiles due
to balance of payments problems. These developments resulted in a sharp
decline in the apparent consumption of woven textiles from 8.5 m2 per
capita in 1974 to about 6 m2 in 1976, which was less than the level reached
in the mid-1960s (1966: 7.5 m2 per capita).  Taking into account the unsa-
tisfied demand estimated for 1974 and the actual growth of per capita income
in 1975 and 1976, as well as the elasticity of demand for textiles, consump-
tion in 1976 might have reached 10 m2 per capita but for these supply
constraints. This would represent total consumption of 153 million m2 of
textiles in 1976, compared to actual consumption of 93 million m2.
31.       Due to foreign exchange constraints, import restrictions have
been particularly severe for blended fabrics (imports were cut from 20
million m2 in 1973 to 6 million m2 in 1976).  In the absence of any
significant domestic production of blended textiles (less than 5 million m2
in 1976) this has resulted in a severe cutback in Tanzania's per capita
consumption of man-made fibers. This reduction occurred in spite of the
fact that Tanzania's textile demand had been shifting toward blended fabrics,
which have a ready market in work clothes, school uniform and other
institutional clothing and are in great demand because of greater
durability and easy care properties. Supply/demand projections indicate
the demand for blended fabrics is expected to increase to 28 million m2
in 1980 and 46 million min in 1985. Thus the proposed project would cover
only about 46% of the estimated 1985 demand. Except for very limited
production of blended fabrics by another TEXCO owned mill and two private
mills, the proposed project would be the only source of such materials in
Tanzania.



-12-
32.       Marketing and distribution of textiles in Tanzania is currently
handled by the Tanzania Textile Trading Company (TANZATEX), a parastatal
under the Ministry of Trade. Because of management and other staff
constraints, TANZATEX is ill-equipped to perform its designated functions
efficiently. Its activities are too centralized to ensure a balanced
distribution of textiles in Tanzania, and its marketing research and
export promotion services are virtually non-existent. As a result, the
Government has taken measures to allow all mills by July 1, 1978
to distribute their output directly through Regional Trading Companies.
This arrangement would apply to the proposed project, and should help
the Company to build up an efficient sales organization and to facilitate
early adjustment in the product mix to take account of changes in market
conditions, consumer tastes and styles. The Government agreed that it
would continue to make satisfactory arrangements for the sale and
distribution of the Company's outputs (Section 3.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Bank Experience in Textiles
33.       In its first loan to Tanzania in the textile sector (Loan 1128-TA
of 1975), the Bank provided financing for expansion of one of TEXCO's mills,
Mwanza Textiles Limited (MWATEX). Project implementation performance
has been acceptable and is due for completion by July 1978, four months
behind schedule, but within the original cost estimates. The existing
MWATEX mill operated satisfactorily until 1975, but since then production
has declined. Between 1975 and 1977, efficiency as a percent of effective
capacity dropped from 82 to 59% in the spinning mill and from 65 to 52%
in the weaving mill. These declines can be attributed to: management
deficiencies caused by reduction in expatriate staff before local personnel
were fully prepared to take over; lack of attention to preventive and
operational maintenance; and shortages of spare parts which have resulted
in excessive equipment break-downs. In order to ensure efficient operation
in future, a management agency firm has been identified to manage the
expanded complex for a period of at least three years, as requiired under
the terms of the Bank loan. In addition, TEXCO has completed studies with
regard to reconditioning of equipment, and measures required to attain a
smooth flow of operations in MWATEX's existing and expansion facilities.
Contracts to implement the recommendations of the studies are expected to
be signed by the end of June 1978 but due to the lead time required to
order spare parts, the bulk of the work on reconditioning of equipment is
not expected to begin until December 1978. The general liberalization of
import restrictions by the Government will help to ease the shortage of
spare parts and alleviate maintenance delays in future. In addition, over
the next three years, the management agency firm will assist in the imple-
mentation of measures to improve MWATEX*s operations. It is believed
these actions will satisfactorily resolve the existing problems.



-13-
Other Investments in Textiles
34.       TEXCO's investment plan for the next Five-Year Plan has been
reviewed by Bank staff and found acceptable. Assurances have been obtained
that TEXCO will keep the Bank Group informed of major developments within
the textile sector (Section 5.02 of the draft Project Agreement). In
addition to the Mwanza Project, three projects are under implementation
by TEXCO: the Tabora and Ubungo Spinning Mills and the Musoma Textile
Mill. The Tabora Spinning Mill (scheduled for completion in late 1979),
is designed to produce 5,950 tons of cotton yarn per year, while the
Ubungo Spinning Mill (scheduled for completion in mid-1980) will produce
3,000 tons of cotton yarn annually. The Musoma project, to be completed
by the end of 1980, will produce 22 million m2 of cotton fabrics. The
Government is also considering a textile mill at Mbeya to produce 25 million
m2 of grey cloth, including 7 million m2 for export.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was proposed to the Bank in June 1975, to help the
country meet the growing but largely unsatisfied demand for blended fabrics.
It is part of the Government's program to expand the domestic production of
textiles with the aim of reducing the import dependence in essential con-
sumer items. A preappraisal mission visited Tanzania in June/July 1977 and
this was followed by a full appraisal in October/November 1977 and a mission
in February 1978. Negotiations on the project were held in Washington in
early May 1978. The Tanzanian delegation was led by Dr. F. M. Kazaura,
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Industry. A Loan/Credit and Project
Summary is at the   front of this report.
Project Description
36.       The project will consist of an integrated textile mill to be
located at Morogoro, about 200 km west of Dar es Salaam, and will produce
21.5 million m2 of blended fabrics for shirtings and suitings (about 14
million m2 polyester/cotton blends and 7.5 million  m2 of polyester/rayon
blends) as well as 650 tons of polyester/rayon yarn for sale to an existing
textile plant. The project is basically directed at import substitution;
no significant quantities of blended fabrics are expected to be available
for export. As noted in para. 29 above, funds would also be provided
under the project to finance technical assistance directed at improving
capacity utilization in the existing textile mills. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1893(b)-TA, dated May 20, 1978) is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors.



-14-
Project Execution and Operation
37.       The immediate responsibility for the execution of the new project
would rest with TEXCO's Project Implementation Unit. This unit would be
assisted by a Project Advisory Firm responsible for supervising project
implementation, and a Project Engineering Firm responsible for project
design, engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, and
training of personnel. These firms have been selected and contracts are
being negotiated. Appointment of the firms under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Loan and Credit (Section 5.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement),
and the contracts would not be modified or terminated without the prior
consent of the Bank (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
The implementation period covers 3-1/2 years of construction with
commissioning expected to be in January 1982. It would be followed by
a 3-year production build-up with production reaching full effective
capacity from 1985 onwards. The project would be owned and operated by
Morogoro Polyester Textiles Limited (the Company), a new company
established in February 1978 under TEXCO.
38.       The project would employ a staff of 2,525 of which 150 would be in
general management and administration and 2,375 in factory management and
operations. During the initial years of operation of the project, the
Company would have to rely on expatriate assistance for performing key
technical and managerial functions. A Management Agency Firm (MAF) would
therefore be appointed six months before mechanical completion of the
project to operate the mill for at least the initial three years of plant
operation, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; this contract
would not be modified or terminated without prior Bank consent (Section 2.06
of the draft Project Agreement).
39.       Recruitment of all management and other staff would take place
during construction. Some middle management, foremen and skilled workers
are likely to be drawn from the existing textile mills. However, due to
the persistent shortage of trained people in Tanzania, supplemental training
would be provided under a program for training abroad and in a training
center to be established in Morogoro as part of the project. The Company
and TEXCO have agreed that a specific recruitment and training plan would be
submitted for Bank approval by December 31, 1978; this training program would
be carried out according to a mutually agreed plan.In order to ensure the
availability of trained personnel to take over the operation of the mill
at the conclusion of the appointment of the MAF, assurances were obtained
regarding the timely appointment of qualified key management personnel
to be trained by the MAF. Details of agreements reached with regard to
training are given in Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement.
40.       Provision of housing facilities for expatriates and top and
middle-level executives is included in the project cost estimates. TEXCO



-15-
has prepared a workerst housing plan for the proposed textile project
and it was agreed that adequate sites and services would be developed
in Morogoro in a timely fashion for project workers (Section 3.04 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Raw Materials and Utilities
41.       The proposed mill would use locally grown cotton and imported
polyester and rayon. The Agricultural and Industrial Supplies Company
Limited, a state trading company, is in charge of the import of items
such as dyestuffs, chemicals and fibre materials for the textile sub-
sectors, and charges 10% commission on the c.i.f. value to meet its
overhead costs. However, effective July 1, 1978 companies in Tanzania
will be allowed to import these raw material requirements directly.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that it would continue to
make satisfactory arrangements to ensure that the Company could procure
imported raw materials, maintenance materials and spare parts in a
timely manner (Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Finally, the Government agreed to take adequate measures to meet the
project's water and power requirements in time for project start-up
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Technology
42.       For the proposed project, modern but conventional technology would
be used in the spinning and weaving units which account for about 85% of the
project cost. The choice of conventional technology (broad automatic shuttle
looms, and ring spindles) rather than pre-conventional technology (narrow
mechanical looms and direct spinning) is based on the fact that in most
applications pre-conventional technology is less efficient due to: (i) slow
machine speed; (ii) higher capital and operating costs per unit of output;
(iii) lack of machine versatility to produce finer fabrics; and (iv) the
need for additional skilled operators. In the finishing unit, the latest
processing technology would be used not to save on labor but to ensure high
product quality and also to economize on the use of water, fuel, dyestuffs,
and chemicals. Were a less advanced process to be employed, the finishing
mill would not absorb many additional employees. Project size was decided
after studying various alternatives and after taking into account the
demand for blended fabrics, economies of scale, and availability of financing.
Ecological Considerations
43.       Provision has been made in the project to keep within interna-
tionally acceptable limits the discharge of solid, liquid and gaseous
wastes. The design of the buildings would allow the noise level to be
kept below 90 decibels, and fire protection and emergency lighting systems
are also included. These environmental facilities are judged adequate, and
assurances were received that they will be installed and properly maintained
(Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agreement).



-16-
Project Cost and Financing
44.       The  estimated total financing required for the project is
US$106.9 million equivalent, including US$2.2 million for sectoral
assistance to TEXCO and $2.5 million in taxes and duties. About 65%
of net project costs is in foreign exchange. The cost of equipment
and materials to be procured from foreign suppliers has been estimated
on the basis of indicative quotations provided by various prospective
suppliers of modern conventional equipment. Price contingencies
totalling 15% on the base project cost are calculated on the basis of
the appraisal mission's estimates of price movements in Tanzania and
elsewhere.
45.       The proposed Bank Group financing of US$45 million -- a US$25
million Bank loan and a US$20 million IDA credit -- would cover about 42%
of the total financing required for the project and would include US$35.6
million in foreign costs and US$9.4 million in local costs. Financing of
local costs is justified on country grounds (para. 9). The remaining
project costs would be financed by the Government's own resources and
borrowings from other sources. The proposed Bank Loan would be made to
the Government for a period of 20 years including 5 years of grace. The
proposed IDA Credit would be made to the Government on standard IDA terms.
IDA funds for sectoral assistance to TEXCO (US$2.0 million) would be passed
on by the Government directly to TEXCO. US$9.5 million of IDA funds would
be passed through TEXCO to the Company as equity and the remaining US$8.5
million in IDA funds and all Bank funds would be onlent from the Government
to the Company at an annual interest rate of 10% for a period of 15 years,
including 4-1/2 years of grace. These onlending terms are slightly more
favorable than for the Mwanza Textile Project because the proposed project
is a completely new project while Mwanza was primarily an expansion. The
Company would bear the foreign exchange risk on the loan and credit proceeds
relent to it. Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government
and the Company, reflecting these conditions, is a condition of effectiveness
of the project (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Bank/IDA funds would be used to finance civil works, equipment and spares
for weaving and processing, initial imported raw material requirements,
technical assistance, engineering services, study and training and interest
on the Bank loan during construction.
46.     The proposed financing plan is based on an offer of US$20.0 million
equivalent for bilateral credit through the Japanese EXIM Bank, for spinning
and weaving equipment to be provided by Toyo Menka of Japan. That credit
would be repayable over 8 years at an interest rate of 8% per annum, with
the first installment due 24 months after the date of the last shipment
under the credit. This represents an effective grace period of about 4 years.
TEXCO is also investigating other possible sources of bilateral and suppliers'
credits for spinning and weaving equipment in Europe, Asia and the United
States with a view to establishing a bidding procedure which would enable
them to arrive at the lowest evaluated bid taking into account detailed prices



- 17 -
and financing terms for the equipment. The financing plan is subject to
change following determination of the exact amount of bilateral financing
to be provided. The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) has agreed in principle
to provide US$10.0 million equivalent to help finance the project. The
TIB loan (which would not utilize the proceeds of Bank Group lending to
TIB) would be for 15 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace, with interest
at 11% per annum; funds would be used to finance the downpayment on equipment
expected to be provided under bilateral or suppliers' credit, and to finance
most of the foreign component of civil works. All of the Government's own
funds for the project (US$32.6 million) would be provided as equity, with
installments made according to a specific schedule (Section 3.01(d) and
Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Effectiveness of
financing from TIB and external sources is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Bank Loan and IDA Credit (Section 5.01(c) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
47.     Goods and services (except consultants) financed by Bank/IDA
would be procured through international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines except: (a) items costing less than US$100,000
equivalent but not exceeding the aggregate amount of US$2 million may be
purchased through international shopping on the basis of suitability,
availability and price considerations; and (b) proprietary items and items
in limited supply critical to the timely completion of the project whose
aggregate cost is estimated not to exceed US$1 million may be procured
following bidding from a list of qualified suppliers acceptable to Bank/IDA.
48.     In the event that domestic manufacturers submit bids for equip-
ment or spares, a preferential margin in bid evaluation equivalent to the
prevailing tariff, or 15% of the c.i.f. cost of imports, whichever is lower,
would be granted for items financed by Bank/IDA. Equipment financed under
bilateral or suppliers' credit (para. 46 above) would be procured according
to their guidelines. About 58% of civil works (excluding site development
and housing) would be financed with Bank/IDA funds; contracting would be
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines,
with local contractors being given a 7.5% preference. Local procurement
and civil works financed by the Government and TIB would be carried out
according to Government procedures which are acceptable to Bank/IDA.
49.     Bank/IDA funds would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 78% of local
and 15% of foreign expenditures for civil works (excluding site develop-
ment and housing); and (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance, engineering services, study and training, imported equipment
and spares, imported raw materials for initial operations, freight and
insurance, erection and start-up costs related to imported equipment
financed by Bank/IDA, and interest during construction on the Bank Loan.
Retroactive financing for engineering services, training, and foreign
expenditures for bid advertisements is recommended up to US$500,000
equivalent for project expenditures incurred after March 1, 1978 (Schedule
1, para. 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



-18-
Financial and Reporting Covenants
50.       In order to ensure a sound financial situation for the project,
the Company will maintain at all times a current ratio of at least 1.5:1
and a debt/equity ratio of 60/40 (Sections 4.04 and 4.03, respectively,
of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, the Company will not
declare or pay any dividends if by so doing the Company's projected debt
service coverage ratio for the fiscal year involved would fall below 1.5:1
(Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement). Furthermore, for the
initial three years after completion of the mill,  the Company will
exchange views with the Bank on any investment by the Company not related
to the project whose aggregate cost would exceed US$5.0 million in any
fiscal year (Section 4.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Finally, the
Government will take all measures necessary to ensure that the Conpa-i. at:
efficient operations obtains revenues sufficient to cover all its costs,
service its debts and earn a reasonable return on capital invested
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       Annual financial statements of the Company would be audited by
an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group and submitted to the
Bank Group within four months after the end of the year and prompt atten-
tion would be given to audit recommendations. Quarterly financial
statements and reports on project progress and procurement status would
be submitted within 45 days after each quarter (Sections 2.09(b) and
4.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The Company will also train
and employ competent accounting personnel to prepare the accounts
satisfactorily (Section 3.01 of the draft Project Agreement). No later than
six months after the closing date, a completion report on the execution and
initial operations of the project would be prepared and furnished to the
Bank Group (Section 2.09(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
52.       The proposed project would contribute to meeting Tanzania's grow-
ing demand for blended fabrics and help save scarce foreign exchange. After
reaching full capacity in 1985, the project is estimated to generate net
foreign exchange savings of over US$20 million annually (1977 prices). The
project would directly create about 2,525 jobs and would have a significant
indirect employment impact, particularly in the garment industry (at least
1,500 jobs) which is suffering from low capacity utilization due to severe
import restrictions on blended fabrics. As the project would be located
in Morogoro, a Government designated new growth center to relieve population
pressure in Dar es Salaam, it would help ensure a more balanced regional
development in Tanzania. Moreover, the project would help transfer appro-
priate modern technology and skills to Tanzania through training and technical
assistance.



-19-
53.       The economic rate of return (ERR) of the proposed project is estimated
at about 19%. In the proposed project, the ERR is more sensitive to changes in
revenue than in operating and investment cost but sensitivity tests show that
under all moderately adverse circumstances, the rate of return remains at an
acceptable level.- The financial rate of return of the proposed project is satis-
factory at 18.9% before and 12.8% after taxes (which are currently 50% of income).
54.       The project could face some risks because of the lack of available
trained management staff and the general shortage of skilled labor in the country.
However, the involvement of experienced international firms in project imple-
mentation and initial operations of the project as well as the training provisions
under the project are expected to minimize such risks. The technical risk in the
project is minimal since the technology used is a proven one which has been in
commercial use since the 1960s. The market risk is also minimal since the pro-
posed project is favorably located with respect to the market area, and the
project's output is expected to be easily absorbed by the market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania and
the Bank, the draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, and the draft Project Agreement among the Bank,
the Association, Morogoro Polyester Textiles Limited and the National Textile
Corporation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Also
being distributed separately are the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
56.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness include execution of the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania and Morogoro
Polyester Textiles Limited, effectiveness of cofinancing agreements, and appoint-
ment of the Technical Management, Project Advisory and Project Engineering Firms
(Sections 5.01(a), (c), and (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and the proposed Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan
and Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
June 14, 1978



-  20 -                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                -------------------------------------------------
_______________                                 TANZANIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      945.1                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     508.3                       1960      1970   ESTIMATE          KENYA        KOREA REP. OF  MALAYSIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     60.0*/a 100.0*/a 180.0*/a              140.0*     280.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
___________ __________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           9,B/a    12.9/a   15.1/a                11.2       32.2        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      10.0       14.0      16.0               19.0       327.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       20.0       26.0      1l.O              113.0      1371.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)        51.5       50.5      47.0               49.0        35.0        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)         2?.1       23.0      20.1               17.0        11.4        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      190.0   160-165/b                 ..             ..             4O.B/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)      36.7       41.8  -   44.5               49.1        65.0       56.7 -
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..        3.2       3.2                3.4         2.6         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 3(2.3/aX30/a)2.7/
TOTAL                                     _
URBAN                                2.3 /a    3.0 /a    2.7/a               3.1         2.3         2.9
URBAN POPUL                          5.0        5.6 -    7.5/b               6.3         6.4         3.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          4.6        5.5/b   7.3                  9.9        41.2        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      42 ____444/
05 TO 64 YEARS                     4./    4.4b             ..48.4                      42.1        44.7 /a
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.5/a b 53.0/b        *-               48.0        54.5       52.1 /a
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.0/  b  2.6/b        *-                3.6         3.4            /a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0,8/       n.g/b                                    0.8         0.9/B
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.t/      o 1.2 /b    .*                '/a        1.4         1.6/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          ..         ..        ..               66.1      4424.7      222.2/a
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            .-         ..        ..                 ..        42.0        8.2 /a
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        4900.0/d 5600.0/ab6300.0/c              5100.0/b  10200.0      3600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)                                              51.0 '    91.0/j   83.1  900-0b  50.4/a  49.5
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)               .              1e 0 /c  6..0a   4.5 1                      7.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       33.5        ..               20.2IC      17.1       28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..       63.3        *.               52.6/C      44.5       56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        2.3        ..                3.9 /       7.1        3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        7.3        ..                3    _/c   17.        11.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
__________________-__ _______-
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                ..        28.0
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..         ..                ..         2.0
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21750.0ae 21570.0/a  20760.0/a,e         7830.0/d   2110.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       9240.Oaef 4890.0 ia  3180.0 /a          1470.0/i   2170.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          570.07/e 70010/a         *-             770.0             b 1900.0  27o/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)        69.0    88.0         86.               1010        103.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             42.0       43.0      47.               11.0        10.0        110/0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0/      4 23.0    20.0               29.0        19.0       20.0/b
DEATH RATE U/THOU) AGES 1-4             ..         ..         ..                1.9       1.           4.4
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      24.0       35.0      57.0               64.0       104.0       89.0 /a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     2.0        3.0       3.0                9.0 /e    41.0         34.0 /a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                          -                      -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            13.0       13.0      13.0               13.0        12.0       13.0 /a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                                                                                       -
(% OF SECONDARY)                    23.0         ..        ..                2.0 /e    16.0         3.0 /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                1-.0        ..      49 0/c             30.0        87.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.8 /h     ..         ..                 ..        2.7
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                 -                                                               -
PIPED WATER (%)
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                    .       30.o/bd                                  80.0 /C    65 .0/
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 ..       50.0        43-0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (x)                     ..        ..         ..                 ..       30.0        30.0/a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          2.0      11.0       16.0               48.0      126.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       3.0        3.0                9.0        2.0        27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           16.0/a    31:0/a    43.0/a              68.0       307.0      382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1/e     0.1        0.1                0.5         3.5        4.0
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 21 -
ANNE I
NOTES
Unles  otherwise noted, data for 1960 rafer to any year batw.n 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and  Mil and for the Moot Recent Eatimate between
1973 and 1976.
o   GNP per topita datn  are bened on World BSank Atlas methodology (1974-76 bhris).
00 Malaynia has been selecied as an objective country because its population is corparable in siae ond its aconanic developmeent ia several stepa
ahead of Tonesnis.
TANZANIA             1960        Mainland Tanzania;    /b  1957, African populatien only;   oraltio of  polation ondar 15 and 65 and ovr to total
labor force;    Id  1 963;    I.  1962;    /f  Registered, not all preoticing in the ocontry;    /j  1961-63;
li 1958, Zaneibaf only.
1970    Ia  Moinland Tansanis;    /b  1967;   /c  1965;    /d  As percentage of urban houoeholds.
MOST RECENT EST7IATE:    /s  Mainland Tans-oia          /b  1967-73;    /c  1972;    Id  Urban;    /  Including asoistent medical
officers.
KENYA               1970    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 snd 65 snd over to lsbor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 ynaen;
/I  Urban;    /d  Registered, not all practicing in the. country;    /t  Total ancondary Includes teacher training
st the third level.
KOREA REP< OF        1970    /a  As percentage of omployMnt;   /b  Registered, not a11 practicing in the country;    /  Water piped ins ide.
MALAYSIA             1970    Ia  West Malsyis;    /b  Registered applicants for work;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped water inside only.
R12, April 7, 1978
DR5T5lOl   Or SOCIAL INDICATORS
Lend Area (thon be2)                                                                      lnnuletiom Per nreina porcor - Population dioldad by otanber of pr-ctIcing
Total - Total surface area copriaing land  ros   d inland  aters,                           male and fale graduate nurses, "toind" or "crtified" nrses, and
Agic. - Most recent estimate of agricultural are  used toooporanily or parne-               atailiory prseoneal with training or amperienca.
meetly for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardns or tE Ite fellow.                   Poelation par hesDital bed - Population divided by m,bsr of hospital bade
avilable in public end priv te general and *pacieliead hoapital and
GNP per .apit. (US3) - tNP par capita stimasts  t current market pricee,                    rehebilitation centers; eludn nur-ing homes sod  stahblishmlnta for
calculated by -aes conversion oethod *a World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basi);                  custodial end preventive cor.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                               Per ctaitrs suply of calories (% of reeqirementa) - Computed from energy
quivalant of n t food supplies available in country per capIta per day;
Population and vital rs.tietic                                                               vailable cupplies comprian domestic production, Imports Iesa emparte, snd
population (mid-year million)   AN of July firat:  if not avilabla, averag                  changes in stock; nmt eupplies e.tlude oebsal foed, esede, quantIties used
of two end-year escia,tsn; 1160, 1970 and 1975 data,                                      in food procassing and losee in diatrhbution; requremants wars estimated
by P.A0 becad on phyalologic-1 macde for nenmal activity and health conid-
Pooclatin density - par  quer he - Mid-yae ppultion par squara kilometr                     erig environmetal temprature, body weights, ae  and .eo distribution  of
(105 hcoe)o   totl ae,PoPulation, end  l11wissg 10% for waste at houseold level.
Population density - oar nocarn he of *tin, land - Computed a  shove for                  Per oseita  unoly of protein are  cDr day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultursl land only.                                                                   mt supply of food per day; met supply of food is defined .c ebove; requiro -
mts for a11  -ountris  etablished by UWDA teonomic Rseareh Sareices
Vital rtstiatios                                                                            provide for a ninino= al.owanca of 60 gro   of tet.l protein per day, -nd
Crude birth rat- coo thownd. avera    - Annual live birth. per thousnd of                   20 groe  of anitml snd pulse protein, of which 10 gr     should b  animal
mid-year popultion;  te-y       rtit  avra, .ges  ndig in 1960  nd 1970,                  protein; these standards  re loner them those of 75  re   of totel protein
and five-year  err-Sg  ending in 1975 for mt recent estimate,                             and 23 groa  of animll  protein as an average for the world, propo-ed by FAD
Crude death rate -ar ihodand. oversee - Anu  deaths per thocand of mid-year                 in the Third World Food Surey.
population; tee-year aritltntic avt rge% ending itn lfO and 1970 cod five-              Per caEts  rotoin euelIv frtc animal end Puls  - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimat.                                      derived from  nimals  nd pulees i  grfo    per day.
Infant nortality rein C/thou) - Anusl deaths of ifante coder one year of ag               Death rats  (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per tho-eand in ga   grcop 1-4
per thousand lIve birth.                                                                  years, tn children in this age group; ungge-t-d cc an indiotor of
Life empooctocy at birth (yre) - Average  usber of years of life resining at                malnutrition.
birth;  uully five-year avrages  ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for deavlop-
ing countrieas                                                                          Educ-tion
Irn ,epoution rate - Average otabar of live danghters a wosm an -11beer               Ado_ederlmettEm-itmacgahol-Erlenofllasacp-
in her noorul reproductive Period if she emperieneea  present ag-specific                  ata o  pr r   s                p       ;   includes ohildrm  agd 6-11 yeare
fertility rate"; usually five-year averagen ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                 but adjusted for different lengthu of primary educatiom; for countries with
for developing coutries,                                                                  univrersal eduction, enrolla t may exceed 100. since som  pupila ar  e hlo
population gr_ct, rate Ct) - total - Compound *nnual growth raet  of mid-year               or sove the officIal schol  age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75                                             0dloetad enrollm t ratio - secondary school - Computed as sbove; aecond-ry
PopulatIon Kroth rate (7t) - urban - Computd like gro-th rats of total                      education requires at leat four year of approved primary instruction;
population; different defin-tiow  of urban areas may affect goaparehility of              provides gennoal, vocational or te..her tr-ising im tructiotu for pupils
data amn     -cutrie,                                                                    of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence cu--  are gene.rally neclded.
hrban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different             Y .ea  of  fcholimd provid d ifirtP and secondlevel) - Total Yerst  of
definitions of urban areas   y offset conpar-bility Of data among countries               schooling; at secondary levl, vocationl inutruction mey be partially or
completely ecluded.
ARe utrurtord (6peront) - Children (0-14 y.ar.), working-ago (15-64 yearn),               vunatiooal enrolLment (% of secondary) - Voc-tional ic-titution  Include
And rocirod  (6)   a   an dovoe) as porotntgner of mid-yanr opursto.                      tochoical, industrial or other progras which operate independently or as
Axe deenod-ey ra tic - ERlei of population under 15 and 65 and cone to those                dspartsents of secodary institutions.
of ages 15 throhgh 64.                                                                  Adulr    rai  (7) - Literate adults (able cc rd and write) as Pe-
Economic depnodencv ratio - RStic of population under IS snd 65 sod over to                 centage of total adult popu;ltion adUi 15 years tad over.
tho labor force in age group of 15-64 year--
fanily planoiso - accooore Cctmulative, thou) - Cuanlativo onhber of acceptors             !ou. ing
of birth-control devices under auspice  of national fanily planning progrm              Pna pepr room (urban) - Average ninher of persons per room in oncupied
since  = inception                                                                        conv entioru7    dwellings   in  urban   er.e.;  d wellings    oxclude  non-pe. na eont
*              too~Femlly plsnic--esC   fmridwmn      ecn a  of maried women or                             atructura and unoocpled parts.
child-bearing age (i5-44 years) who one birth-control devices to all married             Ccuied dwellings withont minDhd wate   or -r). 1Occupied    -oaerion1 dwelIngs
cmoic  an  age group,                                                                  to orban and rute1 areas without inierotside piped water facilities
saoc erg  of all uncupied duellinge.
osoloymect                                                                                 Acasa      1 torle icit   lo   l dwllins    Canveorlo-al dwollloge with
Tutor labo force(thousand) - co ticely active perous, including aned                    eetricity in living quarter  as Percet of total dwielings in  rba   and
forces and uneployed hat eoluding hooni-e, students, sic.; dafisitione                    rualaras
n variou  countois are not co-psrabl-.                                                  Rural dweiling  onnnoosd to electricity (    - Computed as sa-ve for rural
Labor orsin            t-iolneZ(.  - Ogricotoallbor force (in forming, forestry,             dwellings oly.
huntoosad fishing) as por-tange of total labor fo.e.
Unemployed (%. of labor force) - Unemployed ore usarlly defined  s persons who             Coneunption
are able and wiling totke  -Job,ant of alob ona  iven day, remained out                  Radio rcIvers C entthon on    - All type  nO r..ceivace far sdc        .. hod-aer
of a job,   snd seking  ork f or a  p cified minimm priod not .e   ding one                t g        public per thonsadof pop tion; sac.lude  onlicesd rectivers
cook; may nor he comparble between countries dm   to different definirfona                 in countries and in. yosrs when registration of radio ante was in effect;
of uomployed and acorns of dare,te.g;. eployment office statis tics, sample                data  for recent years  may not he cmparable simon   moat countriea  boliahed
aurveya,  cmusoyuep loyment marane                                                         licensilog.
Pasenn rteaCo!      bcen   -          Pa...enger  oars comprise motor  cer.  seating
r    diterihuctn -f rcte  o  private ino                  (both in c ah ahd kind)          la  th   eight Peren  b; sllude   ehlecee c hr he are   admilitery
received by rioheat  57., riohoet  20, poor..ct207., sod poorest 407. of house-            vehicle..
hold..                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/yr oar cap) - Annual coneomption of Indutrial, c  aertial,
Di.trib,tion  -f  I..d  two,or                                           o~~~~~pubic  nd prpivate electricity in kilowatt honre per c.ptt., gene rally
Diatribution of land nwnerahi_ - Percentagna of land onwed by wealthiest 101                 base  ond prdciton daota,  ithout kilesouce for    e tsI  grids but ao-
sod poorest 10% of land somrs.                                                             img for imports chd emprte  felcriiy
t* tNprint Cho/yr per can) - Per capita annual consomption in kilagreas
SnaL1h ad Nutrition                                                                          estimatod from donmestic production plus mat imports of neseapeior.
PpUlton   r phyaiciao   - Population divided by  -uaber of practicing
physicians qualified from a mdical school at univeraity level.



-22 
ANNEX 1
p:(lC 00VCU7tt27T D4AU 2001
Ccawt7s P teS b 74
P-J..tod                       1968-       ~~~~~~1999.7.  190.      1.974o
1w4   975   fiN        1171                        7     t1919  1980    1963        12g         17'3        1980        19. 6-        e
4. 7aOs   eObT
041111.9 Us9. 1 769Z-76 rrte.-l
1. G17                                          2384.2    2146.8        2612.2       2737.9      2716.1      3026.9      21831       4107.2      37.8           3.1         3.1         .2        160.8
2. C-lJ ftt  Th.  .t T..d. (To?7                   74.9      -68.7         29.8       109.0        23.0        -8.2       -U.2       -102.1      -16.1           .           .                     .1
3. 04.. ro.e91       7                          7439.1      2378.1      2582.4       28U4.6      28n. 1      3018.7      31UO.J      4005.1      2163.8         4.8         3.3         3.0        St.9
.  fv..t. ez                                     911.1        756.2       612.0       743.7       790.7       808.1       837.7       996.4       1190.2        3.6         4.0         3.2        22.2
2.  o4potn. _ V        ...                       470.0       507.1        537.7       093.6       174.4       394.7       620.3       711.2       1041.1        0.1         3.8         4.8        18.3
*. t;rprt. - 7T *dJ.oVd 34.9                                 439.2       567.5        662.3       597.5         5 6.3     578.0       686.4       873.0        -0.1       .4.4          2.5       1U.4
7. *R0r-... UP - 7T  dJ.ut.d                     364.2       317.0        114.5        61.1       183.3       222.2       259.7       310.0       315.3          .           ..9
8.  0.0.3  Crtttn                                1318.0      2176.1      2200.1      2383.4      2U1I.4      2526.4      2722.8      3421.6      4214.1         3.7         *.5         4.7        80.
S.  299.9904999                                   207.3       219.0       334.4       544n4       601.0       654.5       677.8       893.5      1185.0         6.0         .8          3.7        22.3
10.  8.I-tneu  S..ant                             U193.3       2en60      358.9        528.5       492nS       514.9       503         664.8       94S.8       -0.8        -1.4          3.7        11.2
11. CDc t Sc           1u1.1                                  202.0       302.3       43.2         617.        432.3       418.1       583.5       869.7       -0.7         .2.)         8.9        16.
7.2. CrP *t Cuo t to c US1 92244.                            2553.6      2704.t       3   .      3543.9       4328.3      4870.1      8814.1     16043.0
8 .                                                                                  .010OY77
(38.   t O  10 974-76 PrL9.9)
flS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. CT17                                                16. 1CU TP17
1.  139671.                                                    10.8         00..8      14.0        18.3        14.7        17.1        19.5        22.8         8.0         1.7         8.0
2.  MnI.s.Io...                                   38.0         40.2        40.0        39.3        38.4        37.8        37.3        34.3        31.4         2.4         3.3         3.5
3.  k99Il..                                       44.0        44.0         44.7                    431         43.3        43.6        4.2         46.3         5.8         3.8         3.3
C. 711   (1976476 * 100)
1. Up.rt 941. Id..                               9t.1        90.7       112.6        127.2       129.3       132.4       122.0       177.9       242.1          .        -8.3         4.4
2.  39890  9419 -2nd..                            85.5       104.9       106.7        114.6       124.3       134.3       144.        204.3       288.0 o.1                             7.1
2. COs .t 7.d. Itdex                              112.0       86.3       102.2        119.7       104.0        98.6        93.2        *7.1        44.0
4. 007 l.f7.n..1045)                               94.1      103.5        103.6       123.6       137.1       1613.0      11.0        214.6       301.0                     7.3         7.0
5. A.-9.$. 7htb n-t    (b to s211.005)            7.U43      7.414       8.319
186s-n2     1974-?6     1977-60     19g1-90
*- 8CUCTE1D 111471CATO
1.  2CO0                                           3.8         4.3         4.          4.1
2.  2npert 11*Cia9 7                                1.J       -2.4          1.1         0.7
3. AvCr-g. 36996  5-1 o1. 041  1/                  15.5        S             7  4.t     4.S
4. Avero*8  9.11n.l 59.19;. 0499 2t                15.2        10.S        17.         18.6
S. Il rginl Netinn  S-~ vi ltg                     o.l         0.2        -0.1         0.
*.  1989tn.GoP                                    28.3        31.7        26.t         24.1
7.   n.t..t/CvP                                    18.7 '      1.3        20.9         21.8
O. k.9..o.. 04P/Q11                                22         10.9          6.2         7.4
t. 1b..  7,.o.                                                       3.8
2.  abplo7y-.  tl 8..)                                            100.0
2.1 Ap191t590.                                                      81.0
2.2 3,dd..toy                                                        2.D
2.3 2.9.19..                                                         7.8
M.nvLIC *MWI I/                                                                                                                        7bn.
0411t1. t3illt.z)                              1U3815        MM0/71   1971/72     1972/72     1973/74     1974/75     1975/76     1976/77
i. Osrret4t 1eo                                  714        1683        1839        2327        3023        30946       311         4762
. I . T0.....                                    602         364        1431        1927        2608        3161        3302        4163
C. 0.90.44 197998009.9 7t07                                 1641        1781         2223       2783        3961        3716        4400
7.1 C-19..1 Ad9d..L.C.t.                         2t7         533         364         149         844        1321         1127
3. Cnv-C9 1n -9. S                                            32          78          134        238         -13         203         34
4.  or.n..  Cr-nt                                  ..         .           3            2         114          377         643        160
S.  .pl- A4.11*019.. f     1- ftjn1
Dv.v I           dt t d-                     ..         32         117          196        432          362        848        2022
8.  04e..lop-.nt 1:7.9dLtrC..                    238     1 89            8           956         1642        2223       2253        2709
= Or11  .f1.t1t                                             X-837       .747         -O10       -           -1863        1405       .687
8.119*no.A& .f Lb.9 Df.01t
i0t9.1 I. 73 3                                         270         347         456         647          41           .
.9 t.                                     ..         254         254         269         34          452.,
0.990t-0.m                                           3U          144          33         372         720
V  e_l5rstffi * r-I.:             Of C".. Da_ti Ine_.
.  8.tt1.1 - .ln*-*-   P...0.t-t. *t Cro-a  -14   1 Lso _.                                                                                                                    U3-
C -C99.    .inin0                                                                                                                                                           C.m.q  . 1u



-23 -                                           ANNEX 1
1AWLIA
MIWC 0o  PAYMmTS AND tXTMNAL ASSISIAhC!
(Hillion US $)
1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979        1980        1a85        19"
A. jP9lAY  OF SALANCE OF PAYM  _I
1.  ptports (incl. NFs)                                     465.9       460.7        605.5       759.7       742.7       787.8        831.3      1402.9      2520.9
2. Imports (incl. NFS)                                      77.0         793.5       727.9       852.8       970.5      1086.3       1213.5      2036.1      3429.2
3. Resource Slance                                         -313.1      -332.8       -122.4        93.0       227.8       298.5       -376.2       633.7      -9OS 3
4. Not Fector Serviee Incone                                 -$.8        -10.3       -24.6       -21.1       -18.7       -21.0       -27.3        -75.3      -143.8
1. net interest paymnts of which                        -13.6       -16.1       -18.6       -16.1        -13.7       -16.0       *22.3        *65.3      -133.S
Interest an Public M & LT Lona                    (4.5)      (-11.1)     (-12.5)      (-15.1)     (-17.6)     (-20.2)     (-27.7)      (-79.1)   (-161.9)
2. Direct Investsent Income                              (            (          (           C           C            (           (          C
3. Vork&rs Rsittane. (Net)                               (4.8        (5.6        (-5.8       (-5.0       (-5.0        (S.0        (..0      (-10.0      (-10.0
4. Other factor Serviceome(IbC)                           (           C          C           C           C            C           (          ( (
5. Current Ttenxfers (Yet)                                   30.1        71.0         77.9        94.9       110.4       U9.4         147.9       235.6       362.5
S.  sla nce on Orrent Accoumt                              -291.8      -272.1       -69.1       -19.2       -136.1      -190.1      -255.7      -473.4      -689.6
7. Privete Direct Investtnt                                  24.5        27.5         12.3        20.0        20.0        24.0        26.0         35.0        35.0
Public H & LT Loans
8. Disbursements 1/                                         143.1       229.9        116.8       215.8       187.2       271.6       315.5       528.2        88.7
9. Amortization  lt                                         -14.9       -15.3       -15.3       -26.5       -27.3        -28.2       -41.4       -5115
10. Net Oisbursements I/                                      5          214.6       10.5       189.3        159.9       243.4       274T        477 2       717.2
Other H & LI Loans
11. Disbursenents 2/                             .            18.2        19.9         11.6         7.2         4.7         1.2         0.6          0.0         0.0
12. Anortiz-tion  2/                                          -3.0        -3.2        -_.2         -7.1        -5          -5.2        -5           -5.3         0.0
13. get Disbursemaents 2/                                     1           16.7         5                         .4        -     4.0      9          .3 
14. De of VW Resources 3/                                     46.3        28.6         24.3       -24.4        -9.0       -39.0       -20.3          0.0         8.0
15. Short-term Capital Trasactiens                            24.1         *3.0      -18.9          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
16.  apital Trnsactions, n.e.i.                              -31.4       -54.0       -31.2          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
17. Ohoge ifn Reserves (- - increas)                          84.6        38.7       -24.2      -165.8       -34.4        -34.3       -21.2       -33.5       -36.8
S.  RANTS AND LOANS CGMIIENTT
1. Official Crant                                           100.0       187.9       123.7
2. Tetal Public H 6 LT loan                                 260.4       152.3        183.0
2.1  1D56                                                65.0        30.0         37.0
2.2  IDA                                                 41.2        10.0         52.0
2.3  Other tultilateral                                   7.1        18.0         5.0
2.4  Covertments                                        127.1        94.3         77.3
of which centrally planned econies  /             76.5         5.4
2.5  Suppliers
2.6  Financial Institutions                                -           -         11.7
2.7 ands
2.8 Public Lonsa. n.G.i.
3. Other K A Lt Loas (wttre *vailable)5t                      3.8         2.9         6.0
C.  H AM!j. ITllS
1. Crant Element of Total Comaitnts                          63.5        69.6        71.3
2. Average Interest (Percent)                                 2.2         3.5         3.3
3. Average Noturity (CYers)                                  32          42          36
11  lncludea financing of projected balance of payents deficit (1977-1990) on 501 Sank/507. IDA terms.
2/ Disburseaent *nd repayment of Bank loan  for EAC projects of which T aanis- share is a notional 40 percent.
Jt Net of 'Draving" and "Reparn=t by Purchase".
I includes CHA countries. People's Republic of Othin. worth Korea. Socialist Republic of Vistv_.
Repesenct    not.ional 40 percent of Baek leane for E6C prejects.
LA
Cr1-A
Jaauey 5. 1974



- 24 -                                       ANNEX 1
VN4ANIA
DflT AND CREDITWiORTHINESS Y/
Actual
1974        1975         1976
A. HEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT  (Disbursed Only)
1. Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)l/                  697.7        923.7      1030.7
2.  Including Undisbursed                                        1255.4       138S.6      1544. 6
3.  Public Debt Service                                            23.5         26.5        22:8
1.  Interest                                                  8.6         11.2        12.5
4. Other M b LT Debt Service 2/                                     8.1          8.2         U.4
3. DEBT BURDEN 1/
1. Debt Service Ratio                                               6.S          7.5         6.7
2. Debt Service/CDP                                                  1.4         1.4          1.5
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                          6.5          6.5          7.8
C. TERMS
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                 2.1          1.9         1.8
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                    4.9          4.0         3.9
D. DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M & LT DEBT 1/
1. Oross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                         20.7         31.5        17.6
2. Net Transfer/Imports (inl. NFS)                                 16.3         22.2        10.5
3. Jet Transfer/Cross Disbursements                                68.9         89 .8       83.3
E. EXPOSURE I/
I.  IbRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                   10.3        21.0         14.7
2. Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursemaents             14.0         28.1        36.8
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                             12.9         15.3        15.3
4. Bank Croup DOD/Total DOD                                        22.0         24.0        25.9
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                           20.9         26.2        32.3
6. Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      23.1         28.2        34.7
Outstanding Dec. 31. 1976
Amount      Percent
(US $ million)
F. EXTERNAL DEBT (Disbursed Only)
1.  rBD                                                                         90.1         9.9
2. Bank Group                                                                  108.9        11.9
3.  other Multilateral                                                          18.1         2.0
4.  Covernments                                                                655.8        71.8
of which Centrally Planned Economies 3/                                 292.5         32.0
5.  Suppliers                                                                   22.2         2.4
6. Financial Institutions                                                        8.2         0.9
7. Bonds                                                                         3.4         0.4
S. Public Debt n.e.i.                                                            7.1         0.8
9.  Total Public N & LT Debt                                                   913.8       100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 1/                                                       116.9        12.8
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                     1414.0       154.7
12.  Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed) 1/                                 1544.6        169.0
1/ lncludes a notional 40 percent share of loans to the EAC.
21 Represents a notional 40 percent share of debt service on loan to the EAC.
l/ Includes CLEA countries, People's Fepublic of Cihna. North Korea. Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
EN. CPI-A
January S. 1978



-25-                              ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TAN7ANIA -
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF APRIL 30, 1978
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.         Year    Borrower            Purpose                      Bade_/ TW   IDA!/ Undisbursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                        70.2          90.8
586-TA      1969    Tanzania    Roads                                 7.0                    1.4
287-TA      1972    Tanzania    Smallholder Tea                                    10.8      2.0
371-TA      1973    Tanzania    Education                                          10.3      4.5
382-TA 2/  1973    Tanzania    Livestock                                           18.5      6.1
454-TA      1974    Tanzania    Cotton                                             17.5    13.1
460-TA      1974    Tanzania    Tanzania Investment Bank                            6.0      1.0
1014-TA      1974    Tanzania    Cashewnut                            21.0                    8.2
495-TA      1974    Tanzania    Sites and Services                                  8.5      3.4
507-TA      1974    Tanzania    Highway Maintenance                                10.2       5.5
508-TA      1974    Tanzania    Rural Development                                  10.0      7.0
1041-TA      1974    Tanzania    Sugar                                 9.0                    2.6
580-TA      1975    Tanzania    Dairy                                              10.0      7.2
1128-TA      1975    Tanzania    Textile                              15.0                    4.5
1172-TA      1975    TIB           Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                    6.0
601-TA      1976    Tanzania    Technical Assistance                                6.0      5.5
606-TA      1976    Tanzania    National Maize Program                             18.0    14.2
607-TA      1976    Tanzania    Education                                          11.0      9.6
1306T-TA      1976    Tanzania    Power                                       30.0            26.1
1307-TA      1976    Tanzania    Forestry                              7.0                    6.2
652-TA      1976    Tanzania    Fisheries                                           9.0      8.8
658-TA      1976    Tanzania    Tobacco Processing                                  8.0      4.5
1354-TA      1977    Tanzania    Urban Water Supply                   15.0                   14.7
1385T-TA      1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex                 11.5            10.9
1386-TA      1977    Tanzania    Morogoro Industrial Complex          11.5                   10.9
703-TA 3/  1977    Tanzania    Rural Development (Tabora)                           7.2      6.8
732-TA      1977    Tanzania    Second Sites and Services                          12.0    12.0
743-TA      1977    Tanzania    Trucking                                           15.0    15.0
1498-TA      1977    TIB           Tanzania Investment Bank           15.0                   15.0
TOTAL                                                   185.7  41.5 278.8   232.7
of which has been repaid                                3.7   -        6.8
Total now outstanding                                   182.0 41.5 272.0
Amount sold                         0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA-t                        182.0  41.5  272.0
Total undisbursed                                        69.5  37.0  126.2  232.7
1/  Net of exchange adjustments.
2/  Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million has been disbursed.
3/  Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.



-26-
ANNEX 1I
B. SUJMMARY STATEMENT OF BANYK LOANS FOR COMM1ON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF APRIL 30, 1978
US$ Million
Loan                                                        Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year    Borrower     Purpose                       Bankl/           Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                  93.4
638-EA   1969    EAIIC        Harbours                      35.0                1.3
674-EA   1970    EARC         Railways                      42.4                3.7
865-EA   1972    EAHC         Harbours                      26.5                1.3
914-EA   1973    EAPTC        Telecommunications            32.5                5.6
1204-EA   1976    EADB         Development Finance           15.0                9.7
Total                                      244.8               21.6
of which has been repaid                  42.8
Total now outstanding                      202.0
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid   24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank                     202.0
Total undisbursed                           21.6               21.6
1/ Net of exclhange adjustments.



-27-
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
(As of April 30, 1978)
There are currently 27 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improvement in
the control over field activities. However, the position with regard to
field staff will continue to be closely watched. Because of weak extension
and farm practices in the past, about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since
1971 must be infilled or rehabilitated, and yields have been lower than
anticipated. No additional planting has been carried out since June 1976
but effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the
Bukoba area. Bank recommendations regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are now
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. Progress on the project is expected to continue to improve. The
closing date may require a further extension to allow sufficient time for
completion of the Mwakaleli factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976. Since the review, significant progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO). However, TPL needs to improve its overall efficiency,
and NARCO's financial situation is unsatisfactory. A financing proposal for
NARCO is currently being prepared for presentation to Treasury and the two
financing institutions (TRDB and NBC) in order to return NARCO to financial
viability. The village livestock development component continues to have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-28-                          ANNEX II
the same organizational problems evident during the review and the seriousness
of the situation has been recognized by the Prime Minister's Office. In
summary, significant progress has been made since the review but major problems
remain and require continued attention.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project is much improved since the appointment in October
1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure of the
crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project
rather than an agricultural production project. A major objective is
now to develop a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy.
*The most significant progress has been in the trials program with about
50 well distributed and supervised trial sites. Recruitment of staff
has been more vigorously pursued since the Implementation Reviews began.
The major project problems remaining are: the lack of senior staff, the
shortage of extension staff, the inefficient use of tractors, and the
delay in producing accounts. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
million L6an of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is
proceeding in accordance with the revised completion schedule which is about
nine months behind the appraisal estimate. Processing plant and machinery has
been delivered for two factories, and is under shipment for the remaining
three factories. The Cashewnut Authority (CATA) take over of the industry
and the consolidation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its
management capabilities are limited. Therefore, while the Government's
consultants have effectively supervised construction and the project
includes provision of technical assistance for factory operation, the
development of CATA is important to future progress and is receiving close
attention.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The village infrastructure construction program has been retarded
by the reappearance of national shortages of key construction materials and
by problems relating to management of materials distribution within the region.



-29-
ANNEX II
The level of credit repayment by farmers taking seasonal inputs from village
godowns stands at approximately 84%, despite poor yields of cotton (the main
cash crop) in many project villages during the past crop season. Maize and
bean yields obtained in the past season were good and food crop purchases in
the region by the National Milling Corporation were more than double last
year's record levels. A good start has been made on the program of Agri-
cultural Training and Trials Center and village trials for this season, and
a review of the project's technical strategy is underway. A Joint-Mid-Term
Evaluation of the project is proposed for July-August 1978.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The development of estate cane plantations has been completed.
Kilombero Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers
continues and is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than
expected cane yields. The inability of the transport system to supply cane
to both factories is a serious constraint to sugar production. The operations
of the new management advisory agreement show some weaknesses, mainly becaus^'
Tanzanian senior staff could not be found to fill the line positions vacated
by expatriates. Draft accounts for FY77 are under preparation. After heavy
losses in 1977, mostly due to difficulties in starting operations of the new
factory, KSC is expected to break-even in the following season. The Sugar
Development Corporation has requested Finance to consider KSC's proposals as
to the debt-equity ratio under the project and the terms of the Government
loans. A decision on this matter is expected soon.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
With the change in TAFICO's management in August 1977, the project
appears to be progressing satisfactorily after the initial delay in imple-
mentation. All formalities with regard to the establishing of the commercial
centers both for the coastal fisheries and Lake Tanganyika have been completed,
and steps have been initiated for the construction of boats and procurement
of engines and fishing gear. In addition, four Ujamaa villages have been
identified for investment under the Ujamaa Pilot Fisheries Program. It is
expected that active fishing operations in all cases should begin before the
end of 1978.



-30-                      ANNEX II
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with
regard to village participation, delivery of inputs, and concentration on
high potential maize regions, at its mid-term it is beset by a number of
problems which must be overcome if the project is to achieve its primary
objective. The project's extension services are seriously understaffed,
and the deficiencies of extension services and the Government's continued
indecision on its reorganization are constraints affecting project imple-
mentation. Motorcycles and landrovers delivered to the Regions have greatly
increased mobility of supervisory staff; however, other essential equipment
.and aids will not be available before mid-1978 because of considerable pro-
curement and administrative delays. Farmers' contributions to the financing
of project inputs vary from Region to Region; in areas of high maize potential
about 80% of the inputs have been distributed in the agreed manner, but in
the remaining Regions contributions have ranged from 13% to 42%. A recent
decrease in the subsidy element from 75% to 50% for all inputs has doubled
the cost to the farmers of fertilizer. Many of the difficulties experienced
result from limited cooperation between the central ministry responsible
for the overall project and the regional authorities in charge of local
implementation. Proposals to improve project implementation by modifying
authority for input financing and by increasing regional responsibility for
assessing, ordering and distributing input requirements are under preparation.
Another problem is the tendency for villages to place undue emphasis on mono-
culture of maize production. A joint RMEA/Headquarters mission recently
reviewed the above difficulties and its recommendations have been submitted
to the Government for consideration.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
Development of the parastatal dairy farms continues to be ahead
of schedule and the loan security/occupancy rights problems have been
resolved for most farms. A shortage of suitable cattle and lack of milk
pasteurizing facilities at Mbeya are imminent problems. The Ujamaa component
proceeds slowly and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investi-
gating alternative means of assisting village milk production and consumption.
The foot and mouth disease control investigation has commenced.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976,; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project, which is a five-year slice of the Government pulpwood
plantation program of about 65,000 ha of Pine and Eucalyptus provides for the
planting of 'almost 16,000 ha, as well as the maintenance of 10,000 ha of
existing plantations, the developing of infrastructure, research, training



-31-                          ANNEX II
and studies. The project got off to a slow start and with serious management
problems. The Project Manager and several section chiefs had to be replaced
in July 1977, and the key post of Roads/Mechanical Engineer is still unfilled.
The first year's plantings mostly failed and practically all targets are behind
schedule. However, under new management the situation has improved considerably.
The nurseries are well stocked and maintained, and the current planting program
should be on schedule. The Engineer post is due to be filled shortly, and the
project should catch up with all arrears over the next year or two.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed in April 1978, a
year behind schedule. The delay did not interfere with processing, as the
crop was only 14.5 m kg against an estimated 20 m kg. Equipment for the new
line is arriving and the line will be operative by April 1979 when factory
capacity will be about 40 m kg against probable production of 20-26 m kg.
Efforts will therefore be made to step up production during the 1978/79
season to ensure a good factory throughput in 1979. Building work at Morogoro
is proceeding satisfactorily but considerable rectification is required at
Dar es Salaam and the railway siding has still to be designed. TAT/TTPC are
preparing a properly coordinated building program to cover the balance of the
project, and proposals are awaited from the Treasury rationalising the financial
and functional responsibilities of these entities. The study of TAT's financial
system will commence as soon as the cholera quarantine is relaxed and TAT have
been requested to employ a Systems Accountant without further delay. The
Tobacco Sector Study is scheduled to commence July 1978. TTPC's accounts for
1976/77 have been audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA/Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabo a Rural
Development Project: $12.0 million Creditsu of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The project became effective on November 11, 1977. Key staff
have been assigned. Satisfactory progress is being made on construction
of staff housing and procurement of vehicles is in an advanced stage. The
regional authorities are actively engaged in preparing a detailed work
program for each component. Project implementation is on schedule.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 ($4.8 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of $7.2 million.



ANNEX II
-32-
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The project is being implemented with assistance from DANIDA.
Projected estimates of project cost overruns have been reduced within
manageable limits as a result of curtailments of the project (deletion of
three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated bids on civil
works. Civil works contracts have been awarded on all project institutions
and construction is proceeding on 12 of 15 sites. Substantial improvements
have been achieved in program planning for Community Education Centers (the
experimental self-help construction project item), and two of these centers
are now in operation. Recruitment of technical assistance specialists in
health included in the project has been slow but arrangements have now been
made with WHO to recruit these specialists. Disbursements are now 50% of
appraisal estimates, and implementation is, in general, proceeding satis-
factorily. It is likely that the closing date will require a postponement
of one year.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
The project made a good start with respect to the Village Manage-
ment Technicians (VMT) Training Program. However, some problems have emerged
with respect to the utilization of the VMTs. Five Rural Training Centers
have been rehabilitated, instructional staff have been trained, and courses
have commenced. Expansion of the capacity of 15 secondary schools is slightly
ahead of schedule. A contract has been signed with UNESCO to assist in
conducting a secondary school survey. Proposals for a survey of primary edu-
cation and a review of standards of accountancy training are being prepared.
Construction of housing is behind schedule, but total project costs are so
far within the original estimate and the project should be completed by the
closing date.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:- $6.5
million Credit of August 6, 1971; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The contract for the road construction component of this project
was signed in March 1974, two years later than scheduled and at a cost much
higher than estimated. The Bank reduced the primary road construction
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. In 1975, surplus funds of US$1.9 million were allocated to
the Third Highway Project, and the Closing Date was extended to
December 31, 1978.



-33-
ANNEX II
component from 200 km to 82 km and transferred US$1.9 million balance from
the completed Second Highway Project (Loan 586-TA) to meet the higher costs.
The AfDB made a loan of 4 million units of account (US$4.8 million equi-
valent) for the other 118 km. The.66 km of new construction on the primary
road is complete except for about 1/4 km of bridge approaches. Additional
investigatory work by the MOW on the remaining 16 km of existing sealed road
has confirmed the feasibility of undertaking minimum improvements and resealing
this section. The Mara betterment work has been completed and the Geita work
is scheduled for completion in mid-1978. Government has received the final
reports of the two preinvestment studies. Funds available under Credit 265-TA
have been fully disbursed, and only $1.4 million of the funds reallocated
from Loan 586-TA remain undisbursed.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
t1o.ember 20, 1974; Closing Datc - June 30, 1979
Orders have been placed and deliveries are well advanced for
about US$6 million worth of equipment and bids for a further US$0.5 million
worth will be called shortly. A contract for 634 man-months of technical
assistance has been signed and 17 of the 31 experts have commenced their
duties in the country. Construction of road camps, deployment of equipment
and training of maintenance personnel are in hand. Maintenance work has
commenced on several trunk roads.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: $15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
An initial supervision mission has just completed its discussions
with the Government on project start-up. The Project Coordinator has been
appointed and this should assist in initiating project execution.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
nearing completion. Education facilities for the Dar es Salaam sites have
been tendered; the rest of the community facilities in the project are to
be tendered soon. Progress on the lending program administered by the
Tanzania Housing Bank is slow but likely to pick up. Total project cost is
estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15 million, compared to the
appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million.



-34-                           ANNEX II
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: $12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This credit became effective on April 3. 1978. Progress on imple-
mentation is satisfactory    the residential components.  Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. Consultants'
report on the Land Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by Government in
January 1978 and a pilot test of the new system for cost recovery proposed in
the study is to be carried out in Morogoro.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2,
1977; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
The implementation of the institutional arrangements in connection
with the project, which includes mainly the establishment and operation of
an Urban Water Supply Fund within the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals
and an Urban Water Supply Unit in Morogoro, has been delayed by as much as
a year. Out of three senior advieors to be provided under the project, only
one is on duty. Out of five main contracts needed to construct the works in
Morogoro, one is practically completed, two are being awarded and the bidding
documents for the last two contracts are being Cinalized. Nine-month delays
in the physical construction of the work in Morogoro resulted mainly from
MWEN's poor administrative capability and difficulties due to the Tanzania/
Kenya border closure. Project implementation is expected to improve signi-
ficantly when the technical and financial advisors funded under the project
report for duty.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan bn Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
All bids have been received and contracts awarded except for
engineering construction supervision (due to some tax problems which have
to be solved at the Government level). Consulting engineers are continuing
to perform their duties. The revised project cost prepared on the basis
of awarded contracts has shown that there would be a cost overrun of about
31% compared to the appraisal estimate. The revised total financing
requirement is US$117.2 million, of which US$78.7 million is in foreign
currency. The revised financing plan prepared on the basis of the loan
agreements (the agreement requires financing of 75% of civil works costs
which includes indirect foreign exchange costs) has shown that the total
foreign exchange gap of the IBRD/SIDA portion is US$14.1 million, of which
US$12.8 million is indirect foreign exchange costs. If additional financing
is not identified, it will be necessary for the Bank to reduce the



ANNEX II
percentage disbursement against the civil works contracts (presently set
at 75%). All three civil contractors have essentially completed their
mobilization into the sites and construction has started.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
February 20, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This Loan is fully committed.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill
and is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million
linear meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable.
According to present indications, the project is likely to be commissioned
July 1978, four months behind schedule. However, the revised project cost
is within the appraisal estimate. There has been a deterioration in the
operating performance of the existing Mwanza plant as well as some other
textile mills. The National Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company
for state-owned textile mills, has agreed to institute immediately an action
program to improve the operating performance of existing mills.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
In the recent past this project has gained momentum. Up to the
end of 1977, the TIB Loans Committee had approved a total of 31 proposals -
11 for the new project feasibility studies, 2 for capacity utilization
studies, 16 for overseas training programs for Tanzanians and 2 for locally
conducted training programs. This brings the total commitments made by
TIB under the credit to about $2.6 million. The project has now broken
ground on all activities envisaged under it in the appraisal report. The
first project leader left in July 1977 due to health reasons, but a new
leader is expected to arrive shortly.



-36-                              ANNEX II
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: $11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
$11.5 million Bank Loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
There have been some initial delays in the appointment of consultants
'and start-up of procurement. Implementation of the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily and, although there will be some delays in the start-up of
individual components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the Project is
still scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only
slightly higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3. 1978: ClosinR Date - June 30, 1982
This Loan became effective on April 3, 1978.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community.l/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 2,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
_/ Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of separate
national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed balances for
each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29,
1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is given in this Annex.



-37-
ANNEX II
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and
a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed. Of the minor
project elements, only two are still under construction, namely the improve-
ment of lighterage facilities in Tanga and reconstruction of sheds in Mombasa.
Both are expected to be completed before mid-1978. Because of shortage of funds
under both loans, the following minor project elements have not been submitted
for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the lighterage quay
and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization of the lighterage
quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been
awarded for these project elements with the exception of the modernization
of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productivity
has imDroved with increasing throughput; however, port labor productivity
has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has declined con-
siderably. The ports of Kenya and Tanzania are now functioning completely
independently of each other. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours
Authority has been enacted, and a Kenya Port Authority is expected to be
established soon. Management of ports in both countries is competent.
Some $33.7 million of Loan 638-EA and $25.2 million of Loan 865-EA has
already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                    (US$ million)
Kenya                                 0.7
Tanzania                              0.6
Total                            1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                 1.7
Tanzania                              0.3
Total                            2.0
The closing date for Loan No. 638-EA has passed. However, since
the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each partner state is clearly
identified under the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978
(referred to in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977-
R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



-38-                            ANNEX II
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.0
Tanzania-                3.8
Uganda                   1.9
Total                    7.7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VIF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment, and
training. All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system construction
have now been completed, despite initial delays caused by staffing and other
problems associated with the reallocation of the headquarters. Funds disbursed
to date total$26.9 million and a further amount of $0.6 million has been com-
mitted for cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and multiplex telex
A contract for the provision of the remaining microwve and associated multi-
plex equipment required for completion of the project is about to be awarded.
The remaining funds are expected to be used for these systems. Because of the
long lead time required for the microwave equipment, the project is expected to
be fully completed by mid-1979. The Closing Date has accordingly been postponed



-39-         -               ANNEX II
to December 31, 1979. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at
October 1, 1977 among the countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                    2.4
Tanzania                 3.5.
Uganda                   0.1
Total                    6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank:  $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
Over the last year, the environment within the Community has had a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, and there has been some deterioration
in the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio rising to
50% as of June 30, 1977. However, EADB has been able to retain nearly all
its staff who are both adequate in number and technically competent to CQntinue
the operation of the institution and effect some recovery in the portfolio.
Some $5.3 million has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance
amounts to $3.3 million.



-40-
ANNEX III
TANZANIA - MOROGORO TEXTILE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time  taken to prepare:             14 months
(b)  Preparation by:                     National Textile Corporation (TEXCO)
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank:       June 1975
(d)  First Bank Mission:                 June 1977
(e)  Appraisal Mission departure:        October 1977
(f)  Negotiations:                       May 1978
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    November 1978
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.  Special Conditions
(1)  Conditions of effectiveness include:  (a) execution of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Company
(para.45); (b) effectiveness of cofinancing arrangements (para. 46);
and (c) employment of the Technical Management, Project Advisory
and Project Engineering, Firms (paras. 29 and 37).
(2)  Other conditions of particular Interest inciuae:
(a) The technical management firm will be hired to complete a
study by December 31, 1978 on the measures required to
increase capacity utilization and productivity in
TEXCO's operating textile mills. This study will be
reviewed in consultation with the Bank (para. 29) and
thereafter TEXCO will keep the Bank Group informed of
major developments within the textile sector (para. 34).
(b) TEXCO and the Company will appoint a management agency firm
at least six months before mechanical completion of the
project and continue their services for at least three
years of plant operation (para. 38).



-41-
(c) TEXCO will submit by December 31, 1978 a specific recruit-
ment and training program to be carried out according to
a mutually agreed plan (para. 39).
(d) Government and TEXCO will ensure that the Company will
maintain a current ratio of 1.5:1 and a debt/equity
ratio of 60/40, and the Company will not declare or pay
dividends if by so doing the Company's projected debt
service coverage ratio would fall below 1.5:1 (para. 50).
(e) During the initial three years after completion of the mill,
the Company will exchange views with Bank/IDA on any
investments not related to the project whose aggregate
costs would exceed US$5.0 million in any fiscal year
(para. 50).
(f) Government will ensure at efficient production a reasonable
return on capital employed (para. 50).






U G AN D A_--I                      --  4K  -    S5                                                                       TANZANIA
obat<V    J32V/ 10i?/E3!Sh<N Y A                                     LOCATION OF TEXTILE MILLS
WCR W A N D A                                        S~     uik'  oJ/                  N\INEGRATE13  SPiNNItNG                           '         tMlneds
{,   >    S   SI  17ZKt-  i                                                                          - - - - 010 5     TANZAM t iraVis
)t /3   6,*,    L  | tW  /t} ,4   14f5H3                         2   I ~~~~~ ~~           ~ ~~~~~AKE  L   obe Vner  snwri,nets   00505n tsoenrariirs
R egirona bound.rie
f 'NgareO /Nyz\.                                                                Propod IEntr1obl boundrit
Er--                                                I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-v"66a -d'
\  +  t VBlhorumulol\   + 0   /    5QK                                                  1     xL.qlu  0duwa
J     u R U N D                                                   y.l,R\.l  r  VYIk,ng,,  oIh                                       "IM ?ARCA\
JllS         / fKibo~~bndo .                               ny_ ga                Mb          KF) AfNA              It/r    AF(    t        e:                   .
iqom           XXUrambo    Toboro                                        Singido                                                                   /
t ;t 5@s)PNdu ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                         .0      T 
<   a   /   i X  t                           i   a                   K D A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A E5 SALO,AM.
0  00  200          300~~~~~~~~~~~~~a (                              one
panda 4  ..  '                                                                    -    Tngur               - Newolo  X
0EU          50 C00              IS        200                         0 1                         3X      h m        >          rno         j
0                                                                                                                               DAR ESL  /    b4 A 8
_ - <;j , t _ n | g4y d $Mche~~~~~~~~ngwe                                                  KilwaMsk
R E             AU  M L. I  A                                                       I,inga rv  >   Y o   <l < , 8O,loe)                              id
thlvmwnStr7m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                    15u\      )  
ZAIRE ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       earr                                                                 UteZte    IUE         4
Zerne*ewlHlN Om7   a                                              m  gfhe\Nanigw o
wrTvnonYno-ntv.      a                                                                                     Ki'w Moso\ ico, V / 
Ot  5     q          lo       2q           j               v 41                                      TunuruT/ ndu> 
j~~~                                          ~       ~      ~ 32 M  ) I A                   36                           Liw ,J MO        E   UEle    
-----  36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -tw                        r
32~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ncige



