CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1607 TA
Loan Agreement
(Morogoro Textile Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 28, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1607 TA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called t e Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPhNT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) to assist in the financing of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Association;
(B) the Borrower has requested other sources to assist
in the financing of the Project;
(C) the Project will be carried out by Morogoro Polyester
Textiles Limited (hereinafter called the Company) and the National
Textile Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Company
pursuant to the provisions of a subsidiary loan agreement the
proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided and part of the
proceeds of the credit to be provided under the Development Credit
Agreement referred to above; and
(D) the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, the Association,
the Company and the National Textile Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the aame force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
provided, however, that paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 is modified
to read as follows: "The term "Project" means the project for
which the loan is granted, as described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement as the description thereof may


﻿-2-
be amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower
the Bank and the Association." (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association
for the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association,
dated March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement,
all agreements supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement
and all schedules to the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) "Project Agreement" and "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" have
the respective meanings set forth in Section 1.02 (a) and (b) of
the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay


﻿-3-
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest
and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before
the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions set
forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the Amortization Schedule to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The provisions of Article III of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement
with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein;
provided that, (a) except in Section 3.01 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement, all references to the Association therein
shall be deemed references to the Bank, (b) the reference in
Section 3.01 (a) to the Development Credit Agreement shall be
deemed a reference to th-is Agreement and (c) the reference in
Section 3.01 (c) to the Credit shall be deemed a reference to the
Loan.


﻿4
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member
concerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or
any such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely, the events specified in Section
4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof, namely, any event specified or referred to in Section
4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, including the con-
tinuance of the events specified or referred to in paragraph (a)
of such Section for the period provided therein after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date November 28, 1978, is he:eby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1983
through   October 1, 1997                      835,000
On April 1, 1998                                    785,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 8 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                               1.15%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               2.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               4.15%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                         6.00%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                         6.75%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                               7.50%


