CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 833 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Horogoro Textile Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 28, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 833 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1978, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION   (hereinafter called  the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and the Association to assist in the financing of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(B) the Borrower has requested other sources to assist in
the financing of the Project;
(C) the Project will be carried out by Morogoro Polyester
Textiles Limited (hereinafter called the Company) and the Bor-
rower's National Textile Corporation (hereinafter called TEXCO)
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Company, pursuant to the
provisions of a subsidiary loan agreement a part of the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided and the proceeds of the loan
to be provided under a Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(D) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, the Association,
the Company and the National Textile Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan" means the loan under the Loan Agreement;
(b) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose
of the Project, as such agreement may 'be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15,
1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements
supplemental to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the
Bank, the Association, the Company and TEXCO of even date here-
with, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Company pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,00r'.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1988, and ending April 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the Company and TEXCO to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the prozision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Company and TEXCO to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.


﻿-4-
(b) The Borrower shall (i) relend $8,500,000 equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit and the entire proceeds of the Loan to
the Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank and the Association which shall include the
following: repayment over 15 years inclusive of 4-1/2 years of
grace; the rate of interest to be ten per cent per annum; foreign
exchange risk to be borne by the Company; and (ii) make available
(A) to TEXCO $2,000,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit,
and (B) to TEXCO to be made available to the Company as an equity
contribution $9,500,000 equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) Without limitation on subparagraph (a) above, the
Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Company
about $32,600,000 equivalent as equity in accordance with Schedule
3 to this Agreement and such other funds as necessary to complete
the Project in such proportion of debt and equity as shall be
consistent with Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
or appropriate to ensure that, after completion of Part A of the
Project, the Company, operates efficiently, which for these
purposes includes satisfactory arrangements for (a) timely pro-
curement of imported raw materials, maintenance materials and
spare parts, (b) sale and distribution of finished products, and
(c) at efficient operations obtains revenues sufficient to cover
all of its costs, to service all of its debt and to earn a reason-
able return on its invested capital which shall include share
capital, retained earnings plus long-term debt including the
current portion thereof.
SeLtion 3.03. The Borrower shall take appropriate measures
to ensure that upon completion of Part A of the Project there are
adequate supplies of power and water to serve the Project mill.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall provide, or cause to be
provided, in a timely fashion adequate sites and services for
housing facilities for the Project's workers.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 ff the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Company or TEXCO shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of the Com-
pany or TEXCO shall have been terminated or altered so as to
affect materially and adversely the carrying out by the Company or
TEXCO of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or the Company to
withdraw the proceeds of any loan made to the
Borrower or the Company for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower or the Company to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower or the Company from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement and of
the Company under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30


﻿-6-
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and the Company; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) (i) (B)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Company;
(b) all the conditions t    the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement have been met;
(c) the Association shall be satisfied that the other
sources of financing referred to in the clause (B) of the Preamble
to this Agreement are adequate to carry out the Project and that
all agreements providing for such financing are in full force and
effect! and
(d) the project advisory firm and the project engineering
firm referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement, and
the technical management firm referred to in Section 2.03 (a) of
the Project Agreement shall have been employed in accordance with
the provisions of such Sections.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Company and TEXCO, and is legally binding
upon the Company and TEXCO in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Company and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Company in accor-
dance with its terms; and


﻿-7-
(c) each agreement referred to in Section 5.01 (c) hereof
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, the Company
and TEXCO, as the case may be, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower, the Company and TEXCO, as the case may be, in accordance
with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date November 28, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02, 3.03, and 4.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
it


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and              16,000,000        100% of foreign
spares                                      expenditures
(2) Civil works                 8,500,000        15% of foreign
expenditures
and 78% of lo-
cal expenditures
(3) Technical assis-            6,700,000        100% of foreign
tance, engineer-                           expenditures
ing services and
study and training
(4) Interest and other          3,600,000        100%
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
October 1, 1981
(5) Imported raw materials      5,500,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(6) Unallocated                 4,700,000
TOTAL      45,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 10 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan and of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount
of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases
or increases, the Bank or the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000 may
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1978.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Bank and the Asso-
ciation shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the
Credit shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals
shall be made from the Loan Account except under commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet


﻿- 11 -
other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank or the Association shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
The construction and equipping of an integrated textile mill,
near the town of Morogoro, with spinning, weaving and processing
facilities to produce about 21.5 million m2 per year of blended
fabrics and an additional 650 tons of yarn, such mill to include
about 42,000 ring spindles and about 660 automatic shuttle looms
and finishing facilities with devices to ensure product quality,
and including the necessary ancillary and support facilities.
Part B:
The establishment of a mill training center and the carrying
out of a training program designed to train a sufficient number of
qualified staff members of the Company in textile technology and
operations for the purpose of enabling them to operate the faci-
lities included in Part A of the Project efficiently.
Part C:
The strengthening of the operational efficiency of existing
textile mills in TEXCO's group of companies, including a study to
be carried out by TEXCO to identify problems, ascertain the
adequacy of improvement programs and recommend changes, if neces-
sary.
The facilities included in Part A of the Project are expected
to start commercial operation in January 1982.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Schedule of Equity Contributions to
the Company from the Borrover's Funds
Dollar Equivalent
(Millions) to be Allocated
Year                in Equal Quarterly Instalments
1978                              4.0
1979                             12.6
1980                             12.0
1981                              4.0
32.6


