CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1607 TA
CREDIT NUMBER 833 TA
Project Agreement
(Morogoro Textile Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NOROGORO POLYESTER TEXTILES LIMITED
and
NATIONAL TEXTILE CORPORATION
Dated July 28, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1607 TA
CREDIT NUMBER 833 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 28, 1978, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank),
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), and MOROGORO POLYESTER TEXTILES LIMITED (hereinafter
called the Company) and NATIONAL TEXTILE CORPORATION (hereinaFter
called TEXCO).
WHEREAS by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the
United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, and by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith betwl!en the Borrower and the Association, the Bank and
the Association have agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
dollars ($25,000,000), and twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
respectively, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement, respectively, but
only on condition that the Company and TEXCO agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank and the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested other sources to assist in
financing the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company, the proceeds of the loan
and part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Loan
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement, respectively, will
be made available to the Company on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Company and TEXCO, in consideration of the Bank's
and the Association's entering into the Loan Agreement and the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement and in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions (as defined in each such Agreement) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Company and TEXCO shall carry out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. (a) Except as the Bank, the Association, the
Company and TEXCO shall otherwise agree, the Company or TEXCO,
as the case may be, shall, employ and retain, or cause to be
employed and retained, qualified and experienced consultants on
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association as follows:
(i) a project advisory firm to be responsible for
supervising the Project; and
(ii) a project engineering firm to assist in project
design, engineering, construction and installa-
tion, training, start-up and commissioning.
(b) The Company and TEXCO will not, without the prior
consent of the Bank and the Association, assign, amend, abrogate
or waive in whole or in part the contracts entered into by the
Company or TEXCO pursuant to subparagraphs (a) (i) and (ii) of
this Section.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank, the Association, and
TEXCO shall otherwise agree, TEXCO shall employ and retain, or
cause to be employed and retained, a qualified and experienced
technical management firm on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank and the Association to assist TEXCO in carrying out a
study by December 31, 1978 that will recommend measures to improve
the capacity utilization and productivity of the operating textile
mills within TEXCO's group of companies.
(b) TEXCO shall not, without the prior consent of the Bank
and the Association, assign, amend, abrogate or waive in whole or
in part the contract entered into pursuant to subparagraph (a) of
thi3 Section.


﻿-3-
(c) Upon completion of the aforesaid study, TEXCO in con-
sultation with the Bank and the Association will review the
conclusions of the study and TEXCO shall thereafter take such
measures as shall be necessary to improve the capacity utiliza-
tion and productivity of the operating textile mills in TEXCO's
group of companies, including the employment of qualified and
experienced technical personnel. If the costs of such personnel
are financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or Credit, the terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank and
Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank and the Association shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Company shall ensure that all necessary
anti-pollution steps are taken so that the Project is carried
out and the facilities included therein are operated in accordance
with sound ecological and environmental practices.
Section 2.06. Except .a the Bank, the Association and the
Company shall otherwise agree, the Company, not later than six
months before the mechanical completion of the Project:
(a) shall appoint a qualified and experienced management
agency firm on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
the Association to operate the facilities included in Part A of
the Project for a period of three years after completion of that
Part of the Project; and (b) shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive in whole or in part the contract entered into under sub-
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.07. The Company and TEXCO shall, by December 31,
1978, have submitted to the Bank and the Association for review
and comment a recruitment and training plan for the Company's
staff, and shall, thereafter, implement such a recruitment and
training program for the Company's staff acceptable to the Bank
and the Association, including the timely appointment of qualified
key management personnel to be trained by the management agency
firm referred to in Section 2.06 of this Agreement to assume
responsibility for operation of the facilities included under
Part A of the Project on termination of the agreement with such
firm.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Company to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Association may otherwise
agree, the Company and TEXCO shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank
and the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Company: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
and the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank and the Association within 45 days after each
calendar quarter all such information as the Bank and the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds, and quarterly financial statements.
(c) Promptly after completion of Part A of the Project, but
in any event not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Bank, the Association, and the Company, the Company shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank and the Association a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from


﻿-5-
it, the performance by the Bank, the Association and the Company
of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan and the Credit.
Section 2.10. The Company shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. (a) The Company shall at the request of the
Bank and the Association, exchange views with the Bank and the
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and
the Credit.
(b) The Bank, the Association and the Company shall promptly
inform one another of any condition which interferes or threatens
to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan and the Credit, or the performance by
the Company of its obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. The Company shall at all times operate and
maintain its textile manufacturing facilities, its machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time promptly make
all repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
administrative, commercial, financial and technical practices
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, including without
limitation the employment and training of accounting personnel.
Section 3.02. The Company shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank and the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Company shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Company shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
Association and shall give prompt attention to audit recommenda-
tions of such auditors; (b) furnish to the Bank and the Asso-
ciation as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank and the Association shall have reason-
ably requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank and the Association
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Company and the audit thereof as the Bank and
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Company, the Bank and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Company shall maintain a
debt-equity ratio not exceeding 60:40.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of the Company,
including debt for the service of which the
Company is responsible, maturing by its terms
more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of, and to the extent it is drawn down in accor-
dance with, the agreement providing for such
debt;
(iii) the term "equity" means the total capital and
surplus of the Company, determined in accor-
dance with sound accounting practices;


﻿-7-
(iv) the term "incur" with reference to any debt
includes the assumption and guarantee of any
debt and any renewal, extension or modification
of the terms of the debt or of the assumption
or guarantee thereof; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by the Company for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or, if no such rate is avail-
able, at a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank
and the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Company and the Bank and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Company shall main-
tain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less
than 1.5 to 1.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash, securities
readily convertible into cash, accounts receivable
and realizable within one year and inventories;
and
(ii) the term "current liabilities" includes accounts
payable within twelve months, customer advances,
income taxes, bonuses and all other liabilities
(including debt) which will be due and payable,
or could be called for payment, within twelve
months.
Section 4.05. (a) Except as the Company, the Bank and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Company shall only declare
or pay any dividend on its equity capital or make any other
distribution with respect to its equity capital if after such
declaration, payment or distribution the Company's projected
debt service coverage ratio for the fiscal year in which such
declaration, payment or distribution is made is at least 1.5.


﻿-8-
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "debt service coverage ratio" means the ratio
between the reasonably estimated net revenues for
any fiscal year and the aggregate amount of amorti-
zation (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt payable
in the same fiscal year; and
(ii) "net revenues" means gross revenues from all
sources less all operating and administrative
expenses, and amounts paid or to be paid within the
year on account of taxes; provided that the operat-
ing and administrative expenses shall not include
interest and other charges on debt, and provision
for depreciation of assets.
Section 4.06. For the initial three years after completion of
Part A of the Project, the Company will exchange views with the
Bank and the Association on any investments by the Company, other
than for purposes of the Project, whose aggregate costs would
exceed $5,000,000 equivalent in any single fiscal year.
ARTICLE V
TEXCO's Undertaking
Section 5.01. As shareholder of the 0Cmpany, TEXCO (i) agrees
with all the obligations of the Company in this Agreement set
forth, (ii) shall cause the Company to perform such obligations in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, and (iii) shall
take or cause to be taken all actions necessary or appropriate to
enable the Company to perform such obligations.
Section 5.02. As the Bank and the Association may reasonably
request, TEXCO will provide information on major developments in
the Borrower's textile sector.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank, the Association, the Company and TEXCO thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which both the Loan Agreement and the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with their terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit
Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms before the
date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Bank
or the Association shall promptly notify the Company of this
event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Company:
Morogoro Polyester Textiles Limited
P.O. Box 9531
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:                     Telex:
TEXCO                               41247
Dar es Salaam                        TEXCO
Dar es Salaam
For TEXCO:
National Textile Corporation
P.O. Box 9531
Dar es Salam
Tanzania
Cable address:                     Telex:
TEXCO                               41247
Dar es Salaam                       TEXCO
Dar es Salaam


﻿- 11 -
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be teken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of each of the Company and TEXCO may be
taken or executed by the General Manager and a member of the Board
of Directors of the Company or the Managing Director and a
member of the Board of Directors of TEXCO, respectively, or such
other person or persons as by the General Manager and a member of
the Board of Directors of the Company or the Managing Director
and a member of the Board of Directors of TEXCO, respectively,
shall designate in writing, and the Company and TEXCO shall each
furnish to the Bank and the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of such
persons.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hans A. Adler
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Agrica


﻿- 12 -
MOROGORO POLYESTER TEXTILES LIMITED
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
NATIONAL TEXTILE CORPORATION
By /s/ Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in Mazch 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, TEXCO shall prepare and forward
to the Bank and the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request; the
Bank and the Association will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. TEXCO shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Company of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 14 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Bank, the Association and
the Borrower that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Tanzania equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 15 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (2) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, TEXCO may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including details
of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Bank and the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by TEXCO,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for orders for the purchase of goods which cannot
be bulked in packages of $100,000 equivalent or more shall be


﻿- 16 -
procured pursuant to the Borrower's applicable procedures after
solicitation of bids from potential suppliers from at least three
member countries of the Bank (which for this purpose shall include
Switzerland); provided that the aggregate value of contracts
awarded pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed $2,000,000
equivalent.
2.   Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature and items in
limited supply which are critical to timely implementation of
the Project up to an aggregate of $1,000,000 equivalent may be
awarded pursuant to competitive bidding among qualified suppliers
acceptable to the Bank and the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank and the
Association
1.   Review of prequalification. TEXCO shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Bank and the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eigibility for domestic preference under Parts B and C above and
of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by TEXCO to the
Bank and the Association for their comments before the applicants
are notified of TEXCO's decision, and TEXCO shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank and the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, TEXCO shall furnish to the Bank
and the Association, for its comments, the text of the invita-
tions to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in
the said documents or procedures as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the bidding
documents shall require the Bank's and the Association's con-
currence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TEXCO
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Bank and the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank and
the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,
together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Bank and the
Association shall reasonably request. The Bank and the Association
shall, if they determine that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
TEXCO and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's and the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank and the Association promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account or the Credit
Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, TEXCO shall furnish to the Bank and the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank and the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account or the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank and the Association
shall reasonably request. The Bank or the Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform TEXCO and
state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract financed from the proceeds of
the Credit or the Loan, or granting an extension of the stipulated
time for performance of such contract, or issuing any change order
under such contract (except in cases of extreme urgency) which
would increase the cost of the contract by more than 5% of the
original price, TEXCO shall inform the Bank and the Association


﻿- 18 -
of the proposed modification, waiver, extenlion or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Bank or the Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform TEXCO and
state the reasons for its determination.


