Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3920-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
October 21, 1982
Western Africa Region
Agriculture 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in th
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban. --viatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      =  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                            =  CFAF 340
CFAF 1,000,000                     =  US$2,940
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer            2          =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )          =  0.39 square miles
1 hectare                         =  2.47 acres
1 kilogram                        =  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)                  =  2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SOTOCO             April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAD      Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNCA      Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole
DHE       Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie
DRDR      Direction Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
EDF       European Development Fund
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IRAT      Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures
Vivrieres
IRCT      Institut de Recherches du Coton et des Textiles Exotiques
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development
OPAT      Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
PROPTA    Projet de Promotion de la Traction Animale
SOTOCO    Societe Togolais du Coton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TOCO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND                                                       1
Introduction                                                1
The National Situation and the Economy                       1
The Agricultural Sector                                      2
Extension Services                                          3
Development Agencies and Projects                            3
IDA Assisted Agricultural Development Projects              3
The First Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas         3
Crop Marketing                                              5
Credit                                                      6
Training                                                    6
Applied Research and Seed Multiplication                    6
Agricultural Development Policy Proposals and Priorities  7
II.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                 8
Project Area and Participating Farmers                      8
Climate and Ecology                                         8
Agricultural Practices                                       9
Land Tenure                                                10
Road Communications                                        10
Water Availability                                         10
III.  THE PROJECT                                                     10
A.  Objectives and Summary Description                          10
B.  Detailed Features                                           12
Agronomic Packages                                         12
Food Crop Storage                                          14
Field Services                                             14
Farmer Groups and Credit Operations                        15
Animal Traction                                            16
Input Supply and Credit                                    17
Applied Agronomic Research                                  18
Seed Multiplication for SOTOCO                             18
Support to National Seed Multiplication Program            19
Rural Water Supply                                         19
Feeder Road Development                                    20
Cotton Ginning, Transportation and Workshops               21
Mo Plain Development                                       22
Buildings                                                  22
Monitoring and Evaluation                                  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                           23
Organization                                                    23
Staffing, Technical Assistance and Fellowships                  25
The National Extension System and SOTOCO's Future Role          26
Reporting Requirements                                          27
Preparation of Possible Third Project                           27
V.  COSTS AND FINANCING                                                   29
Project Costs                                                   29
Proposed Financing                                              29
Recurrent Costs                                                 31
Financing PlaBO
Procurement                                                     32
Disbursement                                                    33
Build-up of SOTOCO Capital                                      34
Financial Management, Reporting and Audit                       34
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER RETURNS & FINANCIAL RESULTS    35
Adoption Rates and Production                                   35
Cotton Prices and Market Outlook                                36
Food Crop Prices and Marketing                                  37
Farm and Crop Returns                                           38
Input Prices, Subsidies and Cotton Prices                       39
The Cotton Bareme                                               39
Government Revenues and Cash Flow                               40
VII.  BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                            42
Benefits                                                        42
Economic Analysis                                               42
Sensitivity                                                     43
Risks                                                           43
VIII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                        44
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 1 : Summary of Project Costs
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan
Table 3 : Economic rate of Return
ANNEXES
Table 1 : Project Costs by Year
Table 2 : Detailed Financing Plan
Table 3 : Disbursement Schedule
Table 4 : Government Cash Flow
Table 5 : Farm Models
Table 6 : Economic Value of Cotton
Table 7 : Economic Costs and Benefits
List of Reports and Working Papers in Project File
Chart I : SOTOCO Organigram
Chart II : SOTOCO's Regional Structure
Map



TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      Introduction.    The  Government  of  Togo  has  requested  IDA
assistance in the financing of a Second Rural Development Project in Cotton
Areas. This project would follow on from the first project (Credit 741-TO)
and would aim at further increasing cotton and food crop production within
an integrated whole farm approach. The project was identified and prepared
by RMWA in 1981 with assistance from consultants. Appraisal was undertaken
in November/December 1981 by a mission consisting of Messrs. K. Oblitas, R.
de Cock, M. Nightingale (IDA) and C. Sourang (Consultant). The CCCE and
FAC also participated in the appraisal.
1.02      The National Situation and the Econo2my.  Togo is located on the
Gulf of Guinea and covers an area of 56,000 km- bordered by Ghana, Benin
and Upper Volta. The country is divided into five administrative regions,
from north to south; Savanna, Kara, Central, Plateau and Maritime (see
map). Population is estimated at 2.5 million, growing at 2.5% per annum,
of which 2 million (80%) are rural with particularly heavy concentrations
in the south and in the Kara region.
1.03      Despite impressive economic growth rates (4 to 7% per annum)
experienced between 1960 and 1975, mainly stimulated by the country's
major export goods (coffee, cocoa and rock phosphate), the succeeding five
years were marked by slow economic growth (2.5% per annum) and financial
disequilibrium following stagnation or decline in output and lower prices
for these products. Government investment in agriculture in the 1970s was
low and thus the overall GDP in 1980, calculated at US$380 per capita,
obscures a poverty level of only US$180 per capita for the rural community.
1.04      The  Third  Development  Plan  aimed  to  reverse  the  previous
emphasis on infrasructural development, allocating over half of investments
for rural development (22%) and industry and commerce (30%). However, actual
investments concentrated on industry, commerce and tourism (more than 45%),
with agriculture realising only 7% of the total.  This produced little
productive growth and simultaneously encouraged domestic consumption
thereby seriously aggravating the balance of payments and government
resources.   Consequently, the servicing of the debt burden incurred by
state enterprises in the latter part of the last decade will necessitate
stringent economic controls throughout the Fourth Development Plan period
(1981-85).   Concomitantly,  future Government  investments will need to
emphasise directly productive projects.



- 2 -
1.05      The Agricultural Sector.  The agricultural sector accounts for
80% of employment, 30% of GDP and 30% of export revenues.  Approximately
11% of the geographic area is cultivated, involving an estimated 265,000
families averaging 7.5 persons who typically grow food crops or food crops
and cotton on about 2 hectares.   Food crops comprise about 450,000 ha
(estimated at maize 130,000 ha, sorghum/millet 150,000 ha, cassava 50,000
ha, yams 40,000 ha, beans 40,000 ha, groundnuts 30,000 ha, rice 10,000 ha)
and industrial crops about 160,000 ha (57,000 ha oil palm,  80,000 ha
coffee/cocoa and 23,000 ha cotton).   About 12% of the population own
cattle (200,000 head mainly in the northern and central regions), 10% keep
pigs (150,000 head mainly in the south), 40% keep sheep and goats
(900,000 head), and 70% have poultry (3 million head). Average annual meat
consumption, estimated at 6.5 kg per capita, is almost wholly domestic
production.
1.06      Despite  dominant  reliance  on  traditional  techniques,  and
excepting drought years, Togo is largely self-sufficient in food crops.
Food imports, mainly involving luxury cereals (wheat and rice) destined
for urban  centres,  represent  under  10%  of  food  consumption.    Basic
nutrition levels are reasonable (estimate 1978/80: 1985 calories/capita)
and consist of tubers (40%), cereals (52%) and legumes (8%). Nevertheless,
a growing Togolese urban market and food deficit regions in neighbouring
countries (especially Nigeria across the border from Benin), can absorb
productivity increases, and are exerting upward pressure on domestic food
prices and providing an increasingly attractive export potential for food
crops.
1.07      Hitherto, Government policy for agriculture has concentrated on
export crops, principally coffee, cocoa and, more recently, cotton. This
has been largely achieved through crop specific development projects which
have been relatively successful, although potential impact was sacrificed
through a restrictive pricing policy.   This emphasis was given at the
expense of improving the productivity of food crops. As a result, improved
varieties of food crop seeds are in short supply, less than 20,000 ha of
food crops receive inorganic fertilizer and the use of pesticides on food
crops is negligible.
1.08      Cotton production has been given a significant boost through the
First Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas  (para 1.12).   Further
development of cotton would help to diversify export crop production away
from Togo's past heavy reliance for agricultural export revenues on coffee
and cocoa which are subject to cyclical price changes. With the exception
of most of the Maritime Region and the coffee/cocoa area to the S.W. of the
Plateau Region, cotton can be grown throughout Togo. It offers a source
of reliable cash income for farmers and is a lead crop in a cotton/food
crops technical package which can simultaneously serve to stimulate food
crop production.  The relationship between cotton and food crops is not
only technical.   Farmers plant food crops as a first priority to meet
subsistence needs; thus, by augmenting and stabilising food crop yields a
direct stimulus is provided to increasing cotton production. Further, the
whole package approach avoids duplication of extension efforts, and cotton
sector surpluses can help support development efforts on food crops.



- 3 -
1.09      Extension Services.  A national extension service is organized
under the five semi-autonomous "Directions Regionales pour le Develop-
pement Rural" (DRDRs) which come under the Ministry of Rural Development.
The DRDRs currently employ about 600 extension agents (ratio 1:500
farmers) and are intended to increasingly play the role of regional
development agencies but are constrained by lack of trained personnel,
equipment and operating funds, and extension agents are poorly motivated
and without  the means  to make  an  impact.    As  a result,  parastatal
agencies and industrial development projects have tended to develop their
own exclusive support services, a tendency that has been exacerbated by
Government's piecemeal approach to rural development which has resulted in
a proliferation of small projects and duplication of efforts.
1.10      Development  Agencies  and  Projects.        In  addition  to  the
parastatal crop oriented agencies such as SRCC for cocoa and coffee, SOTOCO
for cotton and associated food crops, TOGOFRUIT for fruit and SONAPH for
oil palm, about 10 other rural development projects are in progress or
getting underway in Togo. Of these, the principal projects relevant to the
proposed Second Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas include the
Federal Republic of Germany (GTZ) assisted project in the Central Region
which is assisting DRDR extension services,  promoting  food crops and
animal traction and has a seed production farm, and the proposed IFAD
assisted Notse Rural Development Project in the southeast of the Plateau
Region which would promote  food crops and cotton and includes a seed
production farm.
1.11      IDA  Assisted  Agricultural  Development  Projects.    IDA  has
financed  four  rural  development  projects.    The  First  Cocoa/Coffee
Development Project (Credit 503, 1974) and the Second Cocoa/Coffee
Development Project (Credit 945, 1979) are supporting the planting of
coffee and cocoa and replanting of cocoa and progress of the coffee com-
ponent is generally satisfactory but the cocoa component is experiencing
difficulties. The Maritime Region Rural Development Project (Credit 638,
1976) will terminate at end 1982 and has been less successful. Reliance on
food crops without a supporting cash crop, difficult soils and variable
rainfall in the Maritime Region, the absence of a really effective
technical package, over diversification of project components and a weak
technical management have all contributed to incomplete realisation of
project objectives at the farm level. Cotton production in the north-east
of the region would be supported under the proposed Second Rural
Development Project in Cotton Areas and the Maritime Project Credit has been
extended by one year (1982) to continue support of applied research and
seed multiplication for food crops and coconut.   The Rural Development
Project in Cotton Areas (Credit 741), described below, was initiated in
1977 and successfully completed in June 1982; it was the precursor to the
follow-up project proposed here.
1.12      The First Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas.  The main
objectives of this project were to increase national cotton production and
the production of food crops grown in rotation with cotton.  This was to
have been achieved through:   (i) the strengthening of the implementing
agency, SOTOCO; (ii) provision of farm inputs, improved seeds and
pesticides and encouragement of improved cultural practices through an



- 4 -
upgraded extension service; (iii) construction and maintenance of feeder
roads and construction of a new headquarters, field offices and stores;
(iv) promotion of animal traction; and (v) supporting services such as
applied research, seed multiplication and monitoring and evaluation. Tube
well developmrent was also regarded as a priority area and was financed
separately with EDF assistance.   The project (total estimated cost at
appraisal including contingencies US$26.0 million) has been assisted
with funding from IDA (US$14.0 million) and FAC (US$5.1 million equiva-
valent) and the Credit was fully disbursed in June 1982.
1.13      The project has substantially achieved its main objectives.  In
the two years prior to the project, national seed cotton production
averaged 6,700 t per annum whereas production from the 1981/82 season (PY4)
reached 20,800 t or 87% of the appraisal target for PY4 of 23,900 t. The
project's progress as regards food crop production has, however, been less
successful although the precise impact is difficult to assess.   Some
4,150 ha of food crops (maize, sorghum and groundnuts) were grown by
project participants in 1981/82 at the full development stage which
includes use of improved seed, fertilizer and improved cultural practices.
This compares to an appraisal target for stage III food crops of 10,100 ha.
Stage II production (improved cultural practices and in rotation with
cotton) has considerably larger reported areas (64,000 ha) but the project's
impact upon such farmers' yields and production is not precisely known
(para 1.14). Some key indicators are tabulated below:
Key Indicators of Progress Under First Rural Development
Project in Cotton Areas (As at PY4, 1981/82 Season)
Pre-Project  Appraisal        Achievement  Achievement
(1977)       Target          For PY4        as % of
For PY4                       Appr. Target
Farming Families Reached        19,300        44,400          39,100            88
Total Cotton Area (Ha)          11,700        26,360          23,480            89
Total Cotton Production (t)    6,700          23,940          20,820            87
Maize Area Stage III(Ha)            0          2,870           2,150            75
Sorghum Area Stage I'I (Ha)         0          5,040             980            19
Groundnut Area Stage III (Ha)       0          2,200           1,020            46
1.14      These   achievements   reflect   the   generally   satisfactory
development of the various supporting project components and departments
and of SOTOCO's management, although the following problems and shortfalls
must be noted. The animal traction component was inadequately staffed and
the unit head was also responsible for seed multiplication; as a result,
little progress was achieved.   Monitoring and evaluation was not given
adequate attention and management feedback and data, particularly on food
crops are scanty. The absence of an appropriately staffed department to
manage cotton marketing and transportation operations has resulted in



- 5 -
inefficiencies and high costs.   Financial management was initially very
weak to the extent that even general accounting and the timely sending of
disbursement requests to Government and the cofinancers suffered.  Under
new management, accounting is now up to date and will shortly be fully
computerized including analytical accounting and inventory management.
Finally, while some progress has been made recently, inadequate attention
has been paid by Government and SOTOCO management to the recruitment and
training of Togolese senior and middle  ranking  staff.   Additionally,
SOTOCO has been hampered by its financial arrangements with Government and
OPAT.  Dependency on the Treasury for Government's 25% share of project
funding and for subsidy payments on inputs have resulted in substantial
past Government arrears to SOTOCO and late ordering of seasonal inputs.
This has been exacerbated by an incomplete "bareme" between SOTOCO and OPAT
for coverage of cotton sector related expenditures, and by SOTOCO's
inadequate capital endowment which is insufficient to cover its working
capital  requirements.    These  problems  would  be  redressed  under  the
proposed second phase project.
1.15      Despite these shortfalls, the first project has had a significant
impact on cotton production and some impact on associated food crops and
provides a sound basis for a follow-up project. Project costs have been
held to the original forecasts at appraisal (without adjustment for some
incompletely realised components described above) and disbursements were
completed on schedule. The rate of return for the first project is reesti-
mated at approximately 22%.  The snortfall on the appraisal estimate of 32%
is due primarily to incomplete realization of production targets, in
particular those of food crops, for which--in the absence of reliable data--
conservative estimates have been used.
1.16      Crop Marketing.   Marketing of export crops is handled by the
state marketing agency OPAT, which comes under the Ministry of State Enter-
prises. In 1980, OPAT's gross sales amounted to CFAF 16.7 billion (US$79
million) and, due to heavy taxes particularly on cocoa and coffee, resulted
in profits of CFAF 8.0 billion (US$40 million). OPAT surpluses, which were
previously earmarked for special Government investments are now passed on
to the Treasury's general budget and repesent about 8% of Government
revenues.
1.17      In the cotton sector SOTOCO purchases seed cotton from farmers
and is increasingly taking over cotton ginning and transport of lint and
seed to the port (para 3.26), OPAT's role becoming restricted to port
handling and exporting. A bareme between OPAT and SOTOCO is intended to
provide reimbursement to SOTOCO of direct costs associated with cotton
production, purchasing, processing and transportation but has to date not
completely covered such costs with the result that SOTOCO has had to be
supported out of the Treasury budget (para 6.12).
1.18      Food crop marketing is handled primarily by a thriving private
network of traders. Although some concern has been expressed by Government
that trader operations are monopolistic and involve speculation and excess
profits, analysis of these channels suggests that the system is fairly



- 6 -
competitive and efficient and that price mark-ups are not excessive (para
6.05).   Partly in response to this concern and also in response to the
considerable price fluctuations for food crops, both during and between
seasons, Government established TOGOGRAIN in the early 1970s to maintain a
security grain reserve, stabilize the market by buying at low price periods
(after harvest) and selling at high price periods, and provide an
alternative sales outlet to farmers. Inadequate funding by Government,
managerial problems, heavy losses during storage and high operating costs
have characterized its operations to date and it has had minimal market
impact. Given the security provided by the variety of food crops grown in
Togo, a better strategy might be to monitor expected crop harvests and
import grains during deficit years while encouraging on-farm storage and
further development of private sector marketing and trade. A special study
on the above has recently been undertaken by the Bank.
1.19      Credit.   Most  farmers  have no access  to credit.   The main
Government institution, "Caisse Nationale du Credit Agricole" (CNCA),
hitherto lent only to parastatal organizations and farmer groups. CNCA is
currently being reorganised under a new management so as to provide a more
effective service.   With  the exception of seasonal credit for cotton
production (over 98% recovery), provided through SOTOCO, experience of
credit operations with small farmers has been discouraging particularly
when used for food crops.
1.20      Training.   Agricultural  training at the graduate and diploma
levels is generally adequate although college output is constrained by
lack of operating funds.  Base level training of extension staff and pilot
farmers, particularly under the DRDRs, is less satisfactory although the
development projects, and particularly SOTOCO, are having some impact.
1.21      Applied Research and Seed Multiplication.  Agricultural research
is currently handled under four different Ministries involving about a
dozen agencies.   Additionally,  practically every agricultural  project
has  its  own  applied  research  program.    Five  international  research
institutions are also represented in Togo:   IRCT for cotton,  IRAT for
food crops, IRCC for cocoa and coffee, IRHO for oil crops and ORSTOM
for soil analysis and mapping. Generally, there is a need for much greater
coordination of agricultural research efforts focusing on avoidance
of duplication, appropriate priorities, feedback from farmers and extension
services and greater inflow of information from international research
agencies. The Government, conscious of these needs, has requested IDA's
support under the Second Technical Assistance Credit (para 1.24).
Specific applied research related to the SOTOCO program is currently done
by IRCT and IRAT under contract arrangements with SOTOCO that would be
continued, with appropriate improvements, under the second phase project
(para 3.19).
1.22      Most agricultural  development projects have a seed multipli-
cation component based on foundation seeds provided by their applied
research  programs.    Lack  of  coordination  amongst  these  results  in
duplication of efforts and often poor seed quality. A national program to
coordinate production and control seed quality is much needed and would be
supported by the project (para 3.21).



1.23      Agricultural Development Policy Proposals and Priorities.  Recog-
nising the inadequacy of agricultural investments in recent years and
the inherent dangers to national food supply and foreign exchange
earnings, Government has determined to promote balanced agricultural
development as the priority for the Fourth Plan (1981-85). Agriculture and
rural development have been allocated CFAF 117 billion (US$344 million),
or 45% of total investments. The current program is, however, vague and
over-ambitious relative to prospective financial and manpower resources
and lacks a coherent investment strategy.   Key areas requiring further
attention are outlined below:
(i) careful planning and coordination of Togo's rural development
strategy is required focusing primarily on smallholder farming
and on further development and diversification of export earning
crops and of food crops;
(ii) review and revision of producer prices for export crops and
input prices, the former being in most cases heavily taxed
(especially coffee and cocoa) and the latter heavily subsidized
(para 6.07);
(iii)  restructuring  of  the  institutions,  agencies  and  projects
involved to streamline functions and reduce duplication of
efforts. The existence of two Ministries, the Ministry of Rural
Development and the Ministry of Rural Works with many over-
lapping functions, and the current situation as regards
extension (para 1.09) and applied research and seed multipli-
cation (para 1.21) provide examples of current inefficiencies;
(iv) improved services to the agricultural sector (for instance,
extension, research, seed multiplication, credit, animal traction,
input supply, feeder roads, and village water supply); and
(v)  progression   towards   more   effective   decentralization   of
development responsibilities to the regions.
1.24      The   proposed   project  would   contribute   to  these   areas
particularly as concerns items (iv) and (v). In parallel, a second Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 1270) has recently been approved and a Structural
Adjustment Credit is under consideration and, as concerns the agricultural
sector would place emphasis on items (i) to (iii). A price unit is being
established within OPAT to review agricultural output and input prices,
to propose changes and to provide a mechanism for continued monitoring
and updating of price recommendations.   This would be supported under
the Technical Assistance Project which would also help finance the creation
of an agricultural planning unit within the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment and a unit for coordination of applied research. Attention is also
being paid by Government and IDA towards institutional restructuring in the
context  of  the proposed  Structural Adjustment Credit.   Together with
the proposed Project and the ongoing Second Cocoa/Coffee Development
Project, a comprehensive program to tackle key development potentials
and constraints would therefore be supported by the Bank which would
complement ongoing development initiatives and projects financed by the
Togolese Government and other development agencies.



- 8 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
2.01      Project Area and Participating Farmers.  Given the wide distri-
bution of cotton growing in Togo, the project would entail, as under the
first project, a geographic coverage comprising most of Togo's land area
and the following administrative regions:   Savanna,  Kara,  Central and
Plateau (exclusive of the Cocoa/Coffee area in the south-west of the
region).  Additionally,  it would include the cotton growing area in the
north-east of the Maritime Region and the Mo plain in the west of the
Central r5gion (see map). In total, this amounts to a land area of some
46,000 km and comprises a rural population of about 1.4 million or 215,000
families.   Some 42,000 families  in this area are estimated to produce
cotton with SOTOCO's assistance during the 1982/83 season.
2.02      The  project  area  includes   locations  where  other  rural
development  projects  operate.    For  each  of  these  projects,  specific
arrangements  were  worked  out  under  the  first  Project  for  the  areas
concerned, whereby SOTOCO's role was reduced to take account of these
interventions.   This generally takes the form of a SOTOCO intervention
limited to the supply of cotton inputs and cotton marketing and technical
advice and training in cotton production techniques. Similar arrangements
would operate in the future, with improvements to take account of past
lessons.
2.03      Climate and Ecology.  The project area, with an altitude of 200 -
500 m, adequate rain and an annual mean temperature of 33 C, is ecologi-
cally well suited for cotton and food crop production. It can be subdivided
into the following main ecological zones:
(i) North Savanna has an irregular and short rainy season (five
months, May - September) with about 1,000 mm/year. Population
density is about 50/km  and families are generally large (about
8 persons). The predominant soils are ferruginous tropical of
medium fertility. Farms average 4.4 ha and grow mainly sorghum-
/millet, cotton, groundnuts and, in the low lying areas,
swampland rice.
(ii) Oti-Kara is a mountainous zone with adequate rainfall (1,300 mm
in 6 months, May - October) but low agricultural potential due to
over-population and resultant depletion of soil fertil'ty.
Population density averages 53/km but reaches almost 300/km in
some areas while about one fourth of the region is unpopulated
due to onchocerciasis. Typical family size is five persons and
farms average only 2.4 ha.  Principal crops include sorghum/-
millet, groundnuts, cotton and rice.
(iii)  North Central is 2the least populated zone with a density of
only about 19/km .  Rainfall of 1,400 mm/year over 7 months
(April - October) and generally good soils make this region well
suited for the main crops of the area:  maize, yams, cassava,
cotton, groundnuts and cowpeas. Families average about 5 persons
and farm some 3.5 ha.



- 9 -
(iv) South Central is a zone where rainfall averages 1,450 mm/year
over 8 months (March - October) an2d soils are generally good.
Population density  is about 40/km  and families average 4.5
persons. Farms are small (2.5 ha) and grow a wide range of crops
including cassava, maize, cotton, groundnuts, rice (upland),
sorghum and cowpeas.
(v)  Plateau.  With an average rainfall of 1,200 - 1,600 mm/year (bi-
modal over 8 months, March to October with a dry period in
Augus2), generally good soils and a population density of about
30/km , this zone has the best agricultural potential.   Cocoa
and coffee dominate the wetter, mountainous areas to the west,
while the eastern part is most suited for integrated cotton and
food crop development. Families are generally large (6 persons)
and have 2 ha of cleared land, cultivating up to 3.5 ha over the
two growing seasons. Principal crops are maize, cassava, yams,
cotton, groundnuts and cowpeas.
2.04      Agricultural Practices.  Apart from some animal traction (para
2.06), land clearing and cultivation is done by hand. Land is generally
cultivated for 3 to 4 years and then left under fallow for 6 to 8 years in
the Savanna and Plateau regions and 3 to 4 years elsewhere.   Deficient
cultural practices including late planting, poor and late weeding and
absence of inputs (improved seeds, fertilizer and pesticides), result in
low yields for food crops.   Cotton, receiving technical assistance and
inputs on credit, has better yields as illustrated in the table below:
Ecological Region                   Crop Yields (kg/ha)
Cotton  Maize   Sorghum Groundn. Rice   Cowpea  Yams    Cassava
North-Savanna        700       -       650     450      700       -    5,000       -
Oti-Kara             800       -       650     550      700       -    5,000   6,000
North Central        900      700     650      650      750      340      -    6,000
South Central      1,100      800     650      650      750      340      -    6,000
Plateau              900      700       -      650       -       340   5,000   6,000
2.05      In the north, sorghum and yams -- the main food staples -- are
planted on almost 70% of the cropped area.  In the centre and south, these
are replaced by maize and cassava and cover over 50% of the cultivated
area. Losses during storage (15% for grains) and family consumption result
in very little of food crop production reaching the market. Farmers' yearly
cash income is therefore limited and has been estimated (details in Project
File) at between US$70 and US$130 depending on the region and the crops
grown (the highest being for cotton growers).
2.06      Cattle are reared for meat, milk and to a lesser extent draft
purposes. They are concentrated mainly in the northern and central regions
and are kept as small herds grazed in the bush and on crop residues
and stockaded near the homestead at night.   Some 2,100 pairs of draft
oxen exist of which 1,900 are in the Savanna and Kara regions where a
strong tradition exists. Elsewhere, animal traction is rare but has been



- 10 -
stimulated by Government's recent commitment to develop animal traction,
the economic attractiveness of animal traction, and by promotional and
training efforts in agricultural projects.  The principal existing insti-
tutions are: (i) PRODEBO, the EDF supported national agency for promoting
animal traction which is to be reinforced and renamed PROPTA; (ii) the
Direction de la Sante Animale" (DSA) which is responsible for animal health
and which has a field service lacking in equipment and operating funds for
medicaments; and (iii) UPROMA, a recently established UNDP funded workshop
for manufacture of animal traction equipment.   The First Rural Develop-
ment Project in Cotton Areas intended to established 350 pairs of work
oxen but progress was initially slow due to inadequate staffing of
SOTOCO's ox traction unit and to date only 90 pairs have been introduced.
2.07      Land Tenure.   The land tenure system in the Savanna and Kara
regions is based on extended family ownership and inheritance within the
family.   In the Central and Plateau regions, land is owned by the local
community, with individual farmers receiving usufruct rights from village
chiefs.  Leasing of land to migrant farmers is possible in all regions.
Generally, land tenure is not a problem.
2.08      Road Communications.  The area is served by Togo's main north-
south tarmac road from which radiate a number of other public and major
rural roads which, together, provide a good basic road network. Upgrading
of this network is being supported by the Fourth Highways Project (Credit
1149) and the Feeder Roads Project (Credit 810) and through projects
financed by the EDF, ADB and Kuwait Fund.   Access  to rural villages
from this road network is, however, poor and a critical constraint for
collection of cotton, distribution of inputs, marketing of food crops and
farmer access by field staff.   Continuation and expansion of SOTOCO's
feeder road reconstruction and maintenance activities is therefore
essential to provide the access required to achieve the project's
objectives.
2.09      Water Availability.   Access to potable water is a significant
constraint to rural development in most areas of Togo. Perennial streams
are scarse and sub-surface water is generally deep, substantially deter-
mining demographic distribution within a generally fertile rainfed farming
ecosystem.   Furthermore,  many villages must fetch water from sources
several  miles  away,  entailing  substantial  family  labour  and,  quite
commonly, actual movement of the village population to a perennial water
source during the dry season.   In response to this problem, a national
program to develop tubewells is underway and would be supported by the
project (para 3.22).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      Objectives.  The project would be a follow-up to the First Rural
Development Project in Cotton Areas (Credit 741, FY78). As such it would



- 11 -
continue the expansion of cotton production but would place more emphasis
than under the first project on food crops grown by participating farmers.
Greater usage)of animal traction would also be promoted.   SOTOCO would
continue to be the project executing agency and its efficiency would be
upgraded through staff training and provision of technical assistance with
particular emphasis on redressing past weaknesses (para 1.14) and
upgrading  of  field  services.    Associated  infrastructure  required  to
support these objectives (feeder roads, village water supply, some
buildings)  would  also  be  provided.    In  addition  to  its  production
objectives, the project would aim to build up SOTOCO's managerial and field
services capacity so as to provide the future option for a possible
restructuring of SOTOCO into a specialized cotton agency and a separate
regionally managed, extension service (para 4.10). The project would also
provide support to Government's national seed multiplication program.
3.02      Summary Description.   The above general objectives would be
achieved through a five-year project comprising the following activities:
(i) upgrading of key departments within SOTOCO including provision
of technical assistance and vigorous recruitment and training
(on the job and short-term training fellowships) of Togolese
personnel.    Such  institutional  strengthening  would  include
upgrading of the financial department and the industrial (cotton
marketing, processing and transport) department;
(ii)  strengthening of SOTOCO's extension service including further
emphasis on polyvalent training, whole farm planning, refinement
of the recently established training and visit system,
establishment of small farmer groups for extension and coopera-
tive  activities,  improved  input  supply  and  primary  cotton
marketing activities, and decentralization of responsibilities;
(iii)  multiplication and distribution of improved food crop seeds;
(iv)  applied research on cotton, food crops and farming systems;
(v) encouragement of animal traction through training, animal health
and credit for purchase of oxen and equipment;
(vi)  promotion  of bio-degradable  pesticides  to reduce  losses  of
traditionally stored food crops;
(vii) provision through credit or cash of farm inputs and equipment
relative to the above, including streamlining of distribution
and accounting procedures;
(viii) reconstruction of some 950 km of feeder roads and periodic main-
tenance of some 2,100 km of existing feeder roads so as to
provide basic access for extension, input supply and marketing
activities;
(ix)  establishment of 400 village tubewells to support agricultural
development in agronomically suitable areas where agricultural
productivity is constrained by the difficulties encountered and
substantial time involved in obtaining water for household use;



- 12 -
(x) additional storage capacity and minor infrastructure to increase
annual ginning capacity of existing factories and provision of
trucks for transport of inputs and cotton products;
(xi)  establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation unit;
(xii) additional buildings (field stores, regional offices, workshops,
houses for staff, expansion of the headquarters office);
(xiii)  consultancy services for the preparation of a possible third phase
project; and
(xiv) support to the Ministry of Rural Development's national seed
multiplication program including the creation of a small seed
farm to maintain and produce breeders seed for food crops,
a seed quality control unit attached to the seed farm to monitor
the quality of seed produced at all multiplication stages in
Togo and creation of a coordinating committee and secretariat
to coordinate countrywide production.
B. Detailed Features
3.03      Agronomic Packages.  Agronomic packages would be largely based
on techniques promoted under the first project and would cover: improved
crop husbandry with particular attention to timely sowing, plant density,
weeding and rotational practices; usage of fertilizers and improved
varieties; spraying of cotton and selective usage of pesticides on other
crops; and post harvest protection.
3.04      For cotton,  the recommended variety remains BOU.   Its latest
selections have shown a yield potential of 3,200 kg/ha of seed cotton, a
ginning out-turn of over 41% and satisfactory fibre characteristics.   A
well tested fertilizer compound NPKSB (15-25-15-5-1.8) would be applied at
the rate 200 kg/ha in all areas with an additional 50 kg/ha of urea in the
Central  and Plateau  regions.   Better  pest  control would  involve  six
sprayings (ULV) of a synthetic insecticide (pyrethrinoid - 3 litres/ha) at
12 day intervals commencing 50 days after planting. Better and timelier
observance of the technical package (especially planting) would be
stressed.
3.05      The  food crops covered would be maize,  sorghum,  groundnuts,
paddy and cowpeas.  Initially, the maize variety would be the hybrid NHI
which has a yield potential of over 3 t/ha.  With a growing period of 110
days, it is well suited to precede cotton in the bimodal rainfall areas
(Plateau). For the other areas the composite, La Posta, would initially be
utilized.    Intensive maize  variety  screening  is already  ongoing  and
varieties are likely to become available to replace the hybrid NHI, for
which seed has to be replaced every year, and the La Posta which has grains
that are harder to mill than the local varieties. A well tested fertilizer
compound NPK (15-15-15) at a rate of 100 kg/ha and 50 kg/ha of urea would



- 13 -
be applied in all regions except Plateau where the compound doses would be
150 kg/ha. Through testing at IRAT field stations over the past years, two
varieties of sorghum have been identified (219 with a cycle of 110 days and
517 with 150 days) that are suitable for the project area, with yield
potentials of 2 t/ha.   Fertilization with 100 kg/ha of the compound NPK
(15-15-15) and 50 kg/ha of urea is recommended.   Groundnut research has
identified two varieties suited for the project area (149-A for the Plateau
and RMP-12 for all other regions) with yield potentials of over 2 t/ha.
Together with better and timelier cultural practices, 100 kg/ha of the
compound NPK (15-15-15) would be applied.   It is only recently  that
research  work  was  initiated  on  rainfed  paddy  (grown  by  farmers  in
unimproved swamplands). Two varieties, the D-52-37 for the Savanna and IR-
841 for the other regions with yield pontentials of 3 t/ha have been found
suitable. Fertilizer applications would involve 150 kg/ha of NPK (15-15-
15) and 50 kg/ha of urea. Vita 5 is the cowpeas variety showing the best
adaptation and highest yield potential  (1,100 kg/ha).   No  fertilizer
application is recommended.   All of the above mentioned varieties are
currently being produced by SOTOCO and successfully used by farmers.
3.06      Adoption of these techniques is expected to occur in two phases,
the first one involving better and timelier cultural practices and the
second, acceptance of improved varieties and use of fertilizers. As these
packages are gradually adopted by farmers, average yields are expected to
increase as tabulated below. Average yield estimates are based on results
obtained by research and yields achieved by progressive farmers prorated
for the crop husbandry performance of an average farmer.
Yield Estimates (kg/ha) -/
Crop               Present   Stage I   Stage II                Achieved by:
Progressive    Research
Farmers
Cotton               900         -       1,060           2,000           3,200
Maize                700        900      1,130           2,100            3,000
Sorghum              650        850      1,200           1,600           2,000
Groundnuts           650        800      1,000           1,500           2,100
Paddy (rainfed)      750      1,000      1,400           2,000           3,000
Cowpeas              350        500        800             900           1,100
1/ Stage I involves local varieties with improved crop husbandry.
Stage II involves improved varieties, improved crop husbandry, use of
fertilizer and (selectively) pesticides.



- 14 -
3.07      Food  Crop  Storage.    Food  crops  are  stored  by  farmers  in
traditional thatch covered, raised bins made of wood and woven cereal and
grass stems in the south and compacted earth in the north. Current losses
due to insect attacks during storage are about 15% and can be reduced to an
estimated 5% by application of a biodegradable insecticide (actillic).
Actillic would be sold by SOTOCO to farmers for mixing with the grains to
be stored and subsequent regular spraying from the outside. This low cost
measure (about CFAF 2,600, US$8 on average for a typical farm) would
realize food crop savings equivalent to about CFAF 13,500 (US$40) per farm.
In parallel to these measures, IRAT is conducting research on simple improved
on-farm  (or farmer  group)  storage  structures.   A pilot demonstration
program for such stores is being conducted by the GTZ assisted Central
Region Project and a pilot component would be included under the proposed
Notse Rural Development Project. If technically and economically success-
ful, improved food crop stores could subsequently be promoted on a wider
scale in Togo.
3.08      Field Services.  The project would consolidate and improve upon
the extension system that has been successfully initiated under the first
project.   Principal innovations would be: emphasis on the "whole farm"
approach with greater attention to food crops; further refinement of the
recently established "training and visit" system and greater emphasis on
upgrading field staff skills; decentralization of field level responsibi-
lities; introduction of an audio-visual unit; improved field organisation
of input distribution, credit and cotton marketing; and, encouragement of
farmer groups.
3.09      The extension service would be organized as shown in Chart II. At
the regional level there would be a regional director, an assistant
director, a trainer and assistant trainer, an animal traction supervisor
and a supervisor for farmer groups and credit operations plus support staff
(clerks, secretaries, drivers).   Each of the four regional directorates
(plus the sub-regional directorate for the Bassar/Mo area) would head
about four to five sectors (20 in all) consisting of a sector chief and an
"intendant" which would in turn head about four sub-sectors (90 in all by
PY5), consisting of a sub-sector chief and about 8 extension agents (725 in
all by PY5).   The new elements in this structure are the addition of a
regional  supervisor  for  farmer  groups  and  credit  (para  3.12)  and an
intendant for each sector.  The intendant's role would be as a deputy to
the sector chief responsible for administering the ordering, stocking,
bookkeeping and distribution of farm inputs, the maintenance of data for
the sector and the organization of cotton marketing, thereby releasing
more of the sector and sub-sector chiefs' time to extension activities.
3.10      The field staff training program would continue the pre-season
preparatory courses which would be complemented by visual aids. The two-
weekly training and visit meetings would be expanded to include production
technology for "packages" involving the principal crops in each ecological
zone.   Extension agents in each sector would meet with sector and sub-
sector chiefs and trainers for training/demonstrations and to review the
progress of the past period and set the program for the next two weeks. An
audio-visual unit would also be established with a chief officer respon-
sible for preparing or procuring and reproducing literature, films and



- 15 -
tapes as aids for extension agents, plus an assistant who would travel the
regions operating a mobile cinema van and distributing literature.   Two
organisational innovations would be to improve the links with the animal
traction service and, where suitable, to initiate training for farmer
groups (para 3.12).
3.11      Overall supervision of the extension service would be provided
through the headquarters based director (an internationally recruited
specialist for the first four years) and deputy director of extension who
would work closely with the director and deputy director of the training
service and the section for promotion of farmer groups and cooperatives.
Resulting from improved organisation and increased support services, the
ratio of extension agents to participating farmers would decline from 1:75
at project initiation to 1:90 in year three (1:300 if non participating
farmers are included).  Furthermore, despite an increase of 23,400 (56%) in
the number of participants between years 1 and 5, the number of SOTOCO
professional field officers would expand by only 145 (intendants: 20,
training and cooperatives: 5, sub-sector chiefs: 15 and extension agents:
105), or 20%. In view of the investments under the first project, minimal
new investments are envisaged for SOTOCO field services. Provision would
be made for enlarging the regional/sub-regional offices, vehicles, audio-
visual  equipment  and radio  telephones  for  remote  areas.   Additional
village input stores (approximately 425) would also be included sufficieni
to augment those constructed during the first project to provide one 25 m
store per extension agent.   Built with farmer assistance,  these stores
would provide centres for distributing inputs and organising marketing and
other activities.
3.12      Farmer Groups and Credit Operations.  In support of Government's
efforts to coordinate and promote farmer group development through the
National Centre for Promotion of Cooperatives and associated regional
offices, a new post would be created at SOTOCO Headquarters of farmer group
and credit development officer. Together with a deputy and four regional
farmer group development and credit officers, he would, in liaison with
regional centres for promotion of cooperatives, be responsible for
encouraging, on a pilot scale, the creation of small farmer groups (up to
30 families).   This  team would  instruct group organisers and project
extension staff in the objectives and administration of such farmer groups
and supervise the development of groups at the village level. Lessons from
the past would be taken into account. In the Maritime region, development
of cooperatives has been largely unsuccessful for three main reasons:
(i) cooperatives were generally far too large with a resultant lack
of rapport between cooperative members; (ii) the absence of an
effective technical package in the Maritime region and frequent reliance
entirely on food crops created technical and repayment difficulties;
and (iii) inadequate attention was paid to their organizational
structure and support by extension staff.   Initially the team's work
would include such activities as the promotion of food crop storage
and group marketing, the ordering of inputs and oxen cultivation. For the
first four project years, this unit would be managed by a training and
farmer  group  development  specialist  recruited  internationally.    The
objective would be to stimulate sociologically and financially viable farm



- 16 -
level structures for promotion of technical and organizational innovation
beyond the scope of an individual farmer which could be supported by credit
provisions from the CNCA. Specific economic benefits from this service are
not provided as they are difficult to estimate and the benefits from
getting successful farmer groups underway should be viewed in a longer term
perspective.
3.13      Animal Traction.  The limited population, restricted family size
and concomitant scarcity of casual labour presents a major constraint to
expanding the cultivated area in most project areas.  Promotion of oxen
cultivation offers scope both for reducing this constraint and of raising
yields through better timing and quality of cultivation.  The indigenous
cattle, traditonally reared in the north, adapt well to traction. However,
progress in promoting animal traction has been slow and the project's
animal traction service, working with the existing institutions in Togo,
would help rectify  this.   PRODEBO,  Government's  agency for training,
prophylactic  treatment  and  the  procurement  and  supply  of  oxen  and
implements is currently being reorganized and strengthened and is to be
renamed PROPTA (Projet de Promotion de la Traction Animale). PROPTA would
procure oxen and implements in line with annual work plans and would,
similarly, provide annual prophylactic treatment of the cattle involved
and advice on necessary supplementary feeding. Animal traction implements
and trailers would be purchased from the UNDP assisted UPROMA workshop at
Lama Kara and credit for such equipment and purchase of animals would be
provided  through  CNCA  (para  3.18).    An assurance was  obtained  from
Government during negotiations (para 8.01(c)) that SOTOCO would enter
into agreements with PROPTA, CNCA and UPROMA to this effect.
3.14      SOTOCO's animal  traction  service would  be upgraded  through
training or replacement of existing staff, and would consist of a service
chief, a deputy, an accountant, and four regional supervisors plus field
staff and laborers for training and destumping.   A consultant animal
traction specialist would also be hired to make periodic visits (about 22
months in total) during the first four years of the project to assist the
unit. Two new oxen training centers would be established at Atakpame and
Dapaong involving simple sheds and handling facilities, making a total of
six, at each of which a spray race would be constructed for acaricide
treatment.  A nucleus of cattle would be maintained at each centre as a
basis for a four-week training course for the project's extension agents.
This would be undertaken by 36 specialised trainers who would subsequently
spend four weeks in the villages with the extension agents supervising the
training of groups of participants. Because of the treed nature of much of
the virgin land, it is preferable to remove tree stumps mechanically to
prepare the ground for oxen cultivation.   Therefore, the purchase of 23
sets of manually operated winches would be financed, each manned by two
operators who would work with the farmers.  Farmers would be charged the
full cost of equipment and animals purchased but would receive training and
assistance as necessary with destumping free, although they would
contribute their labor to the destumping teams.
3.15      While  the  main  impact  would  be  through  training  of  oxen
belonging to existing cattle owning farmers, particularly in the north,
with an overall target of 1,125 pairs, emphasis would also be placed on



- 17 -
introducing animal traction to non cattle owning families and in areas
where cattle ownership and animal traction is less common.   Therefore,
1,000 pairs of oxen are targeted for purchase on CNCA credit through PROPTA.
The destumping brigades are, additionally, expected to clear 3,500 ha in
the course of the project.   In total a minimum of 10,000 ha per year are
expected to be cultivated using work oxen by the end of the five-year
period. Several factors provide reason to expect an impact at this level
rather than the modest achievement under the first project's pilot
exercise (90 pairs as against a target of 350): (i) the unit would for the
first time be appropriately staffed and would include consultancy support;
(ii) some improvements to staffing are already underway; (iii) Government
has recently placed a high policy priority on development of animal
traction which is also now reflected by SOTOCO's management; and (iv) the
creation of UPROMA and PROPTA will facilitate the project units efforts.
3.16      Input  Supply  and  Credit.        Crop  inputs  (improved  seeds,
fertilizers and pesticides) would be distributed as at present through the
directorate of production services and the regional extension system in
coordination with the industrial department (transportation) and financial
department (maintenance of accounts and financing), supported at the field
level by the intendants and additional field stores to be introduced under
the project (paras 3.09 and 3.11).   A departure from current practices
would be that SOTOCO would purchase fertilizer and pesticides directly
without passing through Government's input procurement agency, the
"Service des Engrais et Moyens de Production".   An assurance that this
arrangement would be in effect for the 1983/84 growing season was
obtained during negotiations (para 8.01a).  While the Government service
is managed adequately, it is constrained by delayed funding from the
Treasury and its comittments to other projects, and involves an unnecessary
intermediate step for orders that are already sufficiently large to
benefit from bulk ordering under international competitive bidding.
3.17      Seasonal inputs would be provided by SOTOCO on a cash or credit
basis for cotton growing farmers and on a cash basis for non-cotton growing
farmers.  This restriction is currently necessary in view of the previous
poor experience in Togo for credit recovery not secured by cotton.  For
cotton growing farmers, credit would be recovered as at present during
SOTOCO's cotton marketing operations, a system which has achieved a
recovery rate of over 98%.   Extension staff would safeguard against a
cotton farmer's ability to repay credit on food crops by using as a general
but judgementally applied guide the criterion that total credit on all his
inputs should not exceed 50% of expected gross revenues from the farmer's
planned cotton area.
3.18      All credit not secured by cotton would be provided by the Caisse
Nationale du Credit Agricole (CNCA) in collaboration with the project
extension  service.    In view of  the expected  limited  scale  of  these
operations, additional facilities are not envisaged for CNCA under the
project. Credit applications supported by the extension agent responsible
and approved by the sector chief and cooperative section chief, would
ultimately be decided on by the regional CNCA managers. Seasonal loans,
extending for 12 months, and medium term loans, extending for 36 months,
would be subject to the currently applied annual interest of 10 percent.



- 18 -
Where loans are made to farmer groups the members would, however, be
individually responsible for repayment. The current interest rate is low
in view of expected international and domestic inflation rates of between
6 to 10%, administrative costs and risk coverage.   This distortion is
however, far outweighed by Government's current price subsidies on
fertilizers, the subject of an assurance concerning phasing out of such
subsidies (paras 6.10; 8.01(j)). The project's medium term credit provided
through CNCA would not be financed by IDA and is small in relation to
total credit provisions provided by CNCA.
3.19      Applied Agronomic Research.   The applied agricultural research
program, successfully initiated under the first project, would be
continued with appropriate modifications under the second project.   As
previously, the program would be subcontracted by SOTOCO to IRCT (cotton)
and IRAT (food crops) in order to realize economies whilst benefiting from
the senior staff and back-up support available from these two estabished
research  agencies.    Improvements  would  reflect  the  farm approach  to
development rather than the crop approach followed so far. To this effect,
an agro-economic research component, managed by IRCT in close cooperation
with IRAT would be added to the research program to provide feed back
information on the farmers reaction to and adoption of improved and
intensified cultural practices. Data would be gathered at the farm level
by 5 surveyors located in the five main ecological zones and analyzed by a
supervisor assisted by consultants.   IRAT's food crop research program
would be continued on crops such as maize, sorghum, millet, groundnuts,
upland rice and cowpeas and would involve variety screening, fertili-
zation, herbicide use, crop rotation and traditional storage improvement
conducted at six trial sites representative of the project area. Existing
working relations with international and regional research institutions
such as IITA, CIMMYT, IDEESA and WARDA would also be reinforced. Applied
cotton research on IRCT's six local research stations would continue to
cover  the  genetic,  agronomic. and  pathologic  aspects  of  improving
production. Full details are in the project file. As previously, IRCT and
IRAT would prepare annual reports on research findings which would be
submitted to SOTOCO together with detailed proposals and a budget for the
forthcoming year. Assessment of research findings and approval of future
proposals and budgets would be made during the course of project
supervision missions.
3.20      Seed Multiplication for SOTOCO.  For cotton seed, breeders and
foundation seed would continue to be produced by IRCT under a contract with
SOTOCO. Further mnultiplication of first and second generation seed would
be done on SOTOCO's 8 seed multiplication farms. The last multiplication
stage would be done, as presently, on farmers fields in the Savanna Region
and recovered during ginning of the Savanna crop. For food crops, breeders
and foundation seed would continue during the first two years of the
project to be produced for SOTOCO under a contract with IRAT.  From PY3
onwards, foundation seed would be provided by the national farm for
maintenance and production of foundation seed to be established under the
project  (para 3.21).   This would  then be multiplied by SOTOCO's seed
multiplication farms. Should the proposed Notse seed farm and the existing
Central Region seed farm be sufficiently geared up to produce all of the
country's first generation seed by the last years of the project, SOTOCO



- 19 -
would also subcontract the first generation production cycle to these two
centers, restricting itself to the second and (where appropriate-eg maize,
groundnuts) third generation multiplication stages (details of above in
Project File).
3.21      Support to National Seed Multiplication Program.  In support of
Government's objectives to streamline and coordinate the production of
food crop seeds within a monitored and controlled national program (para
1.22), the project would support three measures, administered directly
under the Ministry of Rural Development's General Directorate of
Agriculture, to achieve this program: (i) establishment of a small seed
farm in the Central Region's Sotouboua area to maintain varieties and
produce foundation seed; (ii) a seed quality control unit attached to the
seed farm to monitor the quality of seed produced throughout the country at
all multiplication stages; and (iii) operating funds for a small committee
plus permanent secretariat to coordinate the national seed multiplication
program.  The committee would include representatives from the regions and
the agricultural development projects and research institutes involved in
seed testing, production and usage and would serve to ascertain needs, plan
future production and provide  feed back on farmers requirements.   A
permanent secretary with experience and appropriate seniority would be
appointed in the General Directorate of Agriculture for administration of
the program. For key policy decisions the committee would be chaired by
the General Director of Agriculture or the Minister. The research agencies
(eg. IRAT) would continue to produce breeders seed. The existing seed farm
in the Central Region, assisted by the Federal Republic of Germany's GTZ,
and the proposed seed farm at Notse to be financed with assistance from
IFAD (para 1.10), are eventually envisaged to be entrusted with
production of all foundation seed for food crops.   This would be sold
to the various projects (including SOTOCO) and regional authorities in
Togo for multiplication to commercial seed for their respective project
areas.   These arrangements would allow for maximum flexibility at the
regional and project levels during the last stages of production, but would
introduce the necessary quality control and coordination of national needs
while reducing production costs at the critical breeders and foundation
seed stages where efforts are currently duplicated at considerable expense
in all projects with a seed production component.   The three elements
described above would thus furnish the missing pieces required to achieve a
national seed production program within a coherent, planned and controlled
strategy.
3.22      Rural Water Supply.   Some 400 tubewells equipped with manual
labor operated pumps and a stock of spare parts would be financed in villages
without ready access to dry season water. This component would help alle-
viate the water shortage problem in many villages covered by the project where
shortage of household water is a constraining factor on further agricul-
tural development and settlement in fertile areas otherwise well suited to
rural development (para 2.09). This component is designed to harmonise with
the national strategy for development of such tubewells and would make use
of the proven existing institutions. SOTOCO would enter into a contract with
the Ministry of Public Works' "Direction de l'Hydraulique et de l'Energie"
(DHE) for supervision of the component and DHE would be assisted by
consultants.  The drilling contract would be awarded under international
competitive bidding, the pumps would be the proven Vergnet-type to conform



- 20 -
with the existing stock of spare parts and to simplify training of local
mechanics. They would be financed by the FAC (see financing plan at Table 2).
The EDF has tentatively agreed to support this component through the
continued financing of training for village mechanics (simple pump or well-
head repairs), maintenance of a stock of spare parts and continued support
from maintenance brigades for major maintenance. A formal letter of com-
mitment from the EDF has been requested.  Contributions from beneficiary
villages would take the form of provision of labor (construction of fencing,
drainage and the well-head platform and free board to construction crews
during construction, appointment of a village mechanic for training and
subsequent repair work and purchase of spare parts. The above technical,
administrative and financial arrangements follow those used successfully
under the previously executed tubewell development programs in Togo.
3.23      Tubewells  to be  financed would be located in the following
priority areas: eastern Savanna (about 150), the Bassar and Mo areas of the
Central region (about 200) and the area North and West of Notse in the
Plateau region (about 50).  The selection of villages would be based on
their proximity to dry season water, dejography (1 well/600 persons, i.e.
about 10 litres/person/day from a 6 m  per day well),  suitability for
further agricultural development and avoidance of duplication with the
national tubewell development program.  SOTOCO would prepare the initial
list of proposed villages together with justifications which, after review
and agreement with DHE, would be submitted to IDA for comment and approval.
An   assurance   to  this   effect  was   obtained   during  negotiations
(para 8.01b). SOTOCO's annual report would contain a section on the past and
proposed future program with an updated list as appropriate, and progress
and future orientations would be reviewed during project supervision.
Technical details and full selection criteria, administrative arrangements
and reporting requirements are in the project file.
3.24      Feeder Road Development.   In view of the importance of feeder
roads to provide access for field staff, supply of inputs and crop
marketing (para 2.08), the second Project would continue to develop and
periodically maintain key feeder roads. Some 950 km of feeder roads would
be reconstructed and 2,100 km would receive periodic maintenance.
Road standards would be simple, single vehicle width gravel, based on
SOTOCO experience. Costs amount to CFAF 1.3 million/km (US$3,800) for
upgrading and average CFAF 75,000 (US$220) per km for maintenance (base
1982 terms including equipment amortization).   These are low due to the
prevalance of lateritic soils, generally flat terrain, high utilization
of plant (12 hours of continuous operation per day with two drivers has
been achieved by SOTOCO's road unit under the first project), general effi-
ciency of the SOTOCO unit and the basic but adequate standards chosen.
3.25      As  previously,  all  periodic  maintenance  would  be  done  by
SOTOCO's feeder roads unit but SOTOCO would only do half of the recons-
truction work, the remaining 475 km being subcontracted by SOTOCO to the
Feeder Roads Unit in the Ministry of Rural Works based on SOTOCO standards
and prices. This would provide continued support to the Ministry of Work's
feeder roads unit subsequent to completion in 1983 of the IDA supported
feeder roads project (Credit 810). This project concentrates primarily on



- 21 -
major rural road linkages and no duplication with the Second Rural Develop-
ment Project road program is involved.   If the performance of the Rural
Works feeder road unit continues to improve, the merging after PY5 of the
SOTOCO unit within the Ministry of Rural Works could be considered.   An
assurance was obtained during negotiations that the contract and any
subsequent amendments with the Ministry of Rural Works Unit would be
subject to prior approval by IDA (para 8.01(c)).  SOTOCO's annual report
would contain a special section on the feeder roads program including past
progress, costs and future proposals.   Full details are in the Project
File.
3.26      Cotton Ginning,  Transportation and Workshops.   An industrial
department of SOTOCO headed by an internationally recruited specialist,
would be created under the project to handle these interrelated activities
which,   to  date,   have  been  haphazardly  managed   with   resultant
inefficiencies,  underutilization  of plant,  and high  operating  costs.
Existing ginning capacity in Togo consists of SOTOCO's new 22,000 t/annum
ginnery at Lama Kara,  two privately operated delapidated ginneries at
Atakpame with a combined capacity of 10,000 t/annum and a new 22,000
t/annum ginnery managed by SOTOCO at Notse.   Construction of a 4,000 t
store for seed cotton at the new Notse ginnery would be financed to prolong
the ginning season. National seed cotton production is estimated to reach
47,700  t by PY5.   Thus,  these  improvements  would  provide  sufficient
capacity for the project period although a third new ginnery in the Central
region and the phasing out of the two old privately owned ginneries is
likely to be necessary eventually.
3.27      Transportation of seed cotton, cotton fibre, cotton seed and
farm inputs is particularly poorly administered at present. SOTOCO has a
fleet of 67 trucks, 52 of which have trailers and were purchased in 1980
under the First Project. Prior to this, SOTOCO supplemented its own fleet
using contracted private sector truckers, although this entailed a number
of difficulties, particularly for journeys off the main roads which were
seldom attractive to such truckers.  Through increased efficiency, mean
round trips can be progressively reduced to half the present averages. For
example, the current 2.5 day average for collection of seed cotton is made
up predominately of standing time during loading and unloading plus slow
servicing.   This will require better organised and monitored logistical
control, advance liaison with field services and ginneries during cotton
collection, streamlined truck servicing and fueling, minimization of empty
trips (e.g return legs with inputs during delivery of fibre to the port),
further driver training, two drivers per vehicle and driver bonuses for
overtime.  With such improvements, fully attainable under the intensive
management envisaged to be established through the project, truck fleet
requirements would only need to be expanded by eight trucks plus
replacement, during PYs 3 to 4, of the 52 existing trucks.  Considerable
savings would be made on operating costs.   While,  for the purposes of
project costing, a self-contained SOTOCO transport fleet has been assumed,
subcontracting to private sector truckers would be used to the extent
possible. Upon taking up his post, the industrial director would undertake
a review of SOTOCO's transport and processing procedures and needs to serve
as a starting point for his future work program. Terms of reference are in
the project file and are intended to follow-on from the detailed consultant



- 22 -
studies that have recently been done and which point to areas that merit
further refinement., The study would include a further examination of the
transport sub-contracting option.   Cofinancer approval of future truck
purchases, provisionally included in project cost estimates, would be
contingent upon the study's findings in this respect.
3.28      A new maintenance  garage  is under construction next to the
ginnery  at  Lama  Kara.    Another  repair-servicing  garage  would  be
constructed and equipped at Atakpame to replace the existing and
inadequate rented hangar plus two small subsidiary garages at Dapaong and
Notse. These garages would handle servicing and repairs of the project's
trucks, light vehicles and agricultural and road brigade equipment. For
major overhauls of heavy plant, commercially operated facilties at Lome
would be used. Full details on ginning, transportation and workshops are
in the project file.
3.29      Mo Plain Development.  This 75,000 ha plain in the north central
zone on the border with Ghana is isolated from the rest of Togo by a range
of hills to the east and the Mo river to the north but has good agricul-
tural potential and a rapidly growing population (currently about 5,000).
The proposed Credit would therefore assist in financing low cost
(US$70,000) access by means of a raised concrete track with culverts
passable for eight months per year by vehicles, plus a simple pedestrian
suspension bridge. Development measures in the plain would be similar to
those in the rest of the project area; establishment of an extension
service, essential feeder roads and tubewells,and technical recommen-
dations as for the north central zone.
3.30      Buildings.  In addition to the constructions specified in paras
3.11, 3.14, 3.21, and 3.26, project investments would include construction
of 10 houses for the project management staff and a slight expansion of the
SOTOCO headquarters office at Atakpame.  In view of the dispersed nature
and small size of these constructions, larger structures would be built
under local contracts and smaller structures (for example extension agent
input stores, sheds for seed multiplication and oxen training centers),
would   be done by local builders  and village  labour using materials
supplied by SOTOCO. Its engineering division has the capacity for design,
preparation of bidding documents and supervision and would be responsible
for the project construction program with assistance from regional staff
for site supervision.
3.31      Monitoring and Evaluation.   Under  the first project it was
envisaged that monitoring and evaluation would be done by the Ministry of
Rural Development's "Direction des Enquetes et Statistiques Agricole"
(DEESA) which is responsible for collating agricultural statistics and has
a countrywide field service of enumerators.   Reliance was placed on the
strengthening of DEESA that was to have taken place under the Maritime
Region Rural Development Project (Credit 638), which included financing
for extra vehicles, equipment and an expatriate specialist, and provisions
under Credit 741 were therefore restricted to a technical officer based at
Atakpame, a vehicle, equipment and short term consultancy services. Faced
with other ongoing survey committments and beset by lack of operating funds
and trained enumerators, DEESA's limited capacity did not in the event
allow for monitoring and evaluation work relevant to SOTOCO. Furthermore,



- 23 -
DEESA's evaluation specialist was not recruited until the end of the first
project's third year and as his first priority had to get monitoring and
evaluation work underway in the Maritime Region. Field data relevant to
SOTOCO was therefore limited to information collected by extension staff
and records of input usage and cotton production with notable gaps as
concerns food crop production, cultural practices and yields, farming
systems and socio-economic data.   Such information will be particularly
critical in the project's second phase and the usefulness of project
monitoring and evaluation is now fully recognized by SOTOCO's management
and Government.   A start was made in 1981 with  the employment  of a
consultancy firm to analyse SOTOCO's past extension staff records of
participating farmers' crop areas, input usage, cotton yields and (mainly
for cotton) cultural practices. For the project a specific monitoring and
evaluation unit for SOTOCO has been requested.
3.32      In response to these needs, the establishment of a monitoring
and evaluation unit within SOTOCO would be supported under the project. It
would be staffed with an internationally recruited specialist (his
appointment is a condition of project effectiveness, para 4.06), an
assistant unit chief, one supervisor per region (four), five controllers,
twenty enumerators (one per sector), a statistician, seven data processing
personnel and support staff (drivers and secretary) and funds would be
provided for purchase and operation of vehicles and field and office
equipment.   The unit would report directly to the General Director of
SOTOCO.  To the extent possible within DEESA's own work program, DEESA
field staff would be recruited into the SOTOCO unit so as to avoid
functional redundancy. The SOTOCO unit would also liaise with DEESA which
would itself receive some continued consultant support under the IFAD
financed  Notse  Rural  Development  Project.    SOTOCO's  monitoring  and
evaluation unit would measure and evaluate the project's physical progress
and effectiveness, adoption, yield increments, and reactions by farmers to
project recommendations, and constraints, inefficiencies and potentials
requiring further attention.  Particular emphasis would be placed on the
collation and analysis of data on food crops. It would also collect base
line data required for planning future actions, undertake special studies
as appropriate, and--in liaison with the Project's financial department--
analyse the financial and economic efficiency of SOTOCO's internal
operations. The unit would thus serve as a management tool for providing
feedback on project impact, reorientation of activities as appropriate and
planning future actions.   Evaluation data would be summarized in the
project's quarterly and annual progress reports which would be submitted
to Government and the cofinancers and in special reports following each
survey or study, these to be submitted within three months of completion of
survey  field work.   An assurance  to this effect was obtained during
negotiations (para 8.01(b)).   Initial guidelines for the monitoring and
evaluation unit are contained in the project file and would be revised, as
appropriate, during the course of project supervision.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Organization.  As under the first project, SOTOCO would be the
implementing agency, either directly or through arrangements between



- 24 -
6SOTOCO and other specialised agencies (para 4.03). An exception to this
would be the project component supporting the national seed multiplication
program (para 3.21) and the preparation of a possible third project (para
4.13) which would be managed separately under the Ministry of Rural
Development's (MRD) General Directorate of Agriculture. SOTOCO is a state
eriterprise created in 1974 as a national cotton development agency with
responsibility for extension work, technical support and primary marketing
of cotton.  Its responsibilities were amended under the first project to
include food crops cultivated in cotton areas and it is now increasingly
handling  cotton processing  (para  3.26).    SOTOCO  is an  independently
managed entity under an Administrative Council including representatives
of the key ministries involved (Rural Development, State Enterprises,
Commerce, Finance, Plan, Interior) plus the General Directors of the CNCA
and OPAT and a representative from each of the regional DRDRs.   This
provides an appropriate forum, although in practice most decision making
is undertaken with the Ministry of Rural Development for technical matters
and the Ministry of State Enterprises for financial and administrative
matters in consultation with the Ministry of Plan on general policy
questions.   Given the extensive delegation of all day-to-day decision
making to the. General Director of SOTOCO, the system works well and would
not be changed.
4.02      SOTOCO is managed by a Togolese General Director under whom
are several headquarters departments and a regionalized field service.
Staff inexperience in these departments has necessitated over cen-
ralized management by the General Director and his senior staff and
resulted in low efficiency in some areas (para 1.14).  To correct this,
SOTOCO headquarters would be reorganized into four main departments--
agricultural production, finance and administration, marketing, and
industrial--and  an  engineering  division.    The  reorganization  would
involve consolidation and clearer definition of responsibilities for the
existing  agricultural   production,   and   finance  and  administration
departments and the engineering division, (paras 3.11 and 5.12) and the
creation of a new marketing department to be responsible for cotton
marketing and an industrial department to be responsible for factory
processing, transport management and the workshops and garage (paras
3.26 to 3.28), and of a monitoring and evaluation unit (para
3.31).    Chart  I  illustrates  the  new  division  of  responsibilities.
These organizational units would provide the necessary headquarters
support to the regionalized field services which, with some minor changes
described in paras 3.08 to 3.11, would maintain their existing structure
(Chart II). Coordination of unit work programs would be achieved through
regular meetings chaired by the General Director.  To further reduce the
administrative workload of the General Director, the vacant post of Deputy
General Director would be filled by a suitable Togolese. Assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that the General Director
and the Deputy General Director would have at all times qualifications
and experience  acceptable  to IDA.   The nomination of  a new General
Director would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 8.02(i).
4.03      To make best  use of existing organizations  in Togo and  to
minimize the range of expertise and activities required within SOTOCO, a
number of other organizations would be involved in the project: the DHE
for implementation of the tubewell program (para 3.22); the Feeder Roads
Unit of the Ministry of Rural Works for part of feeder road construction



- 25 -
(para 3.25); PROPTA for supporting animal traction (para 3.13); IRCT and
IRAT for applied research (para 3.19); and CNCA for provision of medium
term credit (paras 3.12 and 3.18).  In the longer term, the first stage of
food crop seed multiplication would also be done under the nationally
organized program (para 3.21). In addition, SOTOCO would continue with the
present arrangements with OPAT for cotton exporting but with a revised
cotton marketing bareme (para 6.12).  Contractual arrangements governing
these linkages are described in the relevant paragraphs and would be
subject to prior agreement by IDA.   An assurance  to this effect was
obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(c)).
4.04      Staffing,  Technical Assistance and Fellowships.   In view of
SOTOCO's past weaknesses in certain critical areas (para 1.14), and with a
view towards building up a trained and experienced Togolese staff within a
technically and administratively strong organization, particular emphasis
would be placed upon recruitment and training of national staff and
upgrading of efficiency in all departments. This would be tackled through
recruitment of some additional staff, the provision of salary premiums
where necessary, a training fellowship program, provision of technical
assistance staff and attention to on-the-job training.
4.05      Internationally  recruited  staff  are  anticipated  for  the
following positions: the Directors of the Agricultural Production Depart-
ment, the Finance and Administration Department and the Industrial
Department; the heads of the engineering division and the monitoring
and evaluation unit; the chief of the extension services; the chief of the
farmer groups and credit service, a cost accountant, a seed production
agronomist for SOTOCO, an agronomist for the national seed production
component and two workshop managers for the Atakpame and Lama Kara garages.
This total of 12 positions would aggregate to 42 man-years plus consultancy
visits amounting to 22 months for the animal traction component.
Expatriate staff terms of reference are contained in the project file and
place emphasis on training of local staff. Financing provisions would also
be provided for 24 man-months of consultancy services for the preparation
of a possible third phase project (para 4.13) and for other needs that may
materialize during project execution.
4.06      The resident expatriate staff would be recruited if possible
through a single contract with a consultancy firm or group in order to
benefit from the back-up services provided under such an arrangement.
Subcontracting or informal linkages by the employed firm with other
consulting firms or with individuals is, however, most likely given the
range of expertise required which is seldom available in any one firm. An
assurance was obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(d))that the
selection and appointment, including terms of reference of all technical
assistance staff and of short term consultants would be in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines for usage of consultants (August 1981) and that IDA
approval of the qualifications and experience of all such selected staff
would  be  obtained  prior  to  their  appointment.    The  signing  of  a
satisfactory contract or contracts involving at least the following six
positions--the directors of the agricultural production, finance and
administration  and  industrial  departments  and  the  heads  of  the
extension service, engineering division and monitoring and evaluation
unit--would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 8.02).



- 26 -
4.07      The project's fellowship program would be designed to upgrade
the skills of Togolese staff.   CFAF 100 million (US$294,000) have been
provided for medium (about one year) to short term (typically one to three
months) visits or courses generally outside of Togo and would cover all
associated costs (e.g. travel expenses, accommodation, training fees,
books and subsistence).  Fellowships would respond to staff needs in all
aspects of the project (for details see project file). Project management
would be encouraged to use this facility energetically to upgrade Togolese
staff skills and to assist in preparing for a reduced expatriate
involvement.   The consulting firm and the individual expatriate  staff
would be responsible for assisting in identifying needs and opportunities
and the program would be administered by the Director of Agricultural
Production under the overall direction of the General Director in
consultation with unit heads.    Periodic  visits would  be  made  by  a
consultant training specialist to help identify staff needs and subse-
quently make contacts and assist in arrangements with appropriate
agencies.   To ensure close monitoring of this program while permitting
maximum flexibility for detailed arrangements to SOTOCO's management, the
program would be discussed and future orientations determined during each
supervision mission and project progress reports would contain a special
section on training achieved during the reporting period plus recommenda-
tions for the future.
4.08      All internationally recruited positions would initially be in
line management roles. However, a deputy (in some cases two), with clearly
defined responsibilities, would work closely with each expatriate staff.
The deputy staff would be expected to gradually take over responsibility
during the latter part of the project.  Prior to his eventual departure
each expatriate staff member would be expected to assume an advisory role
to facilitate this process. In initial selection of expatriate staff and
in subsequent performance evaluation, capacity for training of counterpart
and junior staff would be considered as important as the technical skills
provided by the expatriate.   Technical assistance arrangements would be
reviewed annually in order to identify needs as they occur and to permit
maximum flexibility in the transfer of responsabilities to Togolese staff.
4.09      The  project's  institution  strengthening  and  staff  build-up
objective cannot be achieved without support from Government and project
management in selecting and retaining competent staff and, where
necessary, replacing unsatisfactory staff.  Additionally, for some local
staff positions, experience has shown that higher salaries or salary
premiums are necessary to attract qualified staff.  These matters would
therefore be followed closely during project supervision.   For the key
posts of General Director and Assistant General Director of SOTOCO, an
assurance was obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(e)) that these
positions would be filled at all times by persons with qualifications,
experience and capabilities satisfactory to IDA.
4.10      The National Extension System and SOTOCO's Future Role.  In the
longer term, Government envisages that SOTOCO's role would be reduced to
that of a specialized cotton development agency responsible for marketing,
processing, input supply and provision of technical advice to the cotton
sector, leaving extension and other supporting rural development
activities to a nationally administered extension service under the DRDRs



- 27 -
(para 1.09).  Nevertheless, for at least the five-year project implemen-
tation period, Government recognizes that the DRDRs and their extension
services are not sufficiently developed to handle these activities and
SOTOCO would, therefore, continue to act as a general rural development
agency in Togo's cotton areas.   The strengthening under the project of
SOTOCO's industrial and financial departments and general management
would, however, create the capacity for the possible eventual creation of a
separate company, possibly supported by foreign capital, for undertaking
the reduced  functions  described  above.   Similarly,  the upgrading and
regionalization of SOTOCO's field services could permit their release as a
well trained, polyvalent extension service to the DRDRs, and the subcon-
tracting of supporting services to specialized agencies that would take
place under the project (para 4.03), would serve to limit the future rural
development functions of the DRDRs to provision of extension services,
thereby reducing the range of services that they would n1eed to provide.
A consultant's study to assist the Government to analyse the above conside-
rations would be financed under the Second Technical Assistance Project.
4.11      Arrangements already underway in certain areas (para 2.02) will
serve as test cases for this possible option. Currently they offer mixed
indications.   For instance, in part of the Savanna region, one project
administered  through  the  DRDR,  from which  SOTOCO  has  withdrawn  its
extension and rural development support services, has resulted in cotton
yields at less than half the previous levels and even food crop production,
though currently not easily monitored, appears to have suffered. On the
other hand, for the GTZ assisted project in the Central region, a clear
delineation of area responsibilities between DRDR and SOTOCO extension
staff has been made and SOTOCO back-up services for cotton production
techniques and marketing has been more successfully applied. The problems
encountered in the Savanna region project and elsewhere will have to be
redressed if Government's future objectives are to be attained. Further-
more, the presence in many areas of both SOTOCO and DRDR extension agents
is inefficient and would be tackled through clearer definition of
intervention zones during the course of the project, a matter that is
already being addressed on a case by case basis and would be encouraged
during supervision.
4.12      Reporting requirements.   In addition to the financial reports
described in para 5.12, SOTOCO's management would prepare an annual report
to be submitted to IDA not later than three months after the end of the
cotton growing year (i.e. by June 30th) summarizing the project's
achievements, comparing them to appraisal targets and commenting on key
problems and future priorities and needs.  Additionally, brief quarterly
reports, consisting largely of summary data sheets, would be submitted to
IDA within two month of the close of each quarter.   Assurances to the
above effect were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(f)). Individual
work  unit  heads  would  contribute  to  these  reports  which  would
subsequently be prepared by the Director of Agricultural Production in
liaison with the General Director.
4.13      Preparation of Possible Third Project.  Preparation of a possible
third project would be done by the Government with substantial assistance
from SOTOCO, using consultants selectively in specific areas and for final
analysis and report compilation. This is anticipated to be done in PY3.
IDA's agreement for hire of additional consultants would be contingent
upon agreement of the follow-up project's content and orientation, and



- 28 -
subsequent consultant selection and TORs would be governed by the
conditions of para 4.06.
V. COSTS AND FINANCING
5.01      Project  Costs:   Project  costs  are estimated at CFAF  16,567
million (US$48.7 million) with a foreign exchange component at CFAF 11,356
million (US$33.4 million) or 69% of project costs. Project costs include
an estimated CFAF 768 million (US$2.3 million) of taxes, primarily on local
salaries and construction materials, as Government intends to continue to
allow tax exemptions on directly imported equipment, inputs and material,
and fuel for SOTOCO will also continue to be untaxed. This was confirmed
during negotiations.
5.02      Base costs (CFAF 12,326 million, US$36.3 million) are expressed
in mid-1982 prices and reflect recent costs incurred by SOTOCO supple-
mented by cost data from other agencies represented in Togo.   Physical
contingencies of 8% have been applied to capital costs (constructions and
equipment) and 10% to operating costs except wages, salaries and technical
assistance. Price contingencies have been applied as follows:
Expected Price Increases:
Annual Rates %                1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
Local Costs                    10         10         10         10         10
Fertilizer and Pesticides    11           10.5       10          9          9
Other Foreign Costs             8          7.5        7          6          6
Price increases for fertilizers and pesticides are based on projections
for these commodities.   Price increases for all other foreign costs are
based on estimates  of  international  inflation.   The price escalation
factors on local costs are based on estimated annual inflation for Togo
taking into account the composition of local costs. Cost estimates were
made in CFAF and converted to US$ at an exchange rate of CFAF 340: US$1.00,
based  on  the  expected  medium  term  average  conversion  rate.    Total
contingencies amount to CFAF 4,240 million (US$12.5 million) or 34% of base
costs (26% of total costs).  Detailed costs (Project File) are summarised
in Table 1 and a yearly breakdown is given in the Annex, Table 1.
5.03      Project cost estimates exclude operating costs for ginning and
transportation of cotton and inputs which will be covered under the OPAT-
SOTOCO bareme (para 6.12). They also exclude non incremental staffing and
operating costs for SOTOCO's headquarters, the field services and seed
multiplication and non-incremental costs for seasonal inputs.
5.04      Proposed Financing - Project Costs.  In view of Togo's difficult
current and medium term financial constraints it is proposed that external
financing should amount to 95% of net-of-tax project costs or CFAF 15,000
million, (US$44.1  million).   This would  be equivalent  to  all  of  the
project s foreign exchange costs plus CFAF 3,647 million (US$10.7 million)



Table 1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
% of
CFAF Million -----    -----US$ Million ------    Base
Local    Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign   Total   Cost
Headquarters Services                                 380      1,298      1,678    1.1         3.8      4.9      13.6
Extension Services                                    701      1,208      1,909    2.1         3.6      5.7      15.6
Seed Production                                       170        220        390    0.5         0.6      1.1       3.2
Applied Research                                      258        236        494    0.7         0.7      1.4       4.0
Animal Traction                                       359        397        756    1.0         1.2      2.2       6.2
Fertilizer and Pesticides                             125      1,218      1,343    0.4         3.6      4.0      10.9
Feeder Roads                                          609      1,773      2,382    1.8         5.2      7.0      19.4
Village Water Supply                                  600        850      1,450    1.8         2.5      4.3      11.8
Ginning/Storage Investments                            65         65        130    0.2         0.2      0.4       1.1
Transportation Investments                            176        891      1,067    0.5         2.6      3.1       8.7
Monitoring and Evaluation                             193        257        450    0.6         0.8      1.4       3.7
Support to National Seed Multiplication               111        166        277    0.3         0.5      0.8       2.3
Program
I, TOTAL BASE COST                                     3,747      8,579    12,326   11.0         25.2    36.3    100.0
Contingencies
Physical                                           181        623        804    0.5         1.8      2.3       6.5
Price Escalation                                 1,282      2,154      3,436    3.7         6.3    10.1       27.9
Total Contingencies                              1,463      2,777      4,240    4.2         8.1    12.4       34.4
II. TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  5,210    11,356    16,566   15.3           33.4    48.7    134.4
(including Taxes)
Taxes                                                 768       -            768    2.3         -       2.3        -
III. TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  4,442    11,356    15,798   13.0           33.4    46.4
(Net of Taxes)



- 30 -
or 82% of the net-of-tax local costs of the project (CFAF 4,442 million,
US$13  million).    Government's  contribution  to  project  costs  would
therefore amount to CFAF 1,574 million (US$4.6 million) or CFAF 806 million
(US$2.3 million) net of tax.
5.05      Recurrent Costs.  In addition to its CFAF 1,574 million (US$4.6
million) contribution to the costs of the project, the Government Treasury
would contribute CFAF 3,493 million (US$10.3 million) towards the recurrent
costs of SOTOCO's field services, headquarters and seed production (CFAF
2,155 million or US$6.3 million net of tax). A substantial part of this
(CFAF 1,928 million, US$5.7 million or CFAF 1,698 million, US$ 5.0 million,
net of tax) represents salaries for SOTOCO's non incremental local staff,
in particular for the field services.   The payment of salaries is made
through the Treasury's "General Budget" and, unlike funds provided through
its "Investment Budget", payments have generally been made promptly. The
above costs exclude costs incurred by SOTOCO to be reimbursed through
farmer payments for fertilizer or by OPAT under the bareme (e.g cotton
processing, marketing and transportation costs).   Short term credit for
these revolving and reimbursable costs is made to SOTOCO through Central
Bank loans provided via the intermediary of the CNCA which acts in this
instance as a commercial bank. Interest payments against such short term
funding is charged under the bareme.
5.06      The above estimates are based on the following assumptions: (i)
the OPAT-SOTOCO bareme is adjusted to include (a) the full operating costs
of cotton ginning and marketing operations, and (b) Government subsidies
on seasonal inputs (para 6.12); and (ii) subsidies on fertilizers are
progressively removed during the five-year project period and pesticides
continue to be covered in full under the bareme (para 6.10).  Background
and assurances relative to the above are contained in the paragraphs cited
and detailed project and recurrent cost estimates are in the Project File.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(g)) that all
funding required from the Treasury would be provided in full and in a
timely manner.
5.07      Financing  Plan:    The  proposed  repartition  of  project  cost
financing between IDA and other cofinancers is based on the amounts
indicated by such cofinancers and their preferences as concerns project
components and expenditure categories to be financed.  These preferences
have  been  accommodated within  the  overall  objective  of achieving an
administratively simple financing plan and are detailed in the Annex Table
2 with a summary at Table 2.  The CCCE and FAC would contribute CFAF 5,500
million (US$16.2 million) and CFAF 1,500 million (US$4.4 million)
respectively. Together with an IDA credits of US$23.5 million (CFAF 8,000
million) the proposed external financing amounts to US$44.1 million
equivalent (CFAF 15,000 million).
5.08      The contribution of FAC would be a grant and CCCE a 15 year loan
(including a grace period of 5 years) at 4.5% interest per year. The IDA
Credit would be on standard terms. These funds would be channeled through
the Central Bank, the Government agency for handling all official foreign
financing, and passed on by Government as grants (surpluses, para 6.13,
would be made by OPAT rather than SOTOCO and subsequently passed on to the
Government Treasury) on the following basis:



TABLE 2 : PROPOSED FINANCING PLANLA
TOTAL PROJECT COST  - - -    - - - - - - - - - - -  EXTERNAL FINANCING  - - - - - - - - - - -
Inclusive of Taxes Net of Taxes          IDA            CCCE              FAC           Total           Government   Farmers
CFAF Millions  ----------------------------------------- US$ 1000 -------------- o-f inancers             Treasury    Bareme
1. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for SOTOCO H.Q.,
National Seed Production, Ginning and Storage
and Transportation and Credit for Animal
Traction and Follow-up Project Study.                        2,556     7,518    7,294             (1)   101      (Q3) 6,q7Q                         Q t4) 7,080      ( 6)    438   -
2.  Expatriate Personnel.                                        1,693     4,980    4,980            (50) 2,481      (23) 1,149        (27) 1,350    (100) 4,980                -       -
3. Local Personnel and Operating Costs for SOTOCO H.Q.,
National Seed Production, SOTOCO Seed Production,
Applied Research, Field Services, Monitoring and
Evaluation and Feeder Roads; Buildings, Plant and
Equipment for Feeder Roads; Local Personnel for
Village Water Supply.                                        6,272    18,447   17,321            (59110,875      (27) 4,946            -           (86115,821         (14) 2,626   -
4. Fellowships and Studies; Incremental Fertilizer,
Pesticides, Sprayers and Batteries.                          2,178     6,406    6,406            (52) 3,303      (481 3,103            -          (100) 6,406              -
5. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for SOTOCO Seed
Production, Applied Research and Oxen Cultivation;
Local Personnel for Oxen Cultivation; Operating
Costs for Oxen Cultivation and Village Water Supply.           951     2,797    2,665                -                -            (72) 2,015      (72) 2,015        (28)   782    -
6. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for SOTOCO Field
Services.                                                    1,290     3,794    3,578            (96) 3,575                            -           (96) 3,575         (4) 219       -
7.  Equipment for Monitoring and Evaluation                         57       168       168          (100)   168                            -          (100)   168              -        -
8. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for Village Water
Supply.                                                      1,569     4,615    4,054           (68) 3,004                         (23) 1,047      (91) 4,051         (9)  564      -
TOTAL PROJECT COST US$'000                                  16,566    48,725   46,466            (48)23,507     (33)16,177         ( 9) 4,412      (90)44,096       (10) 4,629      -
Non Incremental Expenditures                                23,164    68,015   65,974                  -                                                                 10,265  57,750
TOTAL PROGRAM COST US$'000                                    -      116,740  112,440            (20)23,507      (14)16,177         ( 4) 4,412      (38)44,096       (13)14,894  (49)57,750
CFAF million                            39,700      -       38,230                8,003           5,500              1,500          15,003            5,064      19,635
1/ Percentages in parentheses



- 32 -
(i)  US$1.1  million  equivalent  (CFAF  370 million)  to a special
account with the CNCA to finance credit for purchase of
implements and animals for the project's animal traction
component.   Reimbursements from farmers plus the 10% interest
charged would be used to build up a revolving fund for animal
traction development within the CNCA.  This component would be
financed by the CCCE.
(ii)  US$1.0 million  (CEAF  358 million)  to the Ministry of Rural
Development for the national seed production program and the
preparation of a possible third project; and
(iii)  the balance, US$42.0 million (CFAF 14,270 million), to SOTOCO
for  financing  all  other  project  components.    For  project
components subcontracted by SOTOCO to other agencies (para
4.03), SOTOCO would pass these funds on in accordance with the
agreed contracts.
5.09      Procurement - Works.   The construction of storage facilities,
office and laboratory buildings, houses and workshops totalling US$2.7
million would be through local competitive bidding for the larger
structures and through contracts with local builders with SOTOCO supplying
materials for simpler structures. International competitive bidding would
not be justified in view of the dispersed nature and individually small
size of each of the constructions (para 3.30).   Tubewell construction
(US$4.6 million; IDA US$3.0 million) would be through international
competitive bidding. Works procured under the IDA Credit (stores and field
offices for the field services totalling to US$1.5 million of which the IDA
Credit at 96% represents US$1.4 million) would be through procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
Goods.  Vehicles, motorcycles and bicycles and farm, field and
office equipment for field services and monitoring and evaluation (US$2.4
million) and pesticides and sprayers (US$ 2.4 million) would be financed
by IDA. Tenders would be grouped as far as possible in appropriate bidding
packages and procured through international competitive bidding (about 75%
of the above total or US$3.6 million) according to World Bank Guidelines.
Contracts below US$100,000 but more than US$50,000 would be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, while
those of less than US$50,000 would be on the basis of quotations from at
least  three reputable  suppliers.    The  remaining  plant  and  equipment
(US$10.6 million) would be financed by other cofinancers and procured
according to their guidelines.  Credit for the animal traction component
(US$1.1 million) would be financed by CCCE.
Services.  Contracts for 46 man-years of technical assistance
valued, in line with experience in Togo, at US$10,100 per man-month on
average and with a total value of -T3$5.0 million (IDA contribution US$2.5
million) would be procured in accordance with IDA and Government
procedures for international recruitment. Fellowships and the study (US$0.9
million, all IDA) would be financed according to agreed overall objectives
updated during project supervision missions.
Other Expenditures. About US$18.5 million of project expendi-
tures representing operating costs and local salaries (IDA financing



- 33 -
US$9.7 million) would be committed in accordance with established
Government procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Contract Review.  All works and goods or packages estimated to
cost over US$100,000 and to be financed by IDA would be subject to IDA's
prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about
75% of such contracts, the balance being subject to random post review by
IDA after contract award.
5.10      Disbursement:   A projected disbursement profile  is given in
Annex Table 3 and involves a six year period. This is based on analysis of
past disbursement profiles for IDA financed rural development projects in
West Africa (94% disbursed by end PY6), the operational momentum of the
ongoing SOTOCO development program and the satisfactory disbursement
achieved under the first project (para 1.15). IDA funding would cover:
Amount of Loan               % of
Expressed in 000's      Expenditures
Category                                   Dollar Equivalent        Financed
1.  Buildings, Houses and Equipment
for SOTOCO HQ.                               125                  12
2. Buildings and Equipment for SOTOCO
Field Services and Monitoring and
Evaluation                                 3,300                  100% of foreign
and 95% of local
currency.
3. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for
Feeder Roads                                 900                  70
4. Buildings, Plant and Equipment for
Village Water Supply                       2,750                  75% of foreign and
68% of local currency.
5. Local Personnel and Operating
Costs for all components except
Ox Cultivation                            8,375                   42
6.  Expatriate Personnel                         2,400                  50
7.  Studies and Fellowships                        850                 100
8.  Pesticides and Sprayers                      2,400                 21
9.  Unallocated                                  2,400
Total                                 23,500
Disbursements under categories 1, 3 and 5 would be pari-passu with the CCCE
and the Government in the ratios of IDA 12%, CCCE 73%, Government 15% for
category 1, 70%, 29% and 1% respectively for category 3 and 42%, 18% and
40% respectively for category 5. Category 4 would be pari-passu with the



- 34 -
FAC in the ratios of IDA 68%, FAC 23% and Government 9%. IDA and CCCE would
finance 50-50% all the cost of expatriate personnel (category 6).   For
categories 2, 7 and 8, IDA would be the only external contributor.
Disbursements  against  civil  works,  vehicles,   equipment,   technical
assistance, fellowships and studies (US$9.4 million) would be supported by
full documentation.   Disbursements  against operating costs  and  local
personnel would be against certificates of expenditure, with full
supporting documentation, showing costs incurred by category, retained for
inspection by IDA during project supervision. SOTOCO's recently improved
financial department already has the capacity to prepare disbursement
requests by component and expenditure category, a capacity that would be
further strengthened under the project, including a more systematic
maintenance of records.   Disbursement requests gainst the National Seed
Production Program would also be prepared by SOTOCO as a service to
facilitate administration of this component.
5.11      Build-up of SOTOCO Capital:  Due to the lags in receiving funds
from external donors and Government, SOTOCO has in the past experienced
cash  flow problems  due  to  insufficient  liquidity.   To redress  this
situation an assurance was obtained during negotiations (para 8.01(h) that
farmer repayments against the quantities of fertilizers financed by
external sources under the project would be retained by SOTOCO and added to
its reserves. Taking into account the phasing out of fertilizer subsidies
that would occur under the project (para 6.10), this arrangement would
result in a total addition to SOTOCO's reserves over the five years of CFAF
790 million  (US$2.3  million).    In  addition  to  increasing  SOTOCO's
liquidity this would enable SOTOCO to build up capacity for eventual
reinvestment in plant out of its own resources. SOTOCO's reserves would be
increased by about CFAF 230 million (US$0.7 million) with subsequent
yearly increments of about CFAF 160 million (US$0.5 million).
5.12      Financial Management, Reporting and Audit:  The project would
continue to support the upgrading of SOTOCO's financial management that
has been taking place during the past two years. The objective would be to
create a strong financial management capable not only of expeditious
handling and recording of SOTOCO's financial transactions, but also of
serving as a management tool for monitoring and recording SOTOCO's
operations in all departments. The Director of Finance and Administration
would be internationally recruited and supported during the first three
years by an internationally recruited analytical accountant with computer
experience.   Financing would also be provided  for a slight  capacity
expansion of SOTOCO's small office computer plus the hire of appropriately
qualified Togolese staff who would be trained, including fellowships as
necessary, for eventual takeover.   In the light of previous experience,
salary premiums to attract and retain suitable homologue staff are likely
to be  necessary  (para 4.09).    The  accounting  system  that  is being
established will include general accounting, analytical accounting and
inventory management plus record keeping of procurement and disbursement
operations and will allow detailed records and financial analysis of all of
SOTOCO's  operations  by  project  activity,  type  of  expenditure  and
geographic area. The office computer would also be used selectively for
such functions as transport management and monitoring and evaluation.



-35 -
5.13      Since appointment of a new financial director in 1980, financial
reporting by SOTOCO has been satisfactory and annual reports and audits are
up to date. Procedures under the second project would be largely similar
to those established during the last two years.   A financial  report,
following guidelines contained in the project file, would be prepared
annually by SOTOCO and submitted to IDA together with an audit report
within four months of the close of the financial year (April 1 to March
31).    The  audit  report  would  be  prepared  by  independent  auditors'
satisfactory to IDA and would include verification that: (i) goods and
services financed by IDA had been procured from Bank member or other
elligible countries; (ii) goods had been received or work performed; (iii)
payments had been made; and (iv) goods and services, in particular those
financed under certificates of expenditure, are elligible for financing.
The audit report would also provide separate assessments of (i) the
adequacy of the past year's OPAT-SOTOCO bareme in covering SOTOCO
expenditures to be financed under the bareme (para 6.12); and, (ii) the
accounts  for  the  projects'  national  seed  production  component.   Key
financial data would also be summarized in SOTOCO's quarterly progress
reports (para 4.12). Assurances to the above effects were obtained during
negotiations (para 8.01(i)).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER RETURNS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
6.01      Adoption Rates and Production.   Projections of participating
farmers and production increases have been based on analysis by ecological
zone of expected adoption rates and yield increases taking into account
agronomic considerations, analysis of farmer incentives, demographic
characteristics, performance under the first project and the stimulus that
would be provided through the measures proposed under the second project.
Full details are provided in the project file, summary data on yields is at
para 3.06 and summary information on expected participants and production
is tabulated below:
Farmers Assisted by the Project
PYO       PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4        PY5
Farms ('000)    42.1        49.8       56.0      59.9       63.8       65.5
% of all Farms  20          23        26         28         30         31
Expected Production (in t.)
Without                            Incremental
Crop                    Project          PY5                t          7
Seed Cotton             22,000          40,400           18,400        84
Maize                    29,465          43,985          14,520        49
Sorghum                 35,348           49,263          13,915        39
Groundnuts               12,609          17,438           4,829        38
Paddy                     6,038           9,940           3,902        65
Cowpeas                   1,018           2,050           1,032       101



- 36 -
An estimated 42,100 farmers are producing cotton with SOTOCO's assistance
in 1982 (PYO). By PY5 the number of farmers participating in the project
is projected to grow to 65,500, one third of the farming families in the
project area.  This represents an increase of 23,400 farmers or 56% as
against the first project's achievement of 22,800 new project partici-
pating cotton growing farmers representing an increment of 118%.   The
relative slowdown in the percentage of new participants reflects the
approach of the expected cotton production plateau in Togo of about 50,000
to 55,000 tons per annum. Cotton yields of farmers already participating
would increase slightly but the main increase in cotton production would
result from the increased area under cotton which, combined with the yield
increases from already participating farmers would increase cotton
production from 22,000 t/annum in PYO to 40,400 t/annum by PY5, an increase
of 18,400 t or 84%. Through increased yields of participating farmers's
food crops due to the cultural practices described in paras 3.03 to 3.06,
aggregate food crop production (excluding tubers) of the 65,500 families
is projected to increase from 84,000 t in PYO to 122,000 t by PY5, an
increase of 38,000 t or 45% due, primarily, to increased yields as a result
of use of improved husbandry, rotations, and the use of fertilizer and
improved seed.  The food crop yield increase assumptions (para 3.06) are
based on experience in Togo and neighbouring countries. These should be
attainable under the proposed project given that SOTOCO's seed production
has expanded considerably during 1981 and 1982 and would be further
expanded under the proposed projet and that appropriate varieties are
already being used successfully by SOTOCO farmers.
6.02      Cotton Prices  and Market Outlook.   World market prices  for
cotton fibre were fairly stable during the 1960s and early 1970s at about
US$2.52/kg (constant 1982 prices for Mexican SMI-16 CIF N. Europe),
fluctuated by about 18% around this level between 1974 and 1977 and fell to
around US$2.07/kg between 1978 and 1981.   The medium and longer term
outlook for cotton fibre is good based on expected demand growth in
developing country markets and expected upward price trends for the petro-
chemical based synthetic textiles.  Demand is expected to grow at about
3.2% per annum through 1990 with world cotton production growing at about
1.6% per annum.  The real price of cotton fibre is projected to grow by
about 2.5% per annum during the 1980s to US$2.20/kg (1982 terms) in 1990,
most of the growth occurring during the 1983-85 period.
6.03      Togolese  cotton  is  of medium  but  variable  quality  and  is
generally exported in quantities which are small compared to the needs of
major textile concerns.  Therefore, OPAT has marketed its cotton through
Compagnie Cotonniere, a marketing agent which sells cotton from several
African countries under a pooled arrangement. Compagnie Cotonniere groups
volumes of cotton with similar milling/spinning qualities and assures
customers volumes consistent with manufacturing needs.   It is normally
able to sell a participating country's cotton at prices within the range
established  in world markets  for  similar grades.   For  this  service,
Compagnie  Cotonniere  receives  a  0.5%  commission.    Concern  has  been
expressed recently, however that prices received by OPAT for Togolese
cotton may be selling systematically at prices below those which might
otherwise be obtainable if marketing management was improved. In order to
estimate the magnitude of the possible shortfall in revenue and to identify



- 37 -
factors influencing the selling price of Togolese cotton, the OPAT Price
Unit (para 1.24) would, with financial support from the Technical
Assistance Project (para 1.24), hire a cotton marketing specialist to
analyze recent developments in Togolese prices and make recommendations by
December 31, 1983 for changes in the marketing system which might improve
prices. Following an initial analysis, the OPAT price unit would update a
review of market prospects for Togolese cotton on an annual basis. This
information would also be transmitted to SOTOCO as supplementary manage-
ment information. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the
initial report and annual reviews would be forwarded to IDA for information
and comment (para 8.01(b)). In the economic analysis of this report, the
indicative economic price for Togolese cotton is taken to be the IBRD
cotton price indicator (para 6.02) discounted by 20%.  This discounting
factor reflects recently observed statistical differences between Togolese
realized selling prices and reported price quotations for Mexican SMl-1/16
cotton.
6.04      Food Crop Prices and Marketing.   The market outlook for food
crops appears good.   World market prices for maize and groundnuts are
expected to increase in real terms by 2% per annum with rice and sorghum
increasing by 3% per annum. For Togo, which produces almost entirely for
local consumption plus some informal exports to neighboring countries, a
more useful indication is provided through assessment of the local and
regional market. In Togo the combined effect of population growth (2.5%),
rising per capita incomes (3%) and urban growth (6%) offers an expanding
local demand and the rapidly expanding market in neighboring countries,
notably Nigeria, could easily absorb surpluses.
6.05      Existing private food crop marketing in Togo is efficient and
flexible, with mark-ups in line with marketing costs, and should be able to
continue its current role as regards the marketing of project generated
off-farm surpluses. Farmers sell their surplus produce on roadsides or in
small village markets, or directly from their fields or granaries
generally choosing to sell the minimum possible at harvest time, storing
the rest for family consumption and sale of surplus as prices rise nearer
the next harvest. A competitive network of traders purchase and transport
these surpluses to deficit areas in Togo or neighboring countries.  The
project's investment in improved rural roads and sale to farmers of bio-
degradable pesticides would support this mechanism without interferring in
its operations.
6.06      Food crop prices used in the economic analysis and farm models
are based on average trends of farm level prices over a number of years
which have tended to follow average domestic inflation with yearly
variations depending on the size of the harvest. As Togolese production is
expected to keep in line with national consumption, these prices are
assumed constant (in 1982 terms) in the economic analysis.   The market
prices used are slightly below the calculated Togolese farmgate equivalent
price of Nigerian border prices adjusted for estimated transport and
marketing costs.  These prices are generally in line with projections of
world market prices. Surplus maize, sorghum and groundnuts are exported by



- 38 -
Togo.    For maize  the  farmgate  price used  (CFAF 55/kg equivalent  to
US$162/t) compares with a 1985 projection for FOB maize of US$206/t (1982
terms). Togo's red grain sorghum valued at a farmgate price of CFAF 60/kg
or US$176/t compares with a FOB commodity projection for 1985 of US$218/t
for red grain sorghum.   Unshelled groundnuts at CFAF 65/kg or US$294/t
farmgate price for shelled groundnuts compares with an estimated FOB price
for shelled groundnuts of US$420/t.   The farmgate price of paddy, CFAF
80/kg equivalent to US$360/t of rice, compares with a projected CIF price
of imported 35% broken rice of US$470/t.   No commodity comparison is
available for cowpeas.
6.07      Farm and Crop Returns.  Net returns per farm are summarised in
the Annex Table 5.  Three farm models are presented representing typical
farms in the north, center and south of the project area. For each model,
returns for a non-cotton growing farmer, a cotton growing farmer under the
first project and a cotton growing farmer at the final development stage
under the proposed second project are compared. At the final development
stage of the second project, net surpluses After family consumption are
more than double those under the first project with a particularly strong
impact in the north, largely due to the influence of improved food crops.
The figures in parentheses show the projected influence of a removal of
subsidies on fertilizers (para 6.08).
6.08      Annex Table 5 also compares returns per hectare and per manday
for different crops. For this purpose, the project area is divided into
two ecological areas, the north (Savanna and Oti-Kara) where sorghum is
grown and the south (Central and Plateau) where maize replaces sorghum.
Returns from yams, cassava and bottomland paddy are high but expansion is
limited by land availability for paddy and marketing problems for the high
weight; low value cassava and perishable yams.  The key comparisons are
therefore cotton, sorghum and groundnuts in the north and cotton, maize and
groundnuts in the south.  The table clearly illustrates the advantage to
the farmer--particularly on a return/ha basis--of adopting the project
package for his sorghum, maize or groundnuts. Improved cotton production
is  also more  profitable  on a per hectare  basis  than  production  of
unimproved sorghum, maize and groundnuts.  Of particular interest is the
comparison  between  improved  production  of  cotton,  sorghum/maize  and
groundnuts.  At the current farmgate price for seed cotton of CFAF 65/kg,
cotton has a similar return per hectare as improved maize and groundnuts in
the south although a lower return per man day. In the north the return per
hectare from cotton is slightly greater than that of improved groundnuts
but 25% lower than that of improved sorghum, and on a per manday basis is
lower than both of these crops.   A largely similar picture emerges when
fertilizer subsidies are removed.
6.09      The influence of an increase in the farmgate price for seed
cotton is also iLlustrated in Annex Table 5.  At a price of CFAF 75/kg
cotton emerges as an attractive crop in comparison with maize and
groundnuts although it is still marginal when compared with sorghum in the
north. Cotton production, however, offers a guaranteed price and market
outlet, and farm labor input at cotton harvesting time, a relatively slack
period in the farming calendar, has a low opportunity cost. Nevertheless,



- 39 -
some increase in real terms of seed cotton prices appears appropriate (para
6.11).  The second conclusion emerging from this analysis and its heavy
current financial costs to Government (para 6.07 and Table 5) concerns the
financial feasibility from the farmers' point of view of removing
fertilizer subsidies. Given the high budgetary costs involved (para 6.10)
an assurance to this effect is provided in the paragraph below.
6.10      Input Prices,  Subsidies  and Cotton Prices.   Fertilizer  and
pesticide prices are fixed annually by Government decree. Fertilizers are
currenty sold to farmers at prices that represent 45 to 50% of cost prices
with Government subsidising the balance.   Farmers pay the total cost of
batteries for ULV sprayers, pesticides used on food crops (very limited
usage to date) and for improved food crop seeds. Pesticides for cotton are
provided free but costs are subsequently recovered in full through the
bareme and therefore represent no net loss for Government in that producer
prices  are  correspondingly  lower.    The  budgetary  implications  of
maintaining current fertilizer subsidy levels are high; a 50% subsidy
level in the 1983 season (PYI) would amount, for SOTOCO's farmers alone, to
CFAF 330 million (US$0.9 million) in constant 1982 terms and would rise to
CFAF 670 million (US$2.0 million) by PY5.   An assurance was therefore
obtained from Government during negotiations (para 8.01(j)) that full cost
coverage prices would continue to be applied to batteries, food crop
pesticides and improved food crop seed and that fertilizer subsidy levels
would be progressively phased out to zero by not later than 1987 (PY5).
6.11      The analysis of para 6.09 and para 6.13 also suggest that a
further financial stimulus should be provided for production of cotton
viz-a-viz food crops and that this is financially supportable out of OPAT
surplus from the cotton sector.   The agricultural prices analysis unit
within OPAT (para 1.24) would be undertaking a comprehensive review of
rural sector prices, farmer incentives and responses and budgetary costs
and revenues annually in time for Government consideration prior to
commencement of each season.   An assurance was obtained during negotia-
tions (para 8.01(b)) that the price unit's findings and recommendations
would be discussed annually with IDA with a view to achieving appropriate
production stimuli and rural incomes for farmers while taking account of
the financial implications for Government.  It was further agreed during
negotiations that the Government would (i) announce at the latest in
February of each year, the price of cotton and farm inputs for the next
growing season (8.01(k)); (ii) eliminate the subsidies on cotton
fertilizers over five years as scheduled in para 6.13; and (iii) increase
the price of cotton from CFAF 65/kg to at least CFAF 75/kg for the 1983/84
cotton growing season (8.01(1). The announcement of input prices (with the
fertilizer subsidy reduced from 50% to 40%) and the cotton price for the
1983/84 season would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Cotton prices
would thereafter be adjusted upwards to precisely compensate for cotton
production cost increases as a result of the progressive removal of
fertilizer subsidies and would also be adjusted to compensate for changes
in world price of cotton, general inflation and the price trend for
competing food crops.
6.12      The Cotton Bareme.  The cotton bareme between OPAT and SOTOCO is
intended to reimburse SOTOCO for costs incurred in supporting cotton
production. SOTOCO purchases seed cotton from farmers and is reimbursed by



- 40 -
OPAT--plus reimbursement of associated cotton processing, marketing and
production related costs--upon delivery to OPAT's warehouses at Lome port.
The bareme currently covers: (i) the purchase cost of seed cotton; (ii)
operating costs for: ginning, storage and baling (when done by SOTOCO
ginneries), transport of seed cotton to the ginneries, transport of fibre
and cotton seed to the port, transport of farm inputs and handling and
field marketing costs; (iii) insurance costs; (iv) financial charges
incurred by SOTOCO for short-term borrowing to finance expenditures
incurred prior to end of season reimbursement of marketing operations and
input purchases; (v) the full cost of cotton pesticides purchased by
SOTOCO; and (vi) SOTOCO overheads associated with the above. In the past,
these costs were not always fully covered under the bareme resulting in
additional funding requirements for SOTOCO from the Treasury and
difficulties for SOTOCO due to delayed payments, a matter that would be
corrected in the future through the analytical accounting system now being
established by SOTOCO (para 5.12).   An assurance was obtained during
negotiations (para 8.01(m)) that the above items would be fully costed and
recovered under the bareme and that the following additional elements
would be added to the bareme in the future: (i) the debt service payments
that must be made by SOTOCO against the loans provided by the CCCE for
construction of the Lama Kara and new Notse ginneries; (ii) staff and
operating costs for maintenance of SOTOCO's truck transport fleet; (iii)
subsidies on fertilizer for cotton.   The subsidy element in fertilizer
would be included in the bareme as a mechanism to ensure timely and
complete provision of funding by Government for fertilizer imports for the
project, a critical past problem that has resulted in late ordering and
delivery.   As  fertilizer subsidies are phased out,  this entry, would
disappear.   An assurance would be obtained during negotiations that the
draft bareme would be forwarded annually to IDA not later than September 30
of each year, three months before commencement of each cotton marketing
season for comment and approval. As previously, SOTOCO would prepare the
first draft of the bareme which would be discussed and provisionally agreed
with OPAT before forwarding to IDA.
6.13      Government Revenues and Cash Flow.  The effect on OPAT surpluses
of the above measures--increasing the producer price (para 6.11);
adjusting the bareme to include full charging of all costs described in
para 6.12 including subsidies, until they are phased out, on fertilizers;
and progressive phasing out of subsidies on fertilizers (para 6.10)--is
shown below along with the farmgate price and subsidy assumptions used:



- 41 -
Estimated Progression of Net OPAT Surpluses (Constant 1982 Prices)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Farmgate Value of Seed Cotton
(CFAF/kg)                        1/ 177    197       218     220      223
Proposed Producer Price (CFAF/kg)-   77        78       80       82      84
Proposed Subsidy on Fertilizers (%)  40        30       20       10        0
Net OPAT Surplus per i/n seed
cotton (CFAF '000) -                  35     57       76      79       83
This would produce annual net OPAT surpluses  (1982 constant terms) on
SOTOCO production of CFAF 1.0 billion (US$2.9 million) in 1983 and of CFAF
3.3 billion (US$9.7 million) by 1987.  The increase in OPAT's margin is
essentially due to the projected increase in world market prices for cotton
fibre. These margins are sensitive to variations in world prices falling,
for instance, from CFAF 35,000/t to CFAF 16,000/t in 1983 if a 10% fall in
the projected world price of cotton lint were to occur. Nevertheless, the
table illustrates that under expected price trends, substantial surpluses
would be made from the sector providing room for further increases in the
producer  price  of  cotton.    The  recommended  producer  prices  should,
therefore, be regarded as representing "minimum" price increases which
would be reviewed during project execution to ensure adequate producer
incentives.   The inclusion under the bareme of subsidies on food crop
fertilizers used by SOTOCO has only a minor impact, CFAF 2,500/t in 1983
and thereafter decreasing to zero by 1987. Varying the producer price for
seed cotton would alter the OPAT margin by CFAF 1,000/t for each one
franc/kg change in the producer price.
6.14      A Government cash flow is at the Annex Table 4.   This shows
Government's estimated net financial position as a result of SOTOCO's
development program over the next 10 years (i.e. inclusive of project and
ongoing recurrent expenditures) and includes the proposed external
financing for project expenditures over PYs 1 to 5.  OPAT surpluses are
treated  as  Government  revenues.    Annual  net  returns  are  positive
throughout and amount to CFAF 4.1 billion (US$12.1 million) by PY5 and
amount to CFAF 15 billion (US$44.2 million) through the first five years of
the project.
1/  The recommended price of CFAF 75/kg is adjusted upwards during the
fertilizer phase-out period to compensate farmers for increased
costs  of  fertilizers.   Prices  in current  terms would need to be
higher  to account  for  inflation.    OPAT  surpluses would  also  be
higher after allowance for inflation.
2/ Before export duties.



- 42 -
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      Benefits:  The project's directly quantifiable benefits would be
through its impact on crop production.  By PY5 incremental production of
cotton would reach 18,400 t representing an 84% increase over current
production levels of participating farmers, and food crop production would
increase by 38,000 t, the bulk of it representing surpluses over on farm
consumption for sale in Togolese markets or adjacent countries. The FOB
value of incremental cotton lint and seed would amount in constant 1982
terms to CFAF 3.9 billion (US$11.5 million) by PY5 which is equivalent to
5% of Togo's total exports or 29% of the FOB value of cocoa and coffee
exports in 1980.  FOB export revenues from cotton lint and seed in 1980
amounted to CFAF 1.2 billion (US$3.5 million).   The farmgate value of
projected PY5 incremental food crop production would amount to CFAF 4.2
billion (US$7 million).
7.02      The project would benefit some 65,500 farming families (425,000
persons) or 31% of the rural population in the project area, 23,400 of
these  families  would  be  new  participants.    These  families  would  be
distributed over about 3/4 of Togo's land area providing pilot examples to
other farmers of the benefits of improved cultural practices.  The cash
incomes of project participants would more than double providing a
significant stimulus to rural growth.
7.03      In addition to these quantifiable benefits the project would
help strengthen the development institutions involved, in particular, the
extension network and the management of the main implementing agency,
SOTOCO.  This, supplemented by the study on the extension system under
the TA II (para 4.10), could allow future reorganization of Togo's extension
system and the creation of a financially autonomous cotton development
agency. Project measures related to applied research, seed multiplication,
village water supply and feeder road development would have long range
benefits beyond the immediate production impact of the project's field
development activities.
7.04      Economic Analysis:   The project's economic rate of return has
been calculated in constant 1982 terms over a twenty year period on the
incremental costs and benefits resulting from the project.  Without the
project measures, production levels are assumed to remain at PYO (1982)
levels and project benefits have therefore been taken to represent the
value of incremental production of cotton, maize, sorghum, groundnuts,
paddy and cowpeas over PYO levels. These are projected in the Annex Table
7 which also gives the price assumptions used (paras 6.02, 6.03 and 6.06).
From PY6, production levels are assumed to remain constant. The economic
farmgate price of seed cotton is calculated at the Annex Table 6 and
includes reductions for ginning and transportation costs.  Project costs
(part A of Annex Table 7) exclude taxes but include physical contingencies
(para 5.02).  The full project costs of all project components have been
taken including the project's support to the national seed multiplication
program (2% of project costs).   Farm input levels have been adjusted to
represent annual input usage over PYO usage rather than the annual



- 43 -
increments over preceeding years used in the calculation of incremental
inputs for project costs.   A line to cover transport costs for inputs
(excluded from project costs at Table 1 as financed under the bareme) has
also been added. Incremental farm labor has been valued at CFAF 300/man
day, representative of the estimated average opportunity cost of farm
labor in Togo. Staff salaries and paid labor have been costed at actual
costs (net-of-tax).   An exchange rate of CFAF 340: US$1 has been used
throughout.
7.05      Under the above assumptions (details and computations in project
file) the project's economic rate of return is estimated at 21.3%.   A
summary of the principle economic tests is given in Table 3:
TABLE 3: Summary of Economic Analysis
Switching Value @ 12%
% Increase   % Decrease
ERR       Costs        Benefits
Project                                      21.3       12.1          10.8
Project, 20% decreased participation         15.8        5.0           5.2
Project, benefits lagged I year              11.2        1.5           1.3
Variation in Cotton Prices 10% decrease   15.8           4.9           4.7
Variation in Shadow wage rate
33% increase                              12.7       0.8            0.8
7.06      Sensitivity:   The project's economic viability is sensitive to
variations in costs and benefits, due mainly to the large values of annual
farm inputs and farm labor after the disbursement period. A simultaneous
10% rise in costs and 10% fall in benefits give an ERR of 4.9.  Never-
theless, the overall rate of return provides an acceptable buffer against
unforseen circumstances, as switching values (at a 12% opportunity cost of
capital) are 12.1% for costs and 10.8% for benefits. A reduction in cotton
prices of 10% would yield an ERR of 15.8%.   Shortfalls in participation
rates have been tested for by varying production, farm input levels and
farm labor in the same proportions but leaving fixed investments constant.
A 20% shortfall in participation would result in a 15.8% rate of return.
Finally, if the shadow prices for farm labor were to increase to CFAF
400/day compared with CFAF 300/day in the  base case, the ERR would be
12.7%.
7.07      Risks:    There  are  no  major  technological  risks  under  the
proposed project.  The proposed farm development measures have been well
tested in Togo and other ecologically similar W. African countries and
projected yield increments are averages allowing for variations due to
adverse years.   Additionally, SOTOCO has proven itself to be a capable



- 44 -
development agency and current weaknesses have been specifically catered
for in project design. SOTOCO's future performance will depend critically
upon the calibre of project management and senior Togolese staff and
appropriate staff strengthening and assurances concerning these matters
are contained at paras 4.04 to 4.09.
7.08      The calibre of technical assistance staff is also crucial to the
success of the project. Appointment of key technical assistance staff is a
condition of Credit effectiveness and the qualifications and experience of
all technical assistance staff would be carefully assessed by IDA prior to
acceptance of appointment (para 4.06). Their subsequent performance would
also be carefully monitored during project supervision.
7.09      Attainment  of  cotton  production  objectives  would  require
maintenance of an attractive farmgate price for seed cotton.  Recommen-
dations and an assurance relative to this are contained at para 6.11.
Projected real price increases for cotton fibre and the lack of appreciable
price oscillations in the international cotton market should allow for
progressive increases in seed cotton prices without negative consequences
on Government surplus from the cotton sector (para 6.13).
7.10      The success of the project would also depend upon full and timely
provision of funding from the Treasury (assurance at para 5.06). This risk
would be lessened by inclusion, until subsidies are phased out, of cotton
fertilizer subsidies under the bareme (assurance at para 6.12) thereby
ensuring timely provision of funds required for seasonal inputs and
reducing the contribution required from the Treasury.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      At negotiations, agreement was reached with Government on the
following points:
(a)  direct procurement by SOTOCO of farm inputs as from the start of
the 1983/84 growing season (para 3.16);
(b)  preparation and forwarding to IDA for review and comment of
annual and/or periodic reports governing village water supply
(para 3.23), monitoring and evaluation (para 3.32), comparative
analysis of cotton export revenues (para 6.03) and review of the
factors to be considered in seed-cotton price setting (para
6.11);
(c)  prior approval by IDA of contracts relative to services provided
by IRAT and IRCT for applied research, DHE for village water
supply, the Ministry of Rural Works' feeder roads unit, PROPTA
for animal traction and CNCA for medium term credit (para 4.03);
(d)  terms of reference and selection procedures of all technical
assistance and consultancy staff would be satisfactory to IDA,
and IDA approval of their qualifications and experience would be



- 45 -
obtained prior to appointment (para 4.06); technical assistance
arrangements will be reviewed annually in order to identify
needs as they occur and to permit maximum flexibility in the
transfer of responsabilities to Togolese staff (para 4.08);
(e) the posts of SOTOCO General Director and Assistant General
Director and Marketing Director would be filled at all times by
persons  with  qualifications,   experience  and  capabilities
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.09);
(f) annual and quarterly reports, following formats satisfactory to
IDA would be forwarded to IDA within respectively 3 months and
two months of close of the reporting period (para 4.12);
(g) Government contributions to the costs of the project and of
recurrent costs relative to SOTOCO's ongoing development program
would be made in full and in a timely manner (para 5.06);
(h) farmer reimbursements against the quantities of farm inputs
funded by the cofinancers would be retained by SOTOCO and added
to its reserves (para 5.11);
(i) an audited financial report following a format satisfactory to
IDA and with special sections as described in para 5.13 would be
for-warded to IDA within four months of the close of the
financial year;
(j) farmers would pay the full costs of batteries, pesticides used
on food crops and improved food crop seeds, and fertilizer
subsidies would be phased out progressively to zero by not later
than 1987 (para 6.10);
(k) prices for seed cotton and farm inputs will be announced not
later than February each year for the next cotton season;
(1) the price to be paid farmers for seed cotton would be adjusted
annually to take account of movements in the international price
of cotton, the reduction of fertilizer subsidies, general inflation
and the price trend of competing food crops (para 6.11); and
(m) the OPAT-SOTOCO cotton bareme would be modified to include the
full costs of items currently contained in the bareme and
additionally: (i) debt service payments against the Lama Kara
and Notse ginneries; (ii) staff and operating costs for
maintenance of SOTOCO's truck transport fleet; (iii) subsidies
on fertilizer for cotton; and the draft bareme would be
forwarded annually to IDA for comment and approval (para 6.12).
8.02      Credit effectiveness would be conditionned by:
(i) nomination of a General Director with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.02);



- 46 -
(ii) signature of a satisfactory contract or contracts for the six
technical assistance staff positions described in para 4.06; and
(iii) announcement of input prices (with the fertilizer subsidy
reduced from 50 to 40 percent) and the seed cotton price (at a
minimum of CFAF 75/kg) for the 1983/84 growing season.
8.03      Under these conditions, the proposed project would be suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$23.5 million.



-      -                        Annex
Table 1
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Project Component bi Time
(CFAF '000)
Base Costs                                    Total
PYl        PY2           "y3         PY4          PY5          CFAF      (US$ '000)
A. SOTOCO HEADQUARTERS                     533P644.2   341,201.6   311,543.1   309,643.3   181,746.8  1,677,778.9    4,934,6
P. SEED PRODUCTION
NATIONAL SEED PRODUCTION PROGRAM        105,258.5    71,971.5    33,378.9    32,720.6    33,378.9    276,708.5          813.8
SEED PRODUCTION COMPONENT               108,301.2    70,970.7    87,354.3    68,702.9    55,364.1    390,693.2    1,149.1
Sub-Total SEED PRODUCTION                  213,559.7   142,942.3   120,733.3   101,423.5    88i743.0    667P401.7    1,962.9
C. APPLIED RESEARCH                        133,785.5    86,382.2    85,605.5   104P034.6    84,806.7    494,614.6    1,454.7
0. SOTOCO FIELD SERVICES  /a               452,869.3   346,092.7   365,097.9   476,339.7   268,480.6  1908,880.0    5,614.4
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION       112,348.6    80,661.2    81391.2    88,084.2    87,275.1    449,760.2    1,322.8
F. OXEN CULTIVATION                        120,937.2   1475897.9   169,563.6   181,880.0   136f184.5    756,463.1    2,224.9
G. COTTON GINNING AND STORAGE                6,661.1            -   122,872.5            -            -    129,533.6       381.0
H. TRANSPORTATION                          180,792.7    75,305.2   247,127.2   311,184.9   252,123.1  1,066Y533.1    3,136.9
I. VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY                    136,786,5   557,442.1   701,515,5    27,166.1    27Y166.1  1,450,076,3    4,264.9
J. FEEDER ROADS                            684,453.3   371,707.4   445,940.3   470,796.3   409,188l2  2,382,085.5    7,006.1
K. INPUTS SUPPLY                           509,319.3   251,231.1   228,312.2   207,148.7   147,294.6  1,343,305.9    3,,50.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                       3,085,157.3 2,400,863.5 2,879,702.2 2,277,701.2 1,683,008.7 12,326,432.9   36,254,2
Phssical Contingencies                    209,098,5   149,147.1   187,690.4   147,463.1   110,411,2    803,810.3    2,364.1
Price Contingencies                       293,381.3   471,765.6   868,023.2   918,559.7   884,643.3  3,4360373.1   10,107.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                        3,587,637,0 3,021,776,2 3,935,415.9 3,343,724,0 2,678,063,1 16,566,616.2   48,725.3
Tax>es                                    114,893.3   186,504,6   240,470.3   109,287.7   116,705.0    767,860.8    2P258.4
Foreign Exchanse                        2,733,104.1 2,000,762.5 2,579,167.5 2,354Y551.1 1,688,8302. 11,356f415+3   33f401.2
la TRAININC,EXTENSION AND COOPERATIVES DEVELOP.



-48 -                                      Annex
Table 2
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Proposed Financing by Pro1ect Component and Expenditure Category/l
Component and Expenditure Category                      Total                    IDA            CCCE         FAC        Lenders        Trermury
(CPAY Millions) (US$ Millions)    ---------------------- (CPAY Millions) -----------------
SOTOCO HQ
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                   399             1.17        (13)  45        (87) 295         -            340             59
Expatriate Personnel                           667             1.96        (50) 334       (23) 153    (27) 180          667
Local Personnel                                247             0.73       (J8) 138         (32)  65         -           203              44
Fellowship                                     226             0.67       (104) 226             -           -           226             -
Other Operating Costs                          555             1.63       (i) 309          (32) 146         -           455             100
Total                                    2,094            5.67            1,052            659           180      1,891            203
Follow-Up Project Study                           63             0.18       (100)  63             -           -             63            -
National Seed Production
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                    65             0.19                       (100)  63         -             63              2
Expatriate Personnel                            73             0.22        (50)  36        (23)  17    (27)  20           73
Local Personnel                                116             0.34        (68)  65        (32)  30         -             95             21
Other Operating Costs                          100             0.29        (68)  56        (32)  26         -            82              18
Total                                       354            1.04              157             136           20        313              41
SOTOCO Seed Production
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                   142             0.42           -                -       (100) 128        128              14
Expatriate Personnel                            47             0.14        (50)  23        (23)  11    (27)  13           47
Local Personnel                                188             0.55        (68) 105        (32)  49         -           154              34
Other Operating Costs                          142             0.42        (68)  79        (32)  37         -           116              26
Total                                       519            1.53              207              97          141        445              74
Applied Research
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                   112             0.33           -                -       (100) 100        100              12
Expatriate Personnel                            58             0.17        (50)  29        (23)  13    (27)  16          58             -
Local Personnel                                306             0.90        (68) 171        (32)  80         -           251              55
Other Operating Costs                          184             0.54        (68) 103       (32)  48          -           151              33
Total                                       660            1.94              303             141          116        560             100
Field Services
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                 1,290             3.80       (100)1236            -            -         1,236              54
Expatriate Personnel                           307             0.90        (50) 153        (23)  71    (27)  83         307             -
Local Personnel                                480             1.41        (68) 268        (32) 126         -           394              86
Other Operating Costs                          487             1.43        (68) 271        (32) 128         -           399              88
Total                                     2,564             7.54           1,928             325           83      2,336            228
Monitoring and Evaluation
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                    57             0.17       (100)  57            -            -            57             -
Expatriate Personnel                           196             0.58        (50)  98        (23)  45    (27)  53         196
Local Personnel                                232             0.68        (68) 129        (32)  61         -           190              42
Other Operating Costs                          104             0.30        (68)  58        (32)  27         -            85              19
Total                                       589            1.73              342             133          53         528              61
Oxen Cultivation
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                   129             0.38            _               -       (100) 117        117              12
Expatriate Personnel                            61             0.18        (50)  30        (23)  14    (27)  17          61             -
Local Personnel                                266             0.78                            -       (100) 151        151             115
Credit for Animals and Implements              434             1.28            -          (100) 369         -           369              65
Other Operating Costs                          148             0.43            -               -       (100) 126        126              22
Total                                     1,038             3.05              30             383          411        824             214
Ginning and Storage
Buildings, Plant and Equipment                 178             0.52            _          (100) 178         -           178              11
Transportation 
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                 1,480             4.35            -         (100)1468          -         1,468              12
Water Supply
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                 1,569             4.61        (75)1069            -        (25) 356      1,425             144
Expatriate Personnel                           121             0.35        (50)  60        (23)  28    (27)  33         121             -
Local Personnel                                 66             0.19        (68)  37        (32)  17         -            54              12
Other Operating Costs                          154             0.45            -               -       (100)  63          63             91
Total                                     1,910            5.62            1,166              45          452      1,663             247
Feeder Roads
Buildings, Plant & Equipment                   525             1.54        (70) 366        (30  157         -           523               2
Expatriate Personnel                           163             0.48        (50)  82        (23)  37    (27)  44         163             -
Local Personnel                                292             0.86        (70) 174        (30)  74         -           248              44
Other Operating Costs                        2,248             6.61        (68)1299        (32) 612         -         1.911             337
Total                                     3,228            9.49             1921             880           44      2,845             383
Farm Inputs
Sprayers                                       108             0.32       (100) 108           -             _           108             -
Fertilizer                                   1,055             3.10            -          (100)1,055        -         1,055
Peatticida                                     726             2.14      (100) 726             -            _          ;26              -
Total                                     1,889              5.56            834             1,055        -        1,889              -
Total                                    16.566             48.72          8,003             5,500      1,500    15.003            1,574
1/ Percentages in parentheses



- 49 -                  Annex
Table 3
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Estimated Scheduled of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Fiscal Year and Quarter                  Disbursements                        %
Quarterly            Cumulative            Total
FY83        4                        700                  700                  3
FY84        1                        900                1,600                  7
2                       950                2,550                 11
3                     1,000                3,550                 15
4                     1,000                4,550                 20
FY85        1                      1,000                5,550                 24
2                     1,000                6,550                 28
3                     1,100                7,650                 33
4                     1,200                8,850                 38
FY86        1                      1,200               10,050                 43
2                     1,150               11,200                 47
3                     1,150               12,350                 52
4                     1,150               13,500                 57
FY87        1                      1,150               14,650                 62
2                     1,150               15,800                 67
3                     1,150               16,950                 72
4                     1,150               18,100                 77
FY88        1                      1,150               19,250                 82
2                     1,000               20,250                 86
3                       950               21,200                 90
4                       900               22,100                 94
FY89        1                        900               23,000                 98
2                       500               23,500                100



*Annex
Table 4
T O G O
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW
(CFAF millions, Current Terms)
FYi     FY2      FY3     FY4      FY5      FY6     FY7      FY8      FY9     FY10
1.  Source of Fundst
External financing   /2                   3,297   2,693   3,509   3,072   2,432        -        -       -        -         -
Cotton market surplus -                   2,792   3,993   5,438   5,952   6,571   6,966   7,382   7,827   8,295    8,796
Farmers' contribution on farm inputs        623     958   1,391   1,915   2,516   2,669   2,826   2,996   3,176    3,367
Sub-total                             6,712   7,644  10,338  10,939  11,519   9,635  10,208  10,823  11,471   12,163
2. Application of Funds
Program costs /3, /4                      5,062   5,376   6,986   7,287   7,407   6,466   6,814   7,201   7,587    8,013
3. Cash Flow Before Debt
Servicing /5
Net annual                                1,650   2,268   3,352   3,652   4,112   3,169   3,394   3,622   3.884    4.150
Cumulative                               1,650   3,918   7,270  10,922  15,034  18,203  21,597  25,219  29,103   33,253
1/ Excluding net margin on credit to farmers
2/  Including export duties and before subsidies on farm inputs (see note 4)
3/ Net of taxes
4/ Including costs of farm inputs
5/ Debt servicing excluded pending clarification of cofinancers' financing terms



- 51 -                                     Annex
Table 5
T O G O
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Farm Models
PART A: COMPARATIVE FARM RETURNS
Net Value Of                                 Net Surplus After
Production:                                Family Consumption:
Per Farm                  Per M. Day              Per Farm             Per M. Day
North Togo:                                 (CFAF '000)                  (CFAF)               (CFAF '000)             (CFAF)
W/out Project-Non cotton grower           184  (184)                 380  (380)               34   (34)            70   (70)
W/out Project-Cotton grower               193  (162)                 390  (330)               35   (12)            70   (24)
With Project                              278  (256)                 470  (430)              119   (97)           200  (160)
Central Togo:
W/out Project-Non cotton grower           111  (111)                 460  (460)               37   (37)           150  (150)
W/out Project-Cotton grower               123  (110)                 450  (400)               48   (35)           180  (130)
With Project                              175  (124)                 560  (400)               99   (87)           320  (280)
Southern (Bimodal) Areas
W/out Project-Non cotton grower           118  (118)                 400  (400)               23   (23)            80   (80)
W/out Project-Cotton grower               136  (111)                 410  (330)               43   (18)           130   (50)
With Project                              327  (302)                 800  (740)              100   (75)           240  (180)
1/  Figures in parentheses are returns when fertilizers are not subsidized.  Cotton price assumed at
CFAF 65/kg seed cotton throughout.
PART B: COMPARATIVE RETURNS BY CROP
Savanna/Oti-Kara                                     Central/Plateau
With                       Without                    With                        Without
Fertilizer                 Fertilizer                 Fertilizer                  Fertilizer
Subsidies                  Subsidies                  Subsidies                   Subsidies
Per Ha        Per          Per Ha        Per          Per Ha         Per          Per Ha        Per
In         M.D.            In          M.D.           In          M.D.            In          M.D.
CFAF '000    In CFAF       CFAF '000    In CFAF       CFAF '000    In CFAF        CFAF '000    In CFAF
Cotton Improved 2/              49          390             40          320            60          430             49          350
Sorghum Improved                65          530             58          480
Maize Improved                                                                         57          600             48          510
Groundnuts Improved             47          590             43          530            60          670             56          620
Paddy Improved                  97         1020             88          920            97         1020             88          920
Sorghum Traditional            - - - - - - - - 38  470 - - - - - - - - -
Maize Traditional                                                                   - - - - - - - - - 37  520  - - - - - - - -
Groundnuts Traditional          - - - - - - -  26  430 - - - - - - - - -            - - - - - - - - - 35  510  - - - - - - - -
Yams Traditional                - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 132  530  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cassava Traditional             - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 180 (950) - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Cotton at Alternative Prices:
70 CFAF/kg                                    -             44          350                         -              54          390
75    "                                       -             49          390                         -              60          430
80    "                                        -            53          420                         -              65          470
85    "                                       -             58          460                         -              71          510
2/ At CFAF 65/kg seed cotton



T 0  G 0                                                                Annex I
Table 6
SECOhD RURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Econoic Value of Cotton
(Constant 1982 terms)
FYI                     PY2                    FY3                  PY4                    PY5
Ref. prLce (Mex,SM 1-1/16)CIF N,Europe US$/MT   I/                       1,970                    2,087                  2,143                2,177                  2,196
Ref. price (Mex.SM 1-1/16)CIF N.Europe CFAP/MT  2/                     669,800                  709,580                728,620              740,180                746,640
Quality adjuotmont                                 3/                  133,960                  141,916                145,724              148,036                149,328
Value Togolese Lint CIF N.Europe CFAF/MT                               535,840                  567,664                582,896              592,144                597,312
Adjoatment from CIF N.Europe to FOB Lone           4/                   46,418                   46,922                 47,279               47,313                 47,350
Value Togolese Cotton FOP Lone
- tint (CFAFP/MT)           5/                                    489,422                 520,742                535,617              544,831                549,962
- seeds (CFAF/MT)           6/                                     28,592                   26,154                28,476                28,642                28,821
Port Charges   7/
- lint (CFAbF/T)                                                    2,410                    2,430                  2,430                2,430                  2,430
- seeds (CFAF/MT)                                                   1,090                    1,090                 1,090                 1,090                 1,090
Transport & Hand linR Oio.ery-Lone 8/
- lint (CFAF/MT)                                                    8,527                    8,263                 8,349                 8,256                 8,118
- seeds (CFAF/MT)                                                   7,958                    7,807                 7,881                 7,809                 7,694
Insurance (CFAF/MT)      9/
- lint                                                              3,120                    3,120                 3,120                 3,120                 3,120
- seedo                                                               103                      103                   103                   103                   103
Value em-factory (CPAP/MTI
- lint                                                            475,345                  506,929               521,718               531,025               536,294
- seeds                                                            19,441                   17,154                19,402                19,640                19,934
Ginning coats (CFAF/MT)       10/
- lint                                                             15,129                   13,044                11,286                 9,750                 9,463
- seeds
Pre-factory valo.
- list                                                            460,216                  493,885               510,432               521,275               526,831
- seeds
Yield
- lint                                                                 40                       40                    40                    40                    40
- seeds                                                                55                       55                    55                    55                     55
Equivalent value seedcotton
- lint (CFA/400 kg)                                               184,086                  197,554               204,173               208,510               210,732
- oeeda (CFA/550 kg)                                               10,693                    8,435                10,671                10,802                10,964
- seedcotton (CFA/IT)                                             194,779                  206,989               214,844               219,312               221,696
Primary marketing costs per ton seedcottos
- transport farr-ginnery                 11/                       10,745                    9,030                 8,645                 8,353                  7,542
- labour                                 12/                          226                      226                    226                  226                    226
- storage materials                      13/                        1,449                    1,449                 1,449                 1,449                  1,449
Slb-total marketing                                              12,420                   10,705                10,320                10,028                  9,217
Econonic Farigate price per ton seedcotton
(excluding depreciation on transport and ginning)                    182,359                  196,284                204,524              209,284                212,479
NOTES
1/ World Bank projections June 1982: adjusted for 1982 constant.
2/  Exchange rats 340 CFAF/US$
3/ -207, for grade and staple
4/ 5/ See Project File"Estimted Value of Togolese Cotton Lint"
6/ Sea Project File "estisated Value of Togolese Cottonseed"
7/  Includes OPAT's estimted overheads for cotton-related transit coats;
data fron appraisal report of lt phase of this project (1977), adjusted
to 1982 constant prices (factor: 1.558)
8/ Detailed calculation in working file: "Cotton Transpartation"
9/  Dats fro  SOTOnC0
10/ Ginning cost is entirely charged on cotton lint and unit ginning coat is
equal to total operating coats of ginning divided by total production of lint
11/ Detailed calculation in working fill
12/ Local salaries for primary marketing of seadeotton (after 80TOCO data)
13/ Small   terial for storage of seedrotton (after SOTCO data)



Annex
Table 7
TO OG 
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Costs and Benefits
(CFAF millions, Constant 1982 Terms)
PYl           PY2            PY3            PY4            PY5            PY6           PY7            PY8            PY9            PYIO-20
A. COSTS
Base Costas 1/
SOTOCO Headquarters                                        488.7          296.2         311.5          309.6          181.7          202.5          202.5          202.5          202.5         202.5
Seed Production (SOTOCO)                                   108.3           71.0          87.4           68.7           55.4           83.7           83.7           83.7           83.7          83.7
Applied Research                                           133.8           86.4           85.6         104.0           84.8           92.2           92.2           92.2           92.2           92.2
Field Services                                             452.9         346.1          365.1          476.4          268.4          251.2          251.2          251.2          251.2         251.2
Monitoring and Evaluation                                  112.4           80.7           81.4          88.1           87.3           68.9           68.9           68.9           61.5           61.5
Oxen Cultivation                                           120.9          147.9         169.6          181.8          136.2           93.3           93.3           93.3           93.3           93,3
Village Water Supply                                       136.8          557.4         701.5           27.2           27.2           47.7           47.7          47.7            47.7          47.7
Feeder Roads                                               684.5          371.7         445.9          470.8          409.2          208.8          208.8          208.8          208.8         208.8
Farm Inputs                                                509.3          760.5         988.8         1195.9         1343.2         1343.2         1343.2        1343.2         1343.2         1343.2
Transport of Inputs                                         13.4           24.6          33.8           41.3           44.6           44.6           44.6           44.6          44.6           44.6
Ginning Capital Costs                                       10.9           14.8         128.2            0.0           , 0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Transportation Capital Costs                               180.8           73.3          247.1         311.2          252.1          142.9            0.0          275.6          296.0          186.2   2/
National Seed Mult. Program                                105.3           71.9          33.4           33.7           33.4           44.5           44.5           44.5           44.5          44.5
Total Base Costs:                                        3058.0         2902.5         3679.3         3308.7         2923.5         2623.5         2480.6        2706.2         2769.2         2659.4
Plus Physical Contingencies                                206.0          197.8          264.1         246.2          230.0          199.8          188.3          206.5          211.5          206.9
Less Taxes                                                 107.7          108.7         241.6          109.3          116.7           95.9           90.4           99.0          101.5           99.2
Sub-Total                                                 3156.3        2991.6         3701.8         3445.6         3036.8         2727.4         2578.5        2813.7         2879.2         2767.1
Incremental Farm Labor  3/                                1194.6        1358.4         1473.6         1576.8         1611.9         1611.9         1611.9        1611.9         1611.9         1611.9
TOTAL ECONOMIC COSTS                                     4350.9         4350.0         5175.4         5022.4         4648.7         4339.3        4190.4         4425.6         4491.1         4379.0
B.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Cotton: Incr. Production ('000 t)                           5.60          10.21         13.50          16.96          18.37          18.37          18.37          18.37          18.37          18.37
Econ. Farmgate price                             182.36        196.28         204.52         209.28         212.48         212.48         212.48        212.48          212.48        212.48
Benefits                                       1020.8         2004.0         2761.0         3549.4         3903.3         3903.3        3903.3         3903.3         3903.3         3903.3
Maize:  Incr. Production ('000 t)                           0.87           3.52           7.19         11.25          14.52          14.52          14.52          14.52          14.52          14.52
: Benefits (55 CFAF/kg)                         .  47.9          193.6          395.5          618.8          798.6          798.6          798.6         798.6          798.6          798.6
Sorghum: Incr. Production ('000 t)                          2.53           5.42          9.08          11.85          13.92         13.92           13.92          13.92          13.92          13.92
: Benefits (60 CFAF/kg)                          151.8          325.2          544.8          711.0          835.2          835.2         835.2          835.2          835.2          835.2
Groundnuts: Incr. Production ('000 t)                       0.15           1.28           2.31          3.86           4.83           4.83           4.83           4.83           4.83           4.83
: Benefits (65 CFAF/kg)                         9.8           83.2          150.2          250.9         314.0          314.0          314.0          314.0          314.0          314.0
Paddy: Incr. Production ('000 t)                            0.28           0.99           2.10          3.07           3.90           3.90           3.90           3.90           3.90           3.90
Benefits (80 CFAF/kg)                              22.4           79.2         168.0          245.6          312.0          312.0          312.0         312.0          312.0          312.0
Cowpeas: Incr. Production ('000 t)                          0.07           0.32          0.64           0.93           1.03           1.03           1.03           1.03           1.03           1.03
Benefits (CFAF 95/kg)                             6.7          30.4           60.8           88.4           97.9           97.9           97.9          97.9            97.9           97.9
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFITS                                  1259.4        2715.6         4080.3         5464.1         6761.0         6261.0        6261.0         6261.0         6261.0         6261.0
NET ECONOMIC BENEFITS (LOSSES)                          (3091.6)      (1634.4)       (1095.1)         441.7         1612.3         1921.7         2070.6        1835.4         1769.9         1882.0
1/  From project cost tables and projections from PY6.  Operating costs of cotton ginning and transportation in calculations of economic farm-gate price of cotton (Table 6).
Farm inputs represent annual usage over without-project usage.
2/  Average of years 10-20.
3/  At CFAF 300/M.D.



- 54 -
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Contents of Project File
1.    Detailed Project and Program Cost Tables
2.    Crop Yields, Areas, Production and Input Requirements
3.    Farm Models and Budgets
4.    Applied Research
5.    Support to National Seed Multiplication Program
6.    Feeder Roads
7.    Rural Water Supply
8.    Animal Traction
9.    Transport
10.    Ginning
11.    Construction
12.    Monitoring and Evaluation
13.    Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff
14.    Credit Arrangements
15.    Financial Analysis
16.    Financial Reporting Requirements
17.    Economic Analysis



TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SOTOCO Organigram
Administrative Council      l
|   General     t                                Monitoring and
|   Director    l                        l       Evaluation Unit
Agricultural Production         Finance and Administration                    Industrial                       Marketing
Department                        Department            .               Department                       Department
Services:                      Services:                            Services:                           Services:                        Engineering Division
Training and                   -General Accounting                  - Factories Management              -Cotton Marketing                -Roads
Extension:                     -Analytical Accounting,              - Transport Management                                               -Tubewells
-Extension                       Management Information             - Workshop and Garage                                                -Buildings
-Training                        and Internal Audit
- Farmer Groups                -Inventory Management
-Credit                        -Procurement and Payments
-Animal Traction               -Personnel Management
Research and
Seed Production:
-Research
-Seed Production
SOTOCO Field Services
Savanna    Kara        Central     Plateau                                                                                 rt
Region      Region     Region      Region
World Bank-23764



- 56 -
Chart I
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SOTOCO'S Regional Structure
Regional
Director
Assistant
Director
Supervisor              Trainer                                          Supervisor             Supervisor
Animal              and Assistant                                     Farmer Groups         Monitoring and
Traction               Trainer                                          and Credit              Evaluation
rSecto'r         Sector          Sector      h
Chief    |     Chief    |     Chief         _
I ntendant__
(Inputs, Inventory         Sub-Sector Chiefs   _         _ ._
Management, Cotton          Su-etrCif
Marketing)                    |_
Extension Agents          -    Field Enumerators
World Bank-23765



IBRD 16296
rI                          >>-_                 U P P E R  V O L T A                           MALR  -AN A                "PAARCH 19B?
L ( rKoeg   .                    os7 S-                                   - -GA  )f           N G E 
UPPER N        x
,$ V   apaon                                   N  0rA7-  ~     k           VOLTA
Roirrooko pOo                Mourdour,(    510$N^AU  ' uGU NEA  4,      R-SEh N
[   T 91   OB        /                   /        (        5    i-) / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I GE R A
t   Boumbt          NobdndlLore                        SIERRA CE-E            dG'17   $rQi&
A   V  A   N   N   A                               tIE-R A                 Oce
wGlongocna                                                               so EOcUNso
j( ,,.   Io      n                                 T, "os    AOe. o; ,      ,mO
.           <                *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ovr iriePvEne o/ECC roeSderls o
lou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oe                                                                      O55P,IO,Of !     ac' ed
G    H   A    N   A                        (acam9      ^   
;  /                  K  A(~~~R   A        j
L'ma,                                 r-eec,refrrrc
Ba                                 e isscor       ,    r
C- H   ~             C E   N  TF9 R A N   AC
\    ','   sr/    Soko                     hob
/           KvXb                    K  AJSO R  AU 
.     \v /             sstOu  boma-Kar  0
~~e'~L..~~srrhi,,rsvo  ~~~ Raoo<s..........
T O G O                                                     |
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               A4                     ----4
IN COTTON AREAS                                  f
_    Sotoco heodqoorters                                                                              I   oK
-8   *   Enisue9 glurierres                                   Tch o,obovt      \    . ,o E ovogr-
New ginnery                                             .       _        _      v f,
o   E.,stR,g workshops -k                                                  5                             Ip
News workshops                                                                   >  
IRATr-se-rchn PrCrofs                                  p     L    A      T      Ey   A      U
IRCT rese..c. h Stotiofl.                                 Koanou :1                                 l
s  E. sting seed m  tip corron sroiot,-
'   Proposed seed  rultipl-ct  osions        j                               . Atakpome          
FM]  E. stig Ce-r   Regror Seed Foer|                                               r
-   Proposed Notse Seed FPrm                        pore Rhvo   'Ailorr    * .           oep
7   Proposed No.tovol Seed Cetere
Norsd Rural )eseloporeor Pro ocr             J/                                     NOUSE
N.___        R-               P. c
_   ocolopicol reR,ovs                          <                            RURAL D3VELCPME:T
Norrh Soosees.                                         i1    <5                           91 [ToIr
Ot Koro                                   Jo.                                    'ROE        ;                     7-_
Noryh Ce-trol                            (
Soth C-eto/
_ _ Plateoun ,                                                                >      $5
P ae de  Md                                                                                     G
Molor roads                                                (Kut9   pdXgb
Ev s s woos                                              \ M                            X,a
i- -    vers - -                                                                                       \ 
      Reg.onor heRoasorrers
- - Rep onool odmLnirrrorrve boundor es\or                                                              )~
R- Inrernotoes do-    b dories t
|            h  5  pffl        ~       ~~~~ Anehoe
0  0     40       A0        80       t                                         LOME
R CtAFTFRS



