WA-552                                  Document of
The World Bank
FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3398-TO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$23.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN COTTON AREAS
November 4, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               =         CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                     =         CFAF 340
CFAF 1,000,000              =         US$2,940
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                 =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)   =          0.39 square miles
1 hectare                   =         2.47 acres
1 kilogram                  =         2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (t)            =         2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CNCA         Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
DRDR         Direction Regionale pour le Developpement Rural
FAC          Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IRAT         Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
et Cultures Vivrieres
IRCT         Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et Textiles
MRD          Ministry of Rural Development
OPAT         Office des Produits Agricoles Togolais
PY           Project Year
PROPTA       Projet de Promotion de la Traction Animale
SOTOCO       Societe Togolaise du Coton
SRCC         Societe pour la Renovation du Cafe et du Cacao au Togo
TOGOGRAIN    Public food marketing agency of Togo
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government and SOTOCO       -    January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:      The Republic of Togo
Beneficiary:  Soci6t6 Togolaise du Coton (SOTOCO)
Amount:        SDR 21.7 million (US$23.5 million equivalent)
Terms;         Standard
Co-Lenders:   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
Project
Description:  The project would follow the First Rural Development Project in
Cotton Areas and would be executed by the Societe Togolaise du
Coton (SOTOCO). The project aims to expand the production of
food crops and cotton grown by smallholder farmers. Financing
would be provided for: a) strengthening SOTOCO's extension and
animal traction services; b) applied research, seed multiplica-
tion and seed quality control; c) supply to farmers of incre-
mental fertilizers, pesticides, and equipment; d) reconstruction
and upgrading of feeder roads; e) tubewells in villages without
dry season potable water; f) storage capacity, minor infrastruc-
ture for cotton ginneries, trucks, stores, workshops, offices,
and housing; g) a project monitoring and evaluation unit; and
h) technical assistance support.
Benefits
and Risks:    As a result of the project, by PY5 the average income of
participating farmers would increase from about US$412 to
US$765. Annual cotton production is expected to increase by
18,400 t and food crop production would increase by 38,000 t.
The FOB value of incremental cotton lint and seed would amount
to US$11.5 million (in constant 1982 dollars). The farmgate
value of incremental food crop production would amount to about
US$7 million. In addition to quantifiable benefits, the
project would strengthen SOTOCO's management and the extension
network. There are no major technological risks. However, the
success of the project will depend on the calibre of project
management and staff and of the technical assistance team as
well as full and timely provision of Government funding.
Medium and longer term prospects for the international price of
cotton fiber appear to be good.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents rnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost                             Local           Foreign            Total
-----------US$ million-------------
Headquarters Services (including            1.1               3.7              4.8
fellowships)
Extension Services                          2.1              3.6               5.6
Seed Production                             0.8              1.1               2.0
Applied Research                            0.8               0.7              1.5
Animal Traction                             1.1               1.2              2.2
Fertilizers and Pesticides                  0.4              3.6               4.0
Feeder Roads                                1.8              5.2               7.0
Village Water Supply                        1.8               2.5              4.3
Ginning/Storage Investments                 0.2              0.2               0.4
Transportation Investments                  0.5              2.6               3.1
Monitoring and Evaluation                   0.6              0.8               1.3
Study of Follow-up Project                   -               0.1               0.1
Baseline total                       11.0              25.2             36.3
Physical Contingencies                0.5               1.8               2.4
Price Contingencies                   3.8               6.3              10.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST (incl. $2.3             15.3             33.4              48.7
million taxes)
Non-incremental Expenditures               17.9             50.1              68.0
TOTAL PROGRAM COST (incl. $4.3             33.2             83.5             116.7
million taxes)
Financing Plan
IDA                                         5.2             18.3              23.5
CCCE                                        4.4             11.8              16.2
FAC                                         1.1              3.3               4.4
Government                                  4.6               -                4.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         15.3             33.4              48.7
Farmers/Cotton Bareme                       9.8             47.9              57.8
Government                                  8.1              2.2              10.3
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                         33.2             83.5             116.7
Estimated Disbursements       ----------------US$Million------------------
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Annual                        0.70   3.85   4.30   4.65   4.60   4.00   1.40
Cumulative                    0.70   4.55   8.85  13.50  18.10  22.10  23.50
Economic Rate of Return:      21 percent
Estimated Completion Date:  October 1, 1987
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 3920-TO, dated October 21, 1982
Map: IBRD 16296



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Togo for SDR 21.7 million (US$23.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second rural
development project in cotton areas. Cofinancing is expected from the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in a loan equivalent to
US$16.2 million and from the French Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) in a
grant equivalent to US$4.4 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Togo:  Country Economic Memorandum"
(3416-TO) was circulated to the Executive Directors in January 1982. Its
assessment of the country's economic prospects, updated by recent Bank mis-
sions, is reflected in the following paragraphs. Annex I contains basic
economic data and selected social indicators.
Introduction
3.        Togo is a small country (56,000 km2) with a population of about
2.5 million and a per capita GNP of US$363 (1980). Phosphate mining is
the principal source of foreign exchange earnings, accounting for nearly 40
percent of export revenues in 1979/80, and receipts from phosphates represent
about 30 percent of Government revenues. Political stability has prevailed
since 1967, when a military Government came to power. General Eyadema remains
President, but the Government has gradually become entirely civilian. Togo's
external policy, in the spirit of the Lome I and II Conventions, favors
regional and international cooperation.
Economic Performance
4.        Slow growth and increasing financial disequilibria have been the
main features of the Togolese economy since the late 1970s. The slow growth
represents a deceleration from historical growth trends, and is the result
of poor performance by many state enterprises and a persistent stagnation or
decline in the prices and quantities of exports. The 1974/75 boom in world
phosphate prices contributed to a substantial increase in export earnings and
Government revenues, and prompted the Government to adopt an ambitious Devel-
opment Plan for 1976-80. Nevertheless, growth in real GDP averaged less than
3 percent per annum during the 1975-80 period, and was negative in 1981.
The resource gap widened significantly through 1978 as expenditures outpaced
production. Gross domestic investment rose sharply to exceed 50 percent of
GDP in 1978, but declined to an estimated 18 percent in 1981, as fiscal
constraints necessitated a cutback.



- 2 -
5.        The primary sector accounts for about 30 percent of GDP, but employs
80 percent of the labor force. Growth has been limited by inadequate invest-
ment, insufficient price incentives, and occasional droughts. (For a more
detailed discussion, see paras 17-20 below.) The secondary sector accounts
for about 20 percent of GDP, with most industrial development conducted by
state enterprises. The recent growth in this sector is attributable to
phosphate rock production, which has, however, experienced dramatic swings as
a result of the 1974 price increase, a price decrease in 1975/1976, another
increase in 1980, and the shifts in demand which accompanied these price
changes. Large investments in industrial projects following the 1974/75 boom
in phosphate prices have failed to contribute to an increase in GDP, because
of the low or occasionally negative value added realized by several of the new
industrial units. The tertiary sector accounts for about 50 percent of GDP.
Togo has traditionally served as a regional trading center with an open-door
policy. Private investors have tended to favor commerce, real estate and
financial services over industrial ventures. A rapid increase in public
services led to a growth in government employment from 22,500 in 1975 to 37,500
in 1978; however, financial problems necessitated restraint from 1979 on.
Public Finance
6.        In 1975, current revenues of the Government nearly doubled to CFAF
33 billion as revenue from phosphates tripled from CFAF 4 to 12 billion. In
1976, the first year of the third Five-Year Plan, the Government embarked upon
its expansionary program just when the phosphate market weakened. However,
while phosphate prices fell, demand and output rose, and -- supplemented by
higher import duty receipts -- current revenue continued to rise. Although
current expenditure also increased rapidly, mainly due to a rising wage bill,
a sizeable surplus was left to finance both investment and debt service until
1978 when debt service obligations became overwhelming.
7.        Public investment (in current prices) of the administration, state
enterprises and agencies increased from CFAF 30 billion in 1975 to CFAF 88
billion in 1978, and continued at the still high but reduced rate of about
CFAF 67 billion in 1980, as disbursements were made on projects being imple-
mented. Although the 1976-80 Development Plan had placed more emphasis on
rural development than previous plans, during implementation major shortfalls
were experienced for this category while more expenditures than planned were
devoted to infrastructure, tourism and industry.
8.        In recent years, many state enterprises have been unable to pay the
debt service on their foreign borrowings, and the Treasury has had to shoulder
the responsibility. Arrears have accumulated as payments lagged. In 1979,
Togo agreed with the IMF on a financial program, and rescheduled its debt
through the Paris Club for 1979-80. A second round of debt rescheduling (for
1981-82) and a second standby arrangement with the IMF were obtained in early
1981. Even after debt rescheduling, the ratio of debt service to current
revenues was about 35 percent in 1981. Because of a decline in Government
revenues in 1981, a sizeable portion of the rescheduled debt service obliga-
tions was not met. The financial program with the IMF was abandoned, and the
debt rescheduling for 1982 through the Paris Club has been left in abeyance.
The Government is currently trying to meet the preconditions for a new program
with the IMF.



- 3 -
9.       To ease these severe fiscal restraints, Government has adopted tax
and customs reforms, increased the rates charged by some public utilities,
limited civil service hiring and salary increases, and reduced extrabudgetary
expenditures. In addition, public investments were reduced to about CFAF 35
billion in 1981 and are not expected to exceed CFAF 32 billion in 1982.
Structural Adjustment
10.       In parallel with efforts to reach an agreement with the IMF on a
financial stabilization program and its own budgetary and tax reforms, the
Government is pursuing an intensive dialogue with the Bank on the adoption of
a structural adjustment program. The main elements of such a program would
include: a) rehabilitation of state enterprises, b) promotion and diversifi-
cation of exports through stronger incentives in the rural sector and greater
value added in mining, and c) improved macro-economic management. Further
action on the proposed program is now awaiting agreement between Government
and the IMF on short-term stabilization measures.
Prospects for the 1982-85 Period
11.       In the 1982-85 period, the outlook is for average annual real GDP
growth of about 3.4 percent, i.e., an increase in GDP per capita of about one
percent per annum. The pursuit of less expansionary policies is expected to
lead to a substantially smaller resource gap and higher domestic savings.
12.       In agriculture there is a potential for increasing the output of
both food and export crops, and growth is projected to be about 3 percent
annually, assuming favorable weather conditions. An increase in food crop
production could be achieved through wider use of modern production tech-
niques. Cotton production is expected to increase at about 16 percent per
year with continued IDA support.  As a whole, the secondary sector is pro-
jected to expand at an average annual rate of 4 percent. Output in mining
could increase considerably if transfers of funds from the phosphate mining
company to the Treasury are not excessive so that the company can increase its
capacity, and if the Bank-supported CIMAO clinker plant is able to overcome
its current problems. The outlook for the tertiary sector points to an annual
growth rate of 3 percent. Because of the severe financial constraints growth
in public services and civil service employment will have to be reduced to a
bare minimum. Growth in transport and commerce is, on the contrary, likely to
quicken.
13.       Notwithstanding the debt rescheduling in 1981, and the possibility
of a third round of debt rescheduling in 1983, judicious policies will be
required during the next three years if rising debt service obligations are to
be met while a minimum development effort is maintained. Except for enclave-
type operations, there is no scope for additional borrowing on financial
markets, and new investments will be feasible only to the extent that grants
and concessionary loans are available. With the restoration of a sounder
financial situation, Togo's longer term development prospects remain pro-
mising, as there is considerable scope to better exploit the resource base of
the economy.



- 4 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
14.       Bank Group lending to Togo totals fourteen credits amounting to
US$112.3 million, and two loans totaling US$53.0 million, for the CIMAO
regional clinker project (a loan of US$3.5 million to Togo, and one of
US$49.5 million to CIMAO jointly and severally guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory
Coast, and Togo). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Group
operations as of August 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects. In addition to the CIMAO project, Bank Group lending has included
roads; agriculture (cocoa, coffee, cotton and food crops); education;
technical assistance to the Ministries of Plan, Rural Development, and
Industry and State Enterprises; a regional DFC operation; and feasibility
studies for a phosphate fertilizer project and a regional hydroelectric
power project.
15.       IDA has made four previous agricultural credits, which are described
in para 27 below. The four credits in the road sector supported efforts to
build up an efficient maintenance service, upgrade the country's main and more
heavily trafficked roads, and start a comprehensive transport planning and
coordination system. A separate project for feeder road development provides
for improvement works and maintenance operations. The objective of the First
Technical Assistance Project has been to help the Government formulate sound
investment and public finance policies. The Second Project will permit con-
tinued technical assistance in support of the implementation of an envisaged
structural adjustment program. An Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit
will help to determine the technical and economic viability of developing a
phosphate fertilizer project in Togo. A similar engineering credit, approved
in FY82, will help to assess the viability of the Nangbeto hydroelectric
scheme (a regional project being planned jointly with Benin). An ongoing
education project finances the construction of teacher training facilities,
expansion of existing facilities and fellowships.
16.       Togo's performance with respect to project implementation and
disbursement is generally satisfactory. The Government is by now quite
familiar with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Delays are
sometimes encountered, however, because of the cumbersome administrative
regulations used in Togo to award public contracts. The Government is sensi-
tive to this problem and is working with the Bank to find appropriate means to
simplify the procedures.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
17.       The agriculture sector accounts for 80 percent of employment,
30 percent of GDP, and 30 percent of export revenues. Approximately 11
percent of the geographic area is cultivated.  An estimated 265,000 families
are engaged in agriculture and typically grow food crops or food crops and
cotton on about two ha. Food crops: maize, sorghum/millet, cassava, yams,
beans, groundnuts, and rice account for 450,000 ha of the cultivated area.
Industrial crops: oil palm, coffee, cocoa, and cotton account for about
160,000 hectares.



- 5 -
18.       Despite reliance primarily on traditional production techniques,
Togo is still largely self-sufficient in food crops, except during serious
droughts. Nevertheless, food crop yields are low, and there is considerable
scope for growth. The use of fertilizer, insecticides, and improved seeds is
negligible, and the effectiveness of extension services is uneven. Both
producer and consumer prices of food crops fluctuate dramatically annually,
in response to climatic conditions, and seasonally because of limited storage
facilities. The basic diet of tubers, cereals, and legumes, supplemented by
small amounts of meat is often insufficient in terms of calories as well as
protein content. The demand for food in the Togolese urban market and food
deficit regions in neighbouring countries (especially Nigeria) is growing and
is exerting upward pressure on domestic food prices, thus increasing farmer
incentives. The longrun export potential for food crops is promising.
19.       Coffee, cocoa, and cotton are the major cash crops.  In the past
coffee and cocoa production decreased because producer prices were not
remunerative enough and the yields of trees were declining due to age.
Increases in producer prices and replanting programs should, however, soon
begin to have an effect on coffee output. The producer price for cotton is
comparatively low, but production is encouraged by the subsidization of
fertilizers, although the subsidy was reduced by half for the 1981/82 growing
season. Cotton is grown in rotation with food crops, and unlike food crops,
is sold by farmers at a guaranteed producer price which may encourage its
production over that of food crops.
20.       Hitherto, Government has promoted export crops through crop-specific
projects and small, area-specific rural development projects. Although the
impact of the crop-specific projects has been diminished by Government's
restrictive pricing policy, when considered individually they have been
relatively successful. However, there has been little or no coordination
among the dozen or more area-specific projects, currently in various stages
of execution, which have been designed by different donors, and a consistent
and coherent strategy has not been developed. Some projects include autonomous
extension and other services, an arrangement which may result in duplication
and inefficiency. Overall, food crops have been neglected. Government now
recognizes the need to promote balanced and coordinated agricultural develop-
ment. Actions required in order to achieve this goal include: (i) careful
planning and coordination of Togo's rural development strategy, focusing
primarily on smallholder farming and diversification of crops; (ii) review
and revision of producer prices for export crops and of input prices; (iii)
restructuring of institutions, agencies, and projects so as to streamline
functions and reduce duplication of efforts; (iv) provision of services to
the agricultural sector; and (v) progression towards more effective decen-
tralization of development responsibilities to the regions. Over the next
two years, technical assistance will be provided to MRD for planning and
research coordination, and during the next year an evaluation of all on-going
and completed projects will be carried out. These activities, to be financed
under the Second Technical Assistance Project, will assist Government to
achieve the above mentioned objectives and to improve aid coordination.



-6-
Institutional Arrangements
21.       A national extension service is organized under the five semi-
autonomous "Directions Regionales pour le Developpement Rural" (DRDRs), which
come under the Ministry of Rural Development. The DRDRs currently employ
about 600 extension agents and are intended to play increasingly the role
of regional development agencies but are constrained by the inadequacy of
operating funds, trained personnel, and equipment. Extension agents are
poorly motivated and do not have the means to make much impact. Agricultural
training at the graduate and diploma levels is generally adequate, although
the system is handicapped by lack of operating funds. Base level training
of extension staff and pilot farmers, particularly under the DRDRs, is less
satisfactory. For these reasons, parastatal agencies such as SOTOCO for
cotton and food crops, SRCC for cocoa and coffee, and various agricultural
development projects have tended to develop their own extension and training
services. The possibility of creating an effective national extension service
will be addressed by the above mentioned study and technical assistance.
22.       Agricultural research is handled by a number of Government agencies
and projects and through international agencies such as IRCT for cotton and
IRAT for food crops. Greater coordination of such efforts is needed in order
to avoid duplication and set appropriate priorities. This problem will be
addressed by a research coordination unit to be created within the MRD under
the Second Technical Assistance Project. In addition, most agricultural
development projects have a seed multiplication component based on foundation
seeds provided by their applied research programs. Lack of coordination among
these projects often results in duplication of efforts and poor seed quality.
The proposed project would provide for a seed quality control unit as well as
coordination of seed multiplication.
23.       Marketing of export crops is handled by the state marketing enter-
prise OPAT. In 1980, OPAT's gross.sales amounted to US$79 million and, due
to low farmgate prices, particularly for cocoa and coffee, resulted in profits
of US$40 million. OPAT surpluses represent about 8 percent of Government
revenues. Food crop marketing is handled primarily by a thriving private
network of traders. Although some concern has been expressed by Government
that trader operations are monopolistic and involve speculation and excess
profits, analysis of these channels suggests that the system is fairly
competitive and efficient and that price markups are not excessive. Partly in
response to this concern and also in response to the considerable fluctuations
in food crop prices both during and between seasons, Government established
TOGOGRAIN in the early 1970s for the purpose of stabilizing the market,
building up grain reserves, and providing an alternative sales outlet to
farmers. Technical and managerial problems have caused TOGOGRAIN to be a
costly enterprise with little impact upon the market.
24.       SOTOCO was the primary implementing agency of the First Rural Devel-
opment Project in Cotton Areas (Credit 741-TO) and would continue in this role
under the proposed second project. It is a state enterprise created in 1974
as a national cotton development agency with responsibility for extension
work, technical support, and primary marketing of cotton. Its responsibilities
were amended under the first project to include food crops cultivated in
cotton areas, and it is now increasingly handling cotton processing.



- 7 -
Subsidies, Prices and the Cotton Bareme
25.       SOTOCO sells to farmers, at full cost, food crop pesticides, improved
food crop seeds, and cotton sprayer batteries, which it purchases from Govern-
ment's input procurement agency. Fertilizers are sold at 50 percent of cost.
Pesticides for cotton are provided free. Under the proposed project, food
crop pesticides, food crop seeds and batteries would continue to be sold at
full cost and the fertilizer subsidy would be progressively phased out by PY5
(Section 4.02 of Development Credit Agreement). In order to avoid delays
associated with ordering through Government's input procurement agency, SOTOCO
would be enabled to purchase inputs directly (Section 3.06 of Development
Credit Agreement). The financial arrangements ("bareme") between OPAT and
SOTOCO are intended to provide reimbursement to SOTOCO of direct costs asso-
ciated with cotton production, purchasing, processing, and transportation but
have to date not completely covered such costs, with the result that SOTOCO
has had to rely on funding from the Treasury budget. Under the proposed
project, cotton fertilizer subsidies would be included, during the phase out
period, in the cotton bareme. The OPAT-SOTOCO bareme would also be modified
to include full coverage of marketing, ginning and other associated costs
(Section 3.05 of Development Credit Agreement).
26.       Producer prices for seed cotton are below economic producer values
and the prices offered in most West African countries, and farmer returns
from cotton production in Togo are marginal in comparison to returns from
improved food crop production. Under the proposed project prices would be
adjusted annually to take account of movements in the international price of
cotton, and to compensate for the production cost increase resulting from
removal of fertilizer subsidies, general inflation and the price trend of
competing food crops. Analysis carried out by the Appraisal Team indicates
that an immediate increase in the cotton price from CFAF 65/kg to about CFAF
75/kg would be appropriate. The announcement of prices for the 1983/84
season, with a minimum seed cotton price of CFAF 75/kg and the fertilizer
subsidies reduced to 40 percent, would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01 of Development Credit Agreement and Supplemental Letter 2).
Subsequently, the price analysis and monitoring unit to be established in
OPAT under the First Technical Assistance Project would review prices annually.
The resulting price recommendations would be discussed annually with IDA, and
the agreed cotton price would be announced annually at the same time as input
prices are announced for the subsequent growing season. (Sections 4.03 and
4.04 of Development Credit Agreement).
IDA Financed Projects in The Rural Sector
27.       IDA has financed four rural development projects.  Two Cocoa/Coffee
Development Projects support the planting of coffee and cocoa and the
replanting of cocoa. The first project (Credit 503-TO) began in 1975 and
has been satisfactorily completed. In the second project (Credit 945-TO),
the coffee component is progressing satisfactorily but the cocoa component is
experiencing difficulties. The Maritime Region Rural Development Project
(Credit 638-TO) will terminate at end 1982 and has been unsuccessful for
a variety of reasons, including difficult ecological conditions and weak



- 8 -
technical management. The Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas (Credit
741-TO) was initiated in 1977 and was successfully completed in June 1982; it
was the precursor to the project proposed here. The main objectives of this
project were to increase national cotton production and the production
of food crops grown in rotation with cotton. Cotton production in 1981
reached 20,800 t, compared to a project target for 1981 of 23,900 t, and to
an average annual production of 6,700 t prior to the project. The project's
impact upon food crop production has, however, been less successful: 4,150 ha
of improved food crops at the final development stage (involving improved
husbandry, use of fertilizer and improved seed, and rotation with cotton)
were planted in 1981 as against a target for that year of 10,100 ha. The
accomplishments of the project include initiation of an effective extension
service and improvements in financial management. Shortfalls of the project
include inadequate attention to animal traction, failure to establish a
monitoring and evaluation unit, insufficient recruitment and training of
Togolese senior and mid-level staff, inefficient management of cotton trans-
portation, and SOTOCO's unsatisfactory financial arrangements with Government
and OPAT. Despite these shortcomings, the economic rate of return of the
first project is re-estimated at 22 percent, as compared with 32 percent
estimated at appraisal, and a technical and managerial basis has been
established for the proposed follow-up project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Objectives and Summary Description
28.       The proposed project would follow-up and address the weaknesses
of the First Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas. As such, it would
continue and consolidate the accomplishments of that project, while placing
special emphasis on redressing the problems and shortfalls which were
encountered. Cotton production would be expanded, but more emphasis would
be placed on food crops grown by participating farmers. SOTOCO would continue
to be the project executing agency, and its efficiency would be upgraded
through vigorous recruitment and training of Togolese personnel and provision
of technical assistance. The project would include: (i) strengthening of
SOTOCO's extension service; (ii) multiplication of improved seeds for food
crops; (iii) promotion of animal traction; (iv) provision to farmers of
fertilizer, pesticides and equipment; (v) supportive applied research; (vi)
reconstruction and periodic maintenance of essential feeder roads; (vii)
provision of tubewells in villages without dry season potable water; (viii)
additional storage capacity and minor infrastructure for cotton ginneries,
and trucks for transport of cotton and inputs; (ix) field stores, regional
offices, workshops, housing, and expansion of the headquarters office; (x)
establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation unit; (xi) technical
assistance support; and (xii) support to the Ministry of Rural Development
for seed quality control and national coordination of food crop seed produc-
tion.



- 9-
Complementarity with Other IDA Financed Activities
29.       Several activities which are being financed under the first and
second IDA Technical Assistance Projects (Credits 930-TO and 1270-TO) provide
support for the planning and execution of the proposed project. Of particu-
lar relevance are the establishment within OPAT of a price analysis and
monitoring unit with the objective of formulating a coherent price policy by
the end of 1983 (see para 26), and the proposed creation within the Ministry
of Rural Development of a unit to coordinate agricultural research. In
addition, a study of the role of TOGOGRAIN in the marketing of food crops has
been financed directly by the Bank.  The project itself would support the
goals of the proposed structural adjustment program.
The Project Area
30.       Given the wide distribution of cotton growing in Togo, the project
would entail a geographic coverage comprising, as under the first project,
most of Togo's land area in the Savanna, Kara, Central and Plateau Regions as
well as the cotton growing area in the northeast of the Maritime Region and
the Mo plain in the west of the Central Region (see map). In total, this
amounts to a land area of some 46,000 km2 and comprises a rural population
of about 1.4 million people or 215,000 families. A goal of the project is to
involve 65,500 families by PY5. In areas where other agricultural projects
are in progress (including a GTZ project in the Central Region, projects in
the north financed by UNDP and others, and a proposed IFAD project in the
southeast of the Plateau Region), SOTOCO's intervention would, as previously,
be restricted to the supply of cotton inputs, cotton marketing, and advice
and training on cotton production techniques.
Project Implementation
31.       The project would be implemented over five years.  As under the
first project, SOTOCO would be the implementing agency, either directly or
through arrangements between SOTOCO and other specialized agencies. Exceptions
to this would be the project component supporting the national seed multiplica-
tion program and the study of a possible follow-up project, which would be
managed under the General Directorate of Agriculture of the Ministry of Rural
Development (MRD). The Project would promote the production of cotton and the
main food crops grown by participating farmers. The food crops covered would
be maize, sorghum, groundnuts, paddy, and cowpeas. Agronomic packages would
be based on techniques proven under the first project and would cover improved
crop husbandry with particular attention to timely sowing, plant density,
weeding, and rotational practices; use of fertilizers and improved seed
varieties; spraying of cotton and selective use of pesticides on other crops;
promotion of animal traction; and post-harvest protection. This would be
facilitated by a further consolidation and improvement of the extension system
that has been successfully initiated under the first project.
32.       In the longer term, Government envisages that SOTOCO's role would
be reduced to that of a specialized cotton development agency responsible for
marketing, processing, input supply and provision of technical advice to the



- 10 -
cotton sector, leaving extension and other rural development support activi-
ties to a nationally administered extension service under the DRDRs. Never-
theless, for at least the five-year project implementation period, Government
recognizes that the DRDR's and their extension services are not sufficiently
developed to handle these activities and SOTOCO would, therefore, continue to
act as a general rural development agency in Togo's cotton areas. Under the
project, inefficiency in some ares of SOTOCO's management would be corrected
through technical assistance, the addition of an Assistant General Director,
and the reorganization of headquarters into four departments: Agricultural
Production; Finance and Administration; Industrial; and Marketing. These
improvements would create the capacity for SOTOCO's possible restructuring
(after PY5) into a separate company with those reduced functions. Similarly,
the upgrading and regionalization of SOTOCO's field services could permit
the eventual transfer from SOTOCO to the DRDRs of a well-trained, polyvalent
extension service as part of the institutional restructuring mentioned in
para 20. With this possible future scenario in mind, and in order to reduce
the number of activities that SOTOCO (and eventually the DRDRs) must handle
and to support the institutional development of other Government agencies, a
number of project components would be subcontracted by SOTOCO to specialized
Government agencies as described below. Contractual arrangements governing
these linkages would be subject to prior approval by IDA (Section 3.01(f) of
Development Credit Agreement).
33.       For the project's animal traction component, PROPTA (public agency
for animal traction) would procure oxen and implements and provide related
services. Medium term credit for these items would be provided by CNCA.
Seasonal inputs would be provided by SOTOCO on a cash or credit basis for
cotton growing farmers and on a cash basis for non-cotton growing farmers.
As at present, SOTOCO would recover seasonal credit through reductions on
payments to farmers during seed cotton marketing. All loans would be subject
to an annual interest rate of 10 percent. This is low in view of inflation
rates and administrative costs. However, the distortion caused by fertilizer
subsidies is far more important (see para 25), and medium term credit pro-
vided by CNCA is extremely small and would not be financed by IDA. Applied
agricultural research would, as currently, be sub-contracted by SOTOCO to
IRCT (cotton) and IRAT (food crops). Government's food crop seed multiplica-
tion program would be supported through establishment of a small seed farm
for maintenance of varieties, a seed quality control unit, and a seed multi-
plication coordinating committee. Contracts for drilling the project's 400
tubewells in villages without ready access to dry-season water would be
arranged by a specialized department in the Ministry of Public Works which
would also supervise construction and subsequent maintenance. Beneficiary
villages would make in-kind and labor contributions, an arrangement which has
been used successfully in Togo.
34.       Periodic maintenance of feeder roads would be carried out by SOTOCO's
proven feeder roads unit. In addition, 950 km of feeder roads would be recon-
structed under the project, but SOTOCO's unit would do only half of the
reconstruction work; the remaining 475 km would be subcontracted by SOTOCO to
the feeder roads unit in the Ministry of Rural Works. This option has been
chosen to provide continued support to the Ministry of Rural Works unit
subsequent to completion in 1983 of the IDA supported Feeder Roads Project
(Credit 810-TO). If the performance of the Rural Works unit continues to



- 11 -
improve, the merging after PY5 of the SOTOCO unit with the Ministry of Rural
Works unit could be considered. The project would finance a slight expansion
of SOTOCO's truck transport fleet, but to the extent possible, transport would
be contracted to private truckers. Ginning capacity would be expanded through
the construction of a seed cotton store to prolong the ginning season.
Because of a lack of adequate housing in Atakpame (SOTOCO's seat) and in
regional centers, ten houses for SOTOCO senior personal would be constructed
under the project.
35.       The General Director of SOTOCO has been highly competent, and the
technical assistance team has performed well. Under the proposed project,
more emphasis would be placed on the selection and retention of competent
staff at all levels and, where necessary, the replacement of unsatisfactory
staff. The positions of General Director, Assistant General Director and
Director of the Marketing Department of SOTOCO would be filled by persons
whose qualifications are satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
Internationally recruited staff are expected to be needed for the following
technical assistance positions: the directors of the Agricultural Production,
Finance and Administration, and Industrial Departments; the heads of the
engineering division and the monitoring and evaluation unit; the chief of the
extension services; the chief of the farmer groups and credit service, a cost
accountant, a seed production agronomist for SOTOCO, an agronomist for the
national seed production component, and two workshop managers; a total of 12
positions aggregating 42 man-years. Short-term consultancies and fellowships
for Togolese counterparts who would be trained by the expatriate staff would
also be provided. The Togolese staff would be expected to gradually take
over responsibility during the latter part of the project, at which time the
expatriate staff would assume an advisory role. The selection, appointment
and elaboration of terms of reference for all technical assistance staff and
short-term consultants would be through procedures satisfactory to IDA; the
qualifications of such staff would be satisfactory to IDA; and technical
assistance arrangements would be reviewed annually in order to identify needs
as they occur and to permit maximum flexibility in the transfer of responsi-
bilities to Togolese staff (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement and Section
3.01 of Development Credit Agreement). The appointment of a General Director
and the signing of a satisfactory contract or contracts for the first six
technical assistance positions described above would be conditions of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
SOTOCO's Finances
36.       To build up SOTOCO's capital, farmer repayments against the quanti-
ties of fertilizer financed by external sources under the project would be
retained by SOTOCO and added to its reserves (Section 3.04 of Development
Credit Agreement). This would amount to about US$2.3 million over the five
years and would result in a stronger liquidity position for SOTOCO and the
build up of SOTOCO's capacity for eventual reinvestment in plant out of its
own resources. In addition, the phase-out of fertilizer subsidies and the
modifications to the bareme described in para 25 would diminish the size of
the Treasury contribution to SOTOCO, particularly in the critical area of
input supply, thereby increasing SOTOCO's financial autonomy. While surpluses
earned by OPAT through the margin on export revenues would be reduced as a
result of these measures, annual OPAT surpluses would remain positive and are



- 12 -
expected later on to increase as a result of expected increases in interna-
tional prices. Taking OPAT surpluses and expected cotton price increases into
account, Government's financial cash flow as a result of the SOTOCO development
program would amount to a total of US$44.2 million over the five-year period.
Costs and Financing
37.       Project costs are estimated at US$48.7 million, including taxes,
with a foreign exchange component of US$33.4 million or 69 percent. Physical
contingencies of 8 percent for capital costs and 10 percent for operating
costs (excluding personnel) and allowances for expected local and interna-
tional price increases over the project implementation period (ranging from
6 to 11 percent) have been included.
38.       In view of Togo's difficult current and medium-term financial con-
straints, it is proposed that external financing should amount to an excep-
tionally high proportion - 95 percent - of project costs, or US$44.1 million.
External financing would be divided among cofinancers as follows: IDA
(US$23.5 million), CCCE (US$16.2 million), and FAC (US$4.4 million). These
funds would be channeled through the Central Bank, the Government agency for
handling all official foreign financing, and passed on by Government as
grants. SOTOCO would receive the bulk (US$42.0 million) of this, the remainder
going to CNCA for an animal traction credit fund (US$1.l million) and to MRD
for the national seed production component and study of a possible third
project (US$1.0 million). Surpluses would be incurred by OPAT rather than
SOTOCO and would subsequently be passed on to the Government Treasury. Govern-
ment would provide US$4.6 million to the cost of the project and would remain
responsible for non-incremental recurrent costs and non-incremental farm
inputs (Section 3.01(e) of Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
39.       Building, Plant and Equipment.  The construction of storage facili-
ties, office and laboratory buildings, houses and workshops for SOTOCO head-
quarters, field services, and feeder roads (IDA contribution US$2.7 million)
would be through local competitive bidding for the larger structures and through
arrangements by which farmers would provide labor and SOTOCO would supply
materials for simpler structures. International competitive bidding would not
be justified in view of the dispersed nature and individually small size of
each of the constructions. Tubewell construction (IDA contribution US$3.0
million) would be through international competitive bidding. Tenders for
pesticides and sprayers, and for vehicles and equipment for field services
and monitoring and evaluation would be grouped as far as possible in appro-
priate bidding packages and procured through international competitive bidding
(IDA contribution US$4.8 million). Fertilizers and plant and equipment for
seed production, research, ox-cultivation, ginning and transportation would be
financed by CCCE and FAC and procured according to their guidelines.
Services. Contracts for 46 man-years of technical assistance
(including studies) valued on average at US$10,100 per man-month, in line
with experience in Togo, and with a total value of US$5.0 million (IDA
contribution US$2.5 million) would be procured in accordance with IDA and



- 13 -
Government procedures for international recruitment. IDA financing of the
fellowship program and of the study of a follow-up project would amount to
US$0.9 million.
Other Expenditures. About US$18.5 million of the project expen-
ditures representing operating costs and local salaries (IDA contribution
US$9.7 million) would be committed in accordance with established Government
procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement
40.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed to cover:
*             (a)  12 percent of the cost of buildings, houses and equipment for
SOTOCO headquarters;
(b) 100 percent of foreign exchange and 95 percent of local costs
of buildings and equipment for field services, monitoring and
evaluation;
(c) 70 percent of the cost of buildings, plant and equipment for
periodic maintenance and reconstruction of feeder roads;
(d) 75 percent of foreign exchange and 68 percent of local costs
of buildings, plant and equipment for water supply;
(e) 42 percent of total local personnel and operating costs, excluding
ox-cultivation;
(f) 50 percent of the cost of expatriate personnel;
(g) 100 percent of the cost of studies and fellowships;
(h) 21 percent of total pesticide and sprayer costs;
About US$2.0 million would be unallocated. US$2.0 million would be available
for retroactive financing of expenditures made after September 30, 1982, but
before signature of the credit. Disbursements under (a), (c), (d), (e), and
(f) would be pari-passu with CCCE and/or FAC. For (b), (g) and (h), IDA
would be the only external contributor.
Reporting Requirements and Audit
41.       In addition to specific reports related to monitoring and evalua-
tion and project components subcontracted by SOTOCO to other agencies, a
general report covering all of the project activities would be prepared
annually and supplemented by brief quarterly progress reports. An annual
financial report plus an audit report prepared by independent auditors
satisfactory to IDA would also be prepared within four months of the close of
each financial year (Section 4.01 of Development Credit Agreement and Section
4.02 of Project Agreement).



- 14 -
Project Benefits and Rate of Return
42.       The number of participating farmers is expected to increase from
the current 42,100 families to 65,500 families representing by PY5 one-third
of the farming families in the project area or about 425,000 persons. As a
result of yield increases due to adoption of project recommendations, returns
per hectare and per man-day would increase significantly, and average income
prior to family consumption would increase by 86 percent, providing a strong
stimulus to rural growth. By PY5, incremental production of cotton would
reach 18,400 t representing an 84 percent increase over current production
levels, and food crop production would increase by 38,000 t, the bulk of it
representing surpluses over on farm consumption. This would help meet a
growing domestic demand for foodstuffs and rapidly expanding demand in such
neighboring countries as Nigeria. The FOB value of cotton lint and seed
would amount in constant 1982 terms to US$11.5 milion by PY5 which is equiva-
lent to 5 percent of Togo's 1980 total exports or 29 percent of export
revenues from cocoa and coffee. The farmgate value of incremental food crop
production would amount to about US$7 million.
43.       In addition to these quantifiable benefits, the project would help
strengthen the development institutions involved, in particular, the extension
network and the management of the main implementing agency, SOTOCO. This
could allow future reorganization of Togo's extension system and the eventual
creation of a financially autonomous cotton development agency. Project
measures related to applied research, seed multiplication, village water
supply and feeder road development would have long range benefits beyond the
immediate production impact of the project's field development activities.
44.       Taking into account the costs of all project components and the
incremental benefits described in para 42, the project's rate of return is
estimated at 21 percent. It would fall to about 12 percent with an 11 percent
fall in benefits or a 12 percent rise in costs, and to 16 percent if the
projected farmer participation levels were to fall by 20 percent.
Risks
45.       There are no major technological risks under the proposed project.
The proposed farm development measures have been well tested in Togo and other
ecologically similar West African countries. Furthermore, SOTOCO has proven
itself to be a generally capable implementing agency and current weaknesses
have been specifically addressed in project design, management reorganiza-
tion and supplementary technical assistance. Risks relative to full and
timely provision of Government funding and the financial capacity of SOTOCO
have been minimized by the measures described in paras 25 and 36.
46.       Future market prospects for cotton fiber are good, due to expected
demand growth in developing country markets and expected upward price trends
for the petrochemical based synthetic textiles. A shortfall in expected
participation levels is a possibility, although the success of the first
project in expanding cotton production in four years by over 300 percent
(despite only moderate price incentives for cotton) demonstrates the viability
of cotton production from the farmer's viewpoint. In the past, the develop-
ment of improved food crop production has been constrained primarily by



- 15 -
SOTOCO's limited capacity for multiplication of improved seed rather than
by the farmers' willingness to participate. The assurance relative to the
raising and subsequent maintenance of the farmgate price of seed cotton
should further stimulate financial incentives for the lead crop in the farm
package, and food crop prices are expected to rise in real terms given the
current and projected growth of the domestic and regional market.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Togo and
the Association, the Project Agreement between SOTOCO and the Association,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
48.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are listed in Section III of Annex III. Special conditions of credit effec-
tiveness would be the appointment of a General Director and the first six of
the twelve technical assistance staff listed in para 35, the signing of the
FAC Grant and CCCE Credit Agreements, and the announcement of input prices
and the seed cotton price for the 1983/84 season.
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 4, 1982



- 16 -
Annex I
Page 1
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
I0GO                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL              56.0                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       16.2                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (055)                       90.0       200.0      410.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          21.6         62.7     111.6                   66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      1499.0       1956.0    2503.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)      9.8         13.1       20.0                  17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             4.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             15.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Bl.                           26.8         34.9      43.6                   27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        102.3        122.9      150.7                  86.7                    129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             44.0         45.3      46.4                   44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.4         52.0      50.9                   52.3                     51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.6          2.7        2.7                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.2          2.7       2.5                    2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                  5.2          5.6        6.7                   6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         50.6         48.2       47.8                  47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         26.8         21.8       18.1                  19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.3          3.2        3.2                   3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)            ..          ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              99.0        102.0      78.0                   88.7                     90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       97.1         94.9      91.9/c                90.2                      93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              46.0         46.1      48.77!                 53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           11.5         11.6      12.7/c                18.4                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         41.8         28.1       21.1                  26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2         42.2      47.1                   45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              181.5        134.0      109.0                 129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         '7.0      16.0/d                 23.9
URBAN                                   *-           *-      49.07                  54.9
RURAL                                    ..         5.0      10.07d                 18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA. DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PQPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         1.0       15.0/d                25.8
URBAN                                   ..          4.0      36.571                 63.1
RURAL                                    -          1.0      12.07d                 29.2                       -
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             35756.1      27942.9   18164.1/c             32097.3                   14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         5341.2/e    4170.6    1735.171               3264.6                    2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                777.5        649.3/f   676.3/c              1225.0                    1036.4
URBAN                                205.0/e      155.5     243.071               249.5                     430.8
RURAL                               1032.07    1450.2    1151.07               1712.1                    3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                ..        18.6/g
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..         5.8
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
LRBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..



- 17 -
Annex I
Page 2
TOGO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TOGO                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 44.0         69.0     110.0                  63.2                     83.3
MALE                  63.0        95.0      136.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                24.0        42.0       85.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          7.0      32.0                  10.2                     15.3
MALE                   4.0        11.0      48.0                   13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0         3.0       15.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  10.1           9.6       7.6                   7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            59.8         58.5      54.3                  47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                            ..         25.0      42.0                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        10.0/e       15.9      18.0/c                34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          l.9/g        3.7       6.0/b                 3.0                     31.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5         20.4     209.8                  34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       0.7                   1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   1.3          6.6       2.9                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.2/i          ..       I.O/d                 1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       687.1        836.8    1024.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.2         41.3      40.4                  34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         73.0      67.0                  78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  8.0        11.0       15.0                   9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.8         43.8      40.9                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                 56.8         52.3      49.5                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                               35.3         35.6      32.6                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     243.0                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     118.0                  82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     121.0                  96.4                    523.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     121.0                  60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      42.0                  39.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Rcent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f Government hospital establishments; /g 1964; /h 1974; /i 1957.
May, 1982



- 18  -                                                        ~~~~~~Annex  I
DEIITOSOF SOC1AL 1NDICA109FS                                                                     Page        3
Son.:  "`-uogh c)n data are draw  trot sour.e  generaly judged tie Soat autoni aty                    relae,It ucood alc be note  that they nay not be IcIer-
nticnulir  c,anii  hnaus  of  he lack of  ttdardited definitions ead concpts  sdc   ifrn    one  to clLecIng he data--.  The datar.  nuns
chulese  outdo1 to deecrene orders of eageinude  indicate  mmd.. ond charon cantos contain dalontOttt-stance
the toee~e  goups ae (1)  t. sam  couaiy grop of the.u c  co       -ryad (2) aoutry group ott nu-hn., highor o                    ieagcco   then the county droo.p
of thesobiet coutry (ecuptfor   'Hih Ito        Oil  uprar"  rupann   'tiddle bun    onAtiaon.ideLa'L  chosen becus..                                  nons
enciu-cultr.i affinties>.  On the fcnoetc    grop data tieteng. -.S    ppzo.on.iger           n           -d.tc an  cot etchLc itto   ad show  onlyat,
sjonttyof the  ountrie  In a goup hasdeco for thee indluanor.  SInce the--veag   1 conresaog the  dicaicto    depecso  the  -teuianily of data
an Lafo nie.  ceninte   e    n-sd to retaing avesgsf o.iciannt  anutben.  thes ..te.agr.  ore only uc.                            lin cospani.a ths calus of
in.tdicooret1-      s   -sen  the! country and nsfse.... grupe
dREk lt)houand eqk.(Pnuato   e  Oanin  Bed1 - tonal.  1.na, uod rutni - Popu1laion (tota,
TocaI - total  -uf-o  are  copristitg l1ad att  end intend  atr;1979 data.                       uno,an   ua) dicidd    lhy isi   -ee-ri-e noss  of houpice  oto_
A otua-fetCi-an  of ag.cunu             ...esund  -epn-aeilp atpraetyao-ist   uicad pri ~l - nete11  geerl  n  epeciolid h.epi_a ao  e
foe urps.  -otre,aekt ad kitchen gerdsn on to  Le talf               ;179 dota.                bohlitate   cetr.    opitnle  e  setb dilteheetepen-Manney  tat
hy at leas.t one phtye Iulu.  Z-tbliebhseta" pr Mii.  pr-u  aly coto
tIRt  i  EdOOTh, 11.)n-.G ceP.pa  c-pite  siea  a   urn -one  pelee,ta-dia                                 saantincluded.  Rurl huptilel, honaner, luloe    dth
oindby se    onesinmeed as Worta sash axles ai,td   tase   1960                              en md dituf cetrnttpes             l  stffed bc a Pnyscint (hut ty 
1.970, end 19d0 data.                                                                            aedLnel  ..ee..es.e. nurse  n"dif., ec%.) httich ofsr In-ptiet 00
datiot end pennida a lielted ra-so    uie f        eciliion. For.      at,
ENERGY tCttOclTcjl PEiL CAPITA -   -uaa  -ucau     Lpto  of --nia   -cegY (coa                     cccal puroac  ubanhopinale inclake cOdsprtcpa -gtau  hoapltalu.
-nd lignite. perl..ntra   e  and hydro-.  ulu   n   eohra   l;                                   etc rural hnsit:n"      oclo        :re  honyttala acu adcicl odntr
nct)  nclogen  of coal  quin-I.n. pan capita; 1960, 1970.  n  1979                       cnt ps-hncaise   oetu               r  icued  onyIuder toa.
data.                                                             Adetnuicce roe Onep~~~~~~~~~~~~inol te.d - Total nuee  of udaitutun   no on dipchungnu
frmhsrt    inedad hy the tue f bsde.
.tota  .Pntluctic, Kid-teen (rhoanka  - so of Joay i; 1960, 1970, an  1960                   HOUSINGi
data.                                                                 men~~~~~~~~~~a-ce  STe of gu Ibd (pernI, tee hausehId) - tnal utben  and tc-al
aseg  -nuntree; 1960. 1970,  Wa  1960 dat,                                                     the h-neehld toe s.tatist ia  prl     a
pouato   in .ea  2000 - Cunse  ppuiatt   praeniani  ate ... ee.d on 1980                he_c  prosPee.,            i   l   rhs.ad Crnloepiedcnecaa
totl  antnln  byae  ig  e  edthi  mrtatity and tentilicnte.dadge -epaneirely.  Duelling. sanide not-caane- -                                             to  aesa 
tog lIfe eopancaryep a  birth  lonese  fu   -conry's a.           adaIcm                   oa  to fEctnify (prerCoa  of daidlagat - cta., -rban, und rurl-
isnel      f -. an   feml  lf   npeaeu s.. elt.iligiag at77.5 yea-e  lbe pane-              Conniotni dlig with eton,irIllt in~ unit  q---et  as Percenta.ge
macen  ton fertility nate als  horn then 1-ns1  assum..ing  Iet-e in                        oftoa. uret ad rural denliong. e-epeeinely.
heb tn-te  L. the a..ignad now of'ht.hes   ta    atntnn    f            ti'tey         ti    ls
and fetilIty trends for prnje-eda  pupaa.idOCendfroienRts
ctati-neep roroluete  - to.  a snniuarylpnpu1l.tn  chesi o  gnnilr                             Priare eohonl1  tota.1 noe nod inslol  - Cress tutu. nab  ucd irnl
be hne  rat  i    un  tn the death rec, and ae   h  aesrCtut  ne-                           ennolsn   fal-        gsa   h  pimary "e"In  ecnoiatenetc
son.ostn. Ti  is athisne, aely afne fselilly  -ass  declitn  to.niar  ecea-geppuatua  tamlpIoueetldr   sd b-il
ch   elacemen t  s-e  of unit nat rerdaeonnn, abet ChZ. eaienraion                           yeraht odjet.d for differet-  -enths offnlarrncto                    o
of -ame  nplatee itself en-tty.The atenines.y populataenee                                     ocns iti  cteeu    knaio.r.lsa   tynee    0    -penen
netimened on the baste of the pnjtca   hrreraieo   he %                    C-p-a-o             tiat  scm  puIs one iso  o   bonth fficia1 atho-  ego.
In the year 2000, emd th. eons nf'deilu  offetiy              Crat  to replaus-             nenar   thul-tce.ml  and female- Comp,,ton  -a abate;utu
tea  a-aciemay nouaisis reeoid - The Yaee etta  sielnt   oplto                                    rnie   esa.onotnl   r  acertaaugtattineltpp
,iol ciii he renche.                                                                          ualy of 12 tt  7per  of. age; oer..n.cecure  ...gnc
Pen no. km       id-peat postulaion   pa  squan  kio 1ne      00O hectorsol odLctoa   animn   nnet  fecnap                                      OnatcalIannteoce
tal.  area  1960. 197  an  1979 deea.                                                         ouetehia, indidtiel, 2a ohbs  p-ngnom  nhtnh operate  ftted-
ony;1,I0, ISOad    hdte.                                                                  Papil -aoh,t renti - pi-aty. ond -.tnedary - Tonel Ateno-nta ntlek t
Pona1,lottn  kg  .  .eute  frrc.  n  - Childese Id-l4 Yeses). agtgog    15-                      pear   nd _erdar  is.-is diVtdsd by outsrs ,  of ..sahart in the
6yrr.anestre.d  65y.sAk onset ne p-eaetaae of aid-pes  popa-                           ..res.   uing -eel.
innlon; 1960. 19(0. and 1960 date.                                   udnit .!1iteerut  race(rentsnel - Literate adaite (able to nead and onite)
pcpnaiin itsniRat  (ratee) -note  -  enuo  grwnbnets  nftani mi-               aapsrentje  O toal  dul  popietca aed  5 yarn  nddner
year pupaa"in  tar 190-0  1 -7,an1970-d0.
Poo Ctn  deth Rate (rnsn--ura     ana  VyCth nones of  nb.. papu-                     CONiSUMPTION
1oeion. Enr i950-60. 1960-Pt. and 1970-o                                                    PuensDhr  (pee che-aaa  rouaio.-..atetan   cpae   a
CrudeBirthRate(net houaaul -oaoal line bianh  pen thousand of   d-pYor                 Cas  eig ls  then sight  eene  etc :t,de  ascla_en  here 
Crude teeth Usaetee cbh-sasa  - annua  deann  per abeast  of eid-ysar                         Rai  .e.ier  (psr t1hnu-d poeclatienl - All tycreo   rrteni- cc rout
populaton; 190. 197. andI9gf date.                                                     iroedcen   tn gees   tit  pert .....na  t paaalc  ocna   n
Crane Raersdctio  Ret   .. Antge tteof d-ughtere 5 oe   ill bsseL.1L in..cennd rnies  ncutrn                                     it Ysara nisrdltuco   frdio
her norml -sy-d-nine period if to   sptene  pe-seeti...    eg-ptfoInn                           snesi affct;dat .io   r.rn   pests sy notn.                crncett
tilt ty  os;acaI Ieya  ......s  ncdi....            in  1960.  9Sa. and19 Loa                 t                concnaihed litun..o.
of hiJ.-totrs  dsniree ut,s.s     . epLlss adnf oa  fa-Ily planning progra.                  gIee   ubi   e  thnosond ppcnin   ticeu lIcendt   nent
enn  f  atd-n..n  age  15-t  Cvseri)  woa  ns iit-uneP           l nnn  n                itee. e  Ctrula   L.c (rert ho-ndnrlncl-teeteaentr
oil eurried eonni  sm      .aegeu.                                                             tuMlaion of 'dnillgnrlt oentrppa,ditn    e    e  n
ycbli.tnebo   daated p,i-arly to. .e.dng.         tra   ea   It in cnidered
FOOD ANb  unMIvTdN                                                                                 t. he  dailyn  if it appeae at Iess  tone timase k.
lae   f FcodF rnuio   .tnIcst 99-il               -  udsn of par capino  -eta             Cinemapp- dota  treedenne ant Canito Fr Y-  - keen o  toe tuc- of
p-no-tien of nI  on    odtse             edannine uiudea need ark fend en.i.reeId darin~g the year. inldn    dmiai-n  to drin- in ci-esa
is ow calendar peer beet C. Codities ceas  primar  gande (e.g. sugt.....               and   bils unite..
itnsd  faoat  cib  reeible end  tonl          rst   eg. cafee.  ad
tea ens  tnldsd).  iggregat  prndnnIo  of eech ...nr  iaY iaabsd on1000PRE
nutinnl. annags  roogr- price enighte; 1961-65, 19 70 . ad 1990 dena.toa  Lbor PFrc  ith.unntdel - noo...aleally atis-                            esna -iui.
par dsp.  mailable suplis cgeia  domettopl prdais                  eraIe                       o   apa` oh-al.  1960, 1~910s    950 ta i
enports, and rhenges in stark.  Nt euppil         eideaIma  tek  e-a.Psle (P.rtese) - Fmaeiirfaoa    ecntg   ftti  aefre
quantinle  and in fond paneesig.t and lase   n  inrhnin.e.gtr-matulur retnt    tahb  tortein dumi"g. inretry  notig a-d-
acne were aeimeted by P   hose.d es phpeoulogieli nade for .n.-I  -ei-                    fishing as parceneeg  of total inhee fnn...; 19KG. 1970 an.d 1980 data.
city ud  e hn caa_ aie  aona-t1                 qtesnm   body wegt,aeidos-y (entrt>- tam    tort  in sinig. cooruta.-mnfoCt-iag
an.d en  dieeibnnine of pplno.adlowg10pernest for ease  atsd eIettricitt, entered ga  a  ptenoof tata.1 bahoY mete;
bac_nIe I ...el; 196-65. 1970 sed 1977 date.                                                    1960. 1979 end 1990 dene.
Pen cenina euei o  nsnic  (eras  pee day) - Prona.. L a.        sc  f Pee  -epitu              utornn   aelptsr      oa,ae   and feala-eripeneu
net eupply attan  poe day  . s  nVPpi  of Inod is defined u   boe R-aciiynst                                        wtdneon. male, and feal   air  otsa
qatrm-ts f anni  aaeniee  stoiahed by USD0A prnnide for s.ieimpec-ag o  tneo, ale and Femals~P r                                               tpiapt  of ol lgs. re    tiey
aia 6asof,0 SCa  of tinI1 prsteto pee day ask 10 gra   of a_sl  a                      1960. 1970.  n  i980 dat.  Then ore bteed'on ItO's   nritpainrta
I.,e  pr%nsia, of aihi  10 gees  hteesi  be' aI-i protein,  mas  etand-                       nfetsuasttonr   ttspp.sin   n   ogeated
oaks are ton- b t    thom   f 75 gea--  of totalPt.. paai  end  3 gesm  of                     few Csimanse at  fran nationlnrt.
anma  rntion   neeag   n  the arid. prepesed by FA  inLhe Third                          ftri L asknrkit-Snec  popotelos uder 15 aod 65 and oa
acrId rood  urs11961-65, 1.970 an  1977 oan.ttthtno   Iobnn(rs
Pen .nnit.a prtein aunni  fra  atm  aad -I       sfnta... Leapply of fend de-
cited irce anai  od pol... to gnom  per day; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 data.                 INtCOtt  DISTRIBiTION
to1ild lance 1-4) death R-t (pee aheen-d) - On 1 deaths Per Chb.esand in                      Percentag  of Pie    noeboth La cash an  kind) - R-cived in rice-
age gr,,p 1-4 yeses, en childre  in nhie agegrop, to  mst isr pingone                          5peCent_ rChee  Cd perCrr, Pon-,e 10 p....ee, ack poorest 40 psetna
craeOne-ained iros life tables; 1960. 1970 oak 1980 date.                                 odfnebls
9toALtH                                                                                       P0OVERTY TARn'r GROUPS
anbirth; l96d, 1970 and 100 da.                                                                cad ah.adh   inerse    in   osieabetui
Inan tnAlItt  Rate (net in-n d) - hunul deaths ci Laanta under ons feet                    Estiatd Aisolat.     oenyiom  Inl(O  per tanS ttIotab- unc 
.ces otaeSae   Irerteat o   naaia-ani   ra,adrae      a-iiioal   dqaedityu   seta  no-fn   reqireent- ioca
ocr o  peope litel.  rbma  uck  onal  wiebsasorbi19 ceastnateofiorsite
narreu      h- lhco96rsedaefna  ae.  runree  httnoemiue                                     ttecnhetaia  oetyIoc   eelcc`crtoio -I                            reoedmI         
~nsidred  o ceng smm   roeenblef ocea  of th          b Coo .. i  coalas            caine  PornLtionBeto   cin Luts Pnaetc t-oma 1noel
_n not ,i-ne-o dpnbd-1isropn,di--nto   utt-ot                                                     -1he  ey  In,ranchig  eb-  -tir'
iaeulc  eoatee needs. ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ b .....pbl.i._ flb     -ty   l,   Jy i._ydF                                                                     h      
.ncrytcenSa oel-tdencr  -Ci orthaciu0  -ltonsl.. uce.   f0k1rural 
thecolecIonno  oipslh tin  o   It.. ot ntsse.b.od nEs th e ..meret-a                                                      ..lt-(,b.-dt
and ...e-enebyoas--arn    eyicen  on ib  ase of pit pnintea und sie-
Porearuo  ca  Phyucta- Ppelotuo. dinodod by ou-o  ciprciao   phyal                                 E- icoona  .rk hocua1 D-t  eroo
fans quaLifid tree a  adcl   -bn   Ce anteenity lenel.                                                                       Ed_nomi  dotalpet  urd PontosOer
P.uait s   ugiePro  - PopaLaeo  diirde  by nmb-eufypen-ining                                                                               haY 1982
maeidrsL  0aunnne.aeitn   nms  nencn lcdt-"'    -naecd



-19 -                           ANNEXE I
Page 4
ECONO'tC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980
US$ million                Annual rate of growth (%, current prices)
1975-80
GNP at market prices                   1,008.5         95.5              1U.1
GDP at market prices                   1,055.8        100.0              11.0
Grcss domestic inrestments               271.1         25.7               9.4
Gross domestic aavings                   141.0         13.4              17.2
Current account balance         .       -142.0        -13.4
Exports (G + NFS)                        430.7         40.8              20.6
Imports (G + MFS)                        560.8         52.8              15.0
q     OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY Ii; 1980
Value added               Labor force             Value added Der worker
US$ million                 Thousand                    2 US$    7t of average
Agriculture                              238.4         26.1         750          79.0        317.9        33.0
Industry, construction and
public works                           186.8         20.4          24          3.0       7,783.3       809.1
Government                               102.4         11.2          39           4.1      2,625.6       272.9
Commerce and transport                   308.5         33.8          67          7.0       4,604.5       478.6
Other services                            77.8          8.5          70          6.9       1,111.4       120.9
GDP at factor costs                913.9       100.0         950         100.0         962.0
GOVERNI7ENT FI: inCE
CFA billion           % of GDP
1975      1980       1975       1980
Revenue                                2         62.0       24.9       27.8
Tax receipts                        31.       52.0       23.7       23.3
Other                                1.5      10.0        1.2        4.5
Expenditures                           35.0      66.4       26.5       29.8
Current budret                     22.6       54.0    * 17.1       24.2
Investment budget                   9.1         7.4       6.9        3.3
Other                                3.3       5.0        2.5        2.2
Special accounts                        0.3       -          0.2        -
Annex budgets                           0.3        1.0       0.2        0.4
Overall deficits                       -2.7      -5.4       -2.0       -2.4
1emo item:
GDP current prices                  132.3     223.1         -          -
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES               1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      1980         1981
(Billion CFAF-outstanding end period)
Money and quasi money                  15.9       30.5      28.2       41.2      48.0       64.9       69.2       72.5        80.5
Bank credit to oublic sector           -1.9      -2.5        1.4        1.2       1.8        6.2        6.6       4.5          8.1
Bank credit to private sector          13.3      16.3       24.6       32.2      44.2       51.0       57.1      64.7         62.0
(Percentage or index number)
Money and Quasi money as 4S of GDP    17.5       22.6       21.3       27.8      25.1       32.4       32.6       32.5          -
Consumaer price index (1975 =1o00)2     5.1      84.7      100.0      111.6     136.7      137.3      147.6     165.9        197.8
Annual percentage oharge in
Consumer price inaex                 -        12.7       l8.0       11.6      22.4        0.4        7.5      12.4           -
Bank credit to public sector         -       -31.5        -        -14.3      50.0      244.4        6.$     -31.8
Bank credit to private sector        -        22.5       51.3       29.7      37.3       15.4       12.0      13.3
1 As of end April 1981.
Annual average.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS               Pg       
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAY fUfErTCS                    1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980
(US$ million)
Exports (G f iFFS)                        141.2      158.9      195.1     257.5      250.9      430.7
Imports (G + I:FS)                       -242.9    -212.5    -300.4    -519.9    -524.8    -560.8
Resource gap  ('deficit   -)             -101.7      -53.6    -105.3    -262.4    -273.9    -130.1
Interest payments (net)                    -1.9       -3.3       -5-7     -24.3      -29.0      -27.6
Workers' rerittances                        3.3        5.4        5.3       5.3        7.1        7.1
Other factor Dayments (net)               -14.0       -8.4      -13.0     -13.2      -23.8      -20'.0
Net transfers                              18.7       16.7       20.3      22.1       28.6       28.6
Balance on current account                -95.6      -43.2      -98.4   -272.5    -290.9   -142.0
Direct foreign investments                  4.8        6.3        8.1        8.8      10.5        9.5
Net MLT borrowing                          50.5       55.6      113.8     246.o      290.0      195.7
Capital grants                             19.1       15.0       15.0      25.7       26.2       35.7
Other capital (net)                        14.0      -16.7      -32.5        4.o     -31.4     -42.8
Other items, n.e.i.                        15.4      -15.0      -31.7        4.4     -33.3      -76.1
Change in reserves (increase   -)          -8.2       -2.0       25.6     -16.4       29.0       20.0
Net reserves (end year) i/                 38.8       58.1       33.7       50.4      28.8       51.4
Petrol imports as % total merch. imports  -            -          9.0      10.2       11.9       19.2
Petrol exports as ,b total merch. exports  -           -          -        12.0       21.4       23.7
9/ Net foreign assets of the Central Bank
MERCrAXCDISE FXPORTS (average 1975-80, recorded)
uS$ million         da
Phosphate                                                97.1            41.7
Cocoa beans                                              4o.5            17.4
Coffee                                                   23.3            10.0
All other commodities                                    71.9             30.9
Total                                        232.8           100.0
EXTERNAL DE-I, Decemcer 31, 1980
US$ mnillion
Public debt (disbursed) ircl. guaranteed                907.2
Non-guaranteed private debt
Total outstanding and disbursed                         9L72
EXCHANGE RATES (CFAF per USf)
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR l980 #2'                      Year             Period average       End of Deriod
%          1973                 223                   230
Public debt, incl. guaranteed 3/        10.0         1974                  241                  222
Non-guaranteed private debt               -          1975                  214                  224
Total outstanding and disbursed           -          1976                  239-                 248
1977                 246                  235
1978                 226                  209
2/  Debt service as percent of X (G - NFS)            1979                 213                  201
3/  After debt rescheduling                           1980                 211                  226
4/  As of November 1981                               1981                 270                  281 4
IBRD/IDA LEICDING, January 31, 1982 (US$ million)
IBRD 5/  IDA
Outstanding and disbursed               52.9      51.1
Undisbursed                              -        32.9
Outstarnding including undisbursed      52.9      84.0
5/  $53.0 rmillion of vnich $3.5 million CIMAO loan
to ?ogo snd A49.5          lolior  FL!I to CIMAO with the
guarantee of Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo.



- 21 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of August 31, 1982)
Amount - US$ Million
(Less Cancellations)
Bank    IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Four Credits and One Loan Fully Disbursed                3.50      31.60           -
638-TO  1976  Togo Maritime Region Rur. Dev.                       9.40        0.41
693-TO  1977  Togo Third Highway                                  10.00        0.25
810-TO  1978  Togo Feeder Roads                                    5.80        2.05
930-To  1979  Togo Technical Assistance                            2.20        1.48
945-TO  1979  Togo Cocoa/Coffee Development II                    14.00       12.53
1018-TO  1979  Togo First Education                                11.00        8.36
1139-TO  1981  Togo Fourth Highway                                 17.76       17.76
1169-TO  1981  Togo Phosphate Engineering                           5.20        4.81
1190-TO  1982  Togo Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance 2/                                1.95       1.95
1270-To  1982  Togo Second Technical Assistance 2/                  3.36       3.36
Total                                    3.50    112.27        52.96
of which has been repaid                 0.23       0.17
TOTAL now outstanding                    3.27    112.10
Amount Sold                                  0         0
of which has been repaid                    0          0
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA           3.27    112.10
Total Undisbursed                                              52.96
B.   Statement of Bank Loan Guaranteed by Ghana, Ivory Coast and Togo
1295-WAF 1976  CIMAO - CIMAO Regional Clinker           49.5                      0
C.   Statement of IDA Credit for Regional Projects - Benin, Ivory Coast,
Niger, Senegal, Togo, Upper Volta
969-WAF 1980  BOAD Project Preparation Credit                      3.0         2.32
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Not yet effective.



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
E.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 638    Maritime Region Rural Development Project; US$9.5 million;
Credit of June 16, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The closing date of this credit has been postponed from December 31,
1981 to December 31, 1982. Applied research regarding food crops and coconuts,
seed multiplication, monitoring and consultants to study the potential of the
region will continue to be financed until the end of 1982, in an amount of
$240,000. Following a request from the Government, the remaining part of the
credit ($1.7 million) was cancelled in March 1982.
Credit No. 693    Third Highway Project; US$10.0 million; Credit of April 1, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: September 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project provides for the reconstruction of the Aneho-Tabligbo
road (45 km), the construction of the Agou-Notse road (51 km), the provision of
technical assistance for improving transport planning and road maintenance, and
pre-investment studies for a follow-up project. Implementation of the project
has been satisfactory and is now practically complete. The implementation of
the technical assistance component has been slower than expected. Road mainte-
nance, however, has recently begun to suffer from insufficient Government
funding.
Credit No. 810    Feeder Roads Project; US$5.8 million; Credit of June 28, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project consists of a four-year program for the improvement and
maintenance of about 1,000 km of feeder roads, technical assistance to establish
a Feeder Roads Unit in charge of the program, and consultant services to study a
follow-up feeder roads program. The equipment provided to the Feeder Roads Unit
is now fully operational. By the end of November 1981, 440 km of feeder roads
had been improved. However, since November 1981 the program has been slowing
down due to the lack of government counterpart funds. Operations for which
the Ministry of Public Works is responsible have been stopped due to a lack of
credit to buy spare parts and fuel. In order to resolve this problem, the
Development Credit Agreement was amended to increase disbursement percentages
during 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors on the progress
of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems and
actions being taken to remedy them. They should be read with the under-
standing that they do not present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 930    Technical Assistance Project; US$2.2 million; Credit of June 22,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
February 28, 1986.
The project provides for two advisers in the Ministry of Planning for
a three-year period each and for short-term consultants to carry out specific
project-related and macroeconomic studies.  The first adviser is to counsel on
general economic and public finance questions, while the second adviser is to
assist in selecting major new investments and in finding ways of improving
existing large projects.  The assignment of the first adviser has been extended
for a fourth year until August 1983. The second adviser began his assignment
in September 1982.
Credit No. 945    Second Cocoa and Coffee Development Project; US$14.0 million;
Credit of July 23, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project is a continuation of the First Coffee/Cocoa Project. It
provides for the planting and maintenance of a further 7,500 ha of coffee and
4,000 ha of cocoa and services, applied research, associated food crop devel-
opment, and construction of 300 km of feeder roads. Coffee planting is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. The cocoa program has fallen far behind appraisal
targets and there appears to be a general problem of lack of farmers' interest.
These problems will be examined shortly by a specialist in cocoa cultivation.
Another problem facing the project is the continued poor rate of medium-term
credit recovery from participating farmers. New means for facilitating credit
recovery at the marketing stage are being examined.
Credit No. 969    Project Preparation Credit to Banque Ouest Africaine de Develop-
pement; US$3.0 million; Credit of January 25, 1980; Effective-
ness Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to finance feasibility and detailed
engineering studies by external consultants of regional development projects,
which a priori have a high probability of success. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1018    First Education Project; US$11.0 million; Credit of
September 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Construction of training facilities is progressing satisfactorily.
Three of the four project institutions are expected to become operational dur-
ing the last quarter of 1982, and the fourth by May 1983. Project management
continues to perform well, but should focus on the timely implementation of
the educational programs, the institutional budget, and the technical assis-
tance. Despite an initial lag in disbursements, the project is expected to
be completed on schedule.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 1139   Fourth Highway Project; US$20.0 million; Credit of October 28,
1981; Effectiveness Date: September 2, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project provides for a three-year training program for road
maintenance personnel; procurement of road maintenance equipment and spare
parts; pavement of 157 km of road; pre-investment studies for 57 km of road;
and technical assistance to improve transport planning and coordination, as
well as railway operations.
Credit No. 1169   Phosphate Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$5.7 million;                  )
Credit of October 28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: May 21, 1982;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983.
The purpose of this project is to determine the technical and
economic viability of developing a phosphate fertilizer project to manufacture
for export phosphoric acid and phosphate fertilizers from the Dagbati deposits
and from recovered slimes.
Credit No. 1190   Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$2.0
million; Credit of January 21, 1982; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
This project, a joint undertaking involving Togo and Benin, would
aim at helping the two Governments complete preparations for the Nangbeto
hydro-electric project, assist in improving planning in the power sectors of
both countries, provide assistance in institution-building, and strengthen
accounting procedures. The Credit has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 1270    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$3.5 million;
Credit of July 2, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project provides a Senior Economic Adviser for three years to
replace the present adviser, financed under the First Project, and an Invest-
ment Programmer for two years. They will work in the Ministry of Planning
along with the Project Adviser financed under the First Project. In addition,
a planning unit and an applied research coordination unit will be created in
Ministry of Rural Development with the assistance of a planning expert, a
research coordinator, and short-term consultants. Three experts will be
provided to the Ministry of Industry and State Enterprises to introduce
program-contracts and analytical accounting, to define performance criteria,
and to guide analytical studies. Additional consultants will be provided
on a short-term basis for studies connected with the implementation of
economic adjustment and financial stabilization measures. The Investment
Programmer has been hired and will begin his assignment in November, 1982.
The other experts are being recruited. The credit has not yet been declared
effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
TOGO
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
1.  Project initiation:
Initiating Project Brief:                  July 31, 1981
2.  Appraisal mission:                          November-December 1981
3.  Negotiations completed:                     September 1982
4.  Credit effectiveness planned:               March 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
1. Annual review of cotton prices.
2. Annual review of OPAT/SOTOCO bareme.
3. Annual review of technical assistance arrangements.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Project implementation:
a) SOTOCO would procure farm inputs directly (para 25);
b) farmer reimbursements against the quantities of farm inputs funded
by the cofinancers would be retained by SOTOCO and added to its
reserves (para 36);
c) farmers would pay the full costs of cotton sprayer batteries, pesti-
cides used on food crops, and improved food crop seeds, and fertilizer
subsidies would be phased out progressively to zero by not later
than October 1, 1987 (para 25);
d) the price to be paid farmers for seed cotton would be adjusted annually
to take account of movements in the international price of cotton,
the reduction of fertilizer subsidies, general inflation and the
price trend of competing food crops; and this price would be announced
annually at the same time as input prices for the subsequent growing
season (para 26);



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
f) the OPAT-SOTOCO cotton bareme would be modified to include the
full costs incurred by SOTOCO for the production, processing and
marketing of cotton; and the draft bareme would be forwarded annually
to IDA for comment and approval (para 25).
2. Special conditions of effectiveness:
a) Signature of a satisfactory contract or contracts for the first six
of the twelve technical assistance staff positions listed in para 35;
b)  Signing of the FAC Grant and CCCE Credit Agreements (para 1);
c) Announcement of input prices (with the fertilizer subsidy reduced to
40 percent) and the seed cotton price (at a minimum of CFAF 75/kg)
for the 1983/84 growing season (para 26); and
d) Appointment of a General Director of SOTOCO whose qualifications are
satisfactory to the Association (para 35).



IBRD 16296
\ ,MARCH, 1982
U P P E R    V O  L T A                              MAUL   A7NA
11 rKonA _ ) / OK r ' 9 l M A t / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  G E R
\                                                                I-i'  I                  ,
i                 S8O              ,                                    tSENESAL\f    MAt
INE
N.k,di,o J-    -                                      : \    AT  TA lCn?
G...KO~aOih ~   A  V  A   N   N   A                       CI-SR        A L,   -i ;
')   e      ,Ngochomb   /-gKao                                               CQ"i    i; -'
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .(d lh/d '\
<    ,, -   Ce ,'            t  Nhi OC RC Ale leos 'i \
_   -'oor,nrpiy. Ih                                                          ed -l,  h. \  /
_9                  .:3)         \   f  rX,                Sakod)                           1                9>_~~~~~~~N"  .,
'_-1   \,<,  .....    r   pDoengda  ',          ;<nmdbole  ,nieeerre,|
Ca                            I~~~~~~~~-0,                                                        1                                                                10,
G    H    A    N    A                     (ocorS~
I                     K~~~~~~ AR A
.   ~ ~     .         Sotoubguot       *.. 
T4 O                  C     
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT S                                             9_                          _
IN COTTON AREAS                               f-~  ~ ''~' kf-o
5     PaRolei 
.    Soroce head quarters                    t                   \    ~t       T            . 
*     xist1n9 grneer;es                         !                                    <  j   pesso ' 
-8-          ~New ginrieny                                                a c,zeou,        . tXle-manor                
o   PErsOna seoresheps                                        -~                                    -I ;.   
rsew  orcsheps                               *4                                ) 
RAT recearc stetLons                                p     L    A      T1    E A     
C    'E               A~F     A 
RCT research stations                      F           Koumiohou       
S Earing seee multiplicenien sneniens                                             C'\    ( 
Proposed seed multilihcation stations   j   Rodeo                                                1.apAe5
II   Eristreg Centre. Regror Seed Fare                        t / ir        *    aAriokreK e        /
iProposed Norsd Seed Fermee                   KpereRhro   )Amleod            VAtred       + p
Proposed l'atinonl Seed Center                \         j( -s
Nntse Riirel Develaprmert Prejecti                 J{_.   lO:                                   -
ceeg Ce ieee                                .~'Y~    O~ 
INertr Secenne                                   '  t       's                         _ - i
-7'=                Or, Kanerase9/r   .
v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Perth  Central                                                           PeRO.rnd
Flaine de M6 g\    _4Gg
Maoms reeds                                   (.       ,i      ,               J Koueon      voou
Re, Raways                                          X hiA~R                      T\I9\E
Roar, ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ V
3     Regional headquarters                          j     \4no             Tsnoevl  8 \        Vg          gg
- - Regieral arrlnLstrative boundaries                             )                              .     /            -
--    eterrerlonaI bo,ndarres                                         \     '      '            ;
0          20      00      00        0 RB                                                                  o
C - D VLOP E TP
INCTTNARA



