OFFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1302 TO
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Rural Development Project in Cotton Areas)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
Dated                             , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1302 TO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   L_> U       A              , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON (hereinafter called
SOTOCO).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Togo (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to. twenty one million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 21,700,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that SOTOCO agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS SOTOCO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SOTOCO shall carry out Parts A through E
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, agri-
cultural and rural development practices.
(b) In order to assist SOTOCO in carrying out Parts A
through E of the Project, SOTOCO shall, not later than May 31,


﻿-2-
1983, enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Association
with the following:
(i) PROPTA, CNCA and UPROMA for carrying out Part B
(ii) of the Project;
(ii) IRCT and IRAT for carrying out Part B (iii) of the
Project;
(iii) DHE for carrying out Part D of the Project; and
(iv) MRW for carrying out Part E of the Project.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SOTOCO in carrying out
Parts A through E of the Project, SOTOCO shall employ:
(i) a General Director, a Deputy General Director
and a Director of the Marketing Department whose
qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association; and
(ii) specialists for the positions of:
(1) Director, Agricultural Production Department;
(2) Director, Financial and Administration De-
partment;
(3) Director, Industrial Department;
(4) Head, Engineering Division;
(5) Head, Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit;
(6)  Chief, Extension Services;
(7) Chief, Farmer Groups and Credit Services;
(8) a Cost Accountant with computer experience
for the Financial and Administration Depart-
ment;
(9) an Agronomist for seed production;


﻿-3-
(10)  two Workshop Managers for Industrial Depart-
ment Garages; and
(11) a short-term Consultant in animal traction,
all whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consul-
tants shall be selected, in accordance with principles satis-
factory to the Association, on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) SOTOCO shall employ experienced and qualified Togolese
staff to work as counterparts to and closely with the specialists
referred to in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section.
(c) The terms of reference of said specialists and counter-
parts shall be reviewed annually by SOTOCO and the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SOTOCO undertakes to insure or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and, for such insurance, any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by SOTOCO to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) SOTOCO shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Bor-
rower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SOTOCO shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction work and procurement
schedules for Parts A through E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.


﻿-4-
(b) SOTOCO shall:
(i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of Parts A through E of
the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A through E of the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents;
(iii)  furnish to the Association, not later than two
months after the end of each quarter, quarterly
reports and, by June 30 of each year, annual
reports containing all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A through E of the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds;
and
(iv) not later than     four months from    the date of
completion of the field work, furnish to the
Association for its review and comment, a report
on each survey and study undertaken by .the Project
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established pur-
suant to Part C of the Project.
(c) Upon the award by SOTOCO of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but, in any
event, not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SOTOCO and
the Association, SOTOCO shall prepare and furnish to the Asso-
ciation a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial


﻿-5-
operation of Parts A through E of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
SOTOCO and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(e) SOTOCO shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SOTOCO and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. SOTOCO shall, under the arrangements with DHE
referred to in Section 3.01 (g) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, annually draw up a list of villages in which the tubewells
would be constructed and, after comment by DHE, furnish such list
to the Association, for its review and comment, not later than
three months before the implementation of each tubewell program.
Section 2.07. (a) SOTOCO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) SOTOCO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by SOTOCO of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SOTOCO
Section 3.01. SOTOCO shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and rural development practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
-Section 3.02. SOTOCO shall, at all times, operate and main-
tain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and,
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, agricultural and rural development practices.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. SOTOCO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SOTOCO shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SOTOCO shall:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with   appropriate  auditing  principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case, not later than four months after the end of
each such year:
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to. the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of
SOTOCO and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SOTOCO thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date ten years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SOTOCO of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For Societ6 Togolaise du Coton
SOTOCO
B. P. 219
Atakpame
Republic of Togo
Cable address:                       Telex:
SOTOCO                             5286
Atakpame
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SOTOCO, may be taken or executed by its
General Director or such other person or persons as SOTOCO shall
designate in writing, and SOTOCO shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively shall be one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives   thereunto  duly  authorized, have    caused  this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE TOGOLAISE DU COTON
By/uthre R/                           e p    t a
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits", published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, SOTOCO shall prepare and forward
to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. SOTOCO shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding:
(i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes levied in con-
nection with the importation or sales and similar
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid of the goods, shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and


﻿- 10 -
(iii) the cost of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of the goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods, in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Togo may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference, and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Togo,
if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Togo and the Association, that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Togo equal to at least twenty per cent
(20%) of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and, if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
Group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 11 -
goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to:
(a)  the  amount   of   customs  duties   and  other   import
taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such Group C bid;
(b) fifteen per cent (15%) of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed fifteen per
cent (15%) of such price. If the Group A bid in such comparison
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
If not, the bid from Group C, which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 3 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, SOTOCO may grant a margin of preference of seven and
one-half per cent (7-1/2%) to domestic contractors in accordance
with and subject to the following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule, and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information including details
of ownership as shall be required to determine whether, according
to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted by
the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies
for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall clearly
indicate the preference and the method that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such
preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by SOTOCO,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(a) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(b) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 12 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to seven and one-half per cent (7-1/2%) of the bid amount
shall be added to bids received under group (b) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Contracts for the construction of buildings whose cost
is estimated not to exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
two million two hundred thousand dollars ($2,200,000), may be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally,
in   accordance  with   local  procedures   satisfactory  to   the
Association.
(b) Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) may be pro-
cured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, in
accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association,
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of the contracts so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of eight hundred
thousand dollars ($800,000).
(c) Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) may be procured on
the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers represented
in TOGO and able to provide adequate guarantee of service and
spare parts, provided, however, that the aggregate cost of the
contracts so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of four
hundred thousand dollars ($400,000).
.E.  Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for works and for the purchase
of goods 9stimated to cost the equivalent of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000) or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SOTOCO shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 13 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SOTOCO
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform SOTOCO and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.1 With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SOTOCO shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SOTOCO and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than ten per cent (10%) of the original price, SOTOCO shall
inform the Association of the proposed mcdification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion, if it determines that the proposal would be inconsistent
with the provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform
SOTOCO and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    /       day of
198 d.
FOR SECRETARY


