Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17103-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 43.7 MILLION
TO
INDIA
FOR A
UTTAR PRADESH SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
October 27, 1997
Education Sector
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =          Rupee
US$1.00          =          Rs. 36.42
US$0.0274        =          Rs. 1.00
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APPEP                 Andhra Pradesh Primary Education Project
AWPB                  Annual Work Plan and Budget
BAS                   Baseline Assessment Study
BRC                   Block Resource Center
CAS                   Country Assessment Study
CRC                   Cluster Resource Center
DCA                   Development Credit Agreement
DFID                  Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
DIET                  District Institute of Education and Tranimg
DOE                   Department of Education
DPEP                  District Primary Education Program
DPO                   District Project Office
EC                    European Commission
ECE                   Early Childhood Education
EFAPB                 Uttar Pradesh Education for All Project Board
EMIS                  Educational Management Information System
ESW                   Economic and Sector Work
GER                   Gross Enrollment Rate
GC                    General Council
GOI                   Govermnent of India
GOUP                  Government of Uttar Pradesh
GSDP                  Gross State Domestic Product
ICDS                  Integrated Child Development Scheme
MTR                   Mid-Term Review
NCERT                 National Council of Educational Research and Training
NGO                   Non-government Organization
PIP                   Project Implementation Plan
PMIS                  Project Management Information System
SC                    Scheduled Caste
SCERT                 State Council of Educational Research and Training
SIDA                  Swedish International Development Agency
SIEMAT                State Institute of Educational Management and Training
SPO                   State Project Office
ST                    Scheduled Tribe
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Education Fund
UPBEP                 Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project
VEC                   Village Education Committee
Vice President              Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director            Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager              Ralph W. Harbison
Task Manager                N.K. Jangira



INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH SECOND BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
Project Financing Data .......................................I
Block 1: Project Description .......................................2
1.  Project development objectives .......................................2
2.  Project components .......................................2
3.  Benefits and target population .......................................2
4.  Institutional and implementation arrangements .......................................3
Block 2: Project Rationale .......................................4
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project                        .4
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy                         .5
7.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices .
8.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection             .6
9.   Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    .     6
10.  Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                 .7
11. Indications of borrower commitmnent and ownership                     .8
12. Value added of Bank support                                .8
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments .............................8
13. Economic Assessment                                     .8
14. Financial Assessment                                    .9
15. Technical Assessment                                    .9
16. Institutional Assessment                                 .9
17. Social Assessment                                     .9
18. Environmental Assessment .10
19. Participatory Approach .10
20. Sustainability .10
21. Critical Risks                                     .1
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .12
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions .............................                                   12
23.  Effectiveness Conditions .............................                                 12
24. Other .............................                                                      12
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies .............................                            13
Annexes
I   Project Design Summary
2    Detailed Project Description
2A   Learning Achievement of Class 5 Students
2B   Summary of the Mid-Term Review
3    Estimated Project Costs in US$ Millions
4    Financial and Economic Analysis
5    Financial Summary
6    Procurement Arrangements
7    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
8    Documents in the Project File
9    Statement of Loans and Credits
10   India at a Glance



I
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIoNAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
South Asia Region
Project Appraisal Document
India
Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Education Project
Date:                 October 27, 1997                                                                         []  Draft           [x]  Final
Task Manager: N K Jangira                                                                                    Country Manager: Edwin R. Lim
Project ID:           1N-PE-50638    Sector: Education                                                       POC: Human Resources
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Credit                                        PTI:           [x]  Yes                [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                                  I[]  I Loan         I [x ] I Credit          []       Guarantee    [I    I Other
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$59.4 million/SDR 43.7 million
.............................................................................................................. ........ ........................................ ........... ................................................................. .......................................... .. .........................
Proposed Terms:                                            []    Multicurrency                [ ]   Single currency
Grace period (years):  10 years                    [       Standard Variable    [ ]   Fixed                          []       LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment fee: 0.50%
Service charge: 0.75%
T i i i i'..g     i   o  g     ..m).............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Financing Plan (US$ m)
Source                               Local                    Foreign                   Taxes                    Tal
IDA                                                               56.8                        2.6                     0.0                     59.4
GOUP                                                               14.6                      0.0                      1.7                      16.3
TOTAL                                                             71.4                        2.6                     1.7                     75.7
Borrower:             Government of India (GOI), acting by its President
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies): Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
Estimated Disbursements
IDA BY                                                             Y98                   FY9                   FY2000                     FY2001
Annual                                                             3.0                   21.5                    28.8                         6.2
Cumulative                                                         3.0                    24.5                   53.2                        59.4
Expected effectiveness date:  April 1998                                                                  Closing date: September 30, 2000



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                            Page 2
Country: India                                                                                         Project Title: UPBEP 11
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex 1 for key performance indicators): The UP Basic Education Project
(UPBEP-Cr. 2509-lN) was approved in FY93 and will close September 30, 2000. It was designed to expand access, improve student
learning and enhance the GOUP's capacity to manage elementary education in 10 (increased to 12 through bifurcation) districts in UP
to produce more and better educated primary and upper primary school graduates. Project interventions to date have resulted in much
higher than anticipated growth in enrollments, resulting in unacceptably large classes and an acute shortage of classrooms. GOUP has
requested IDA assistance to deal with this surge in enrollments through a reallocation of presently unallocated resources in Up BEP I
(Cr. 2509-IN) and through an additional IDA credit, UP BEP II. The Credit responds to this request and would assist the Government
of UP to:
*   Establish the capacity to enroll all 6-10 year old children.
*   Establish the capacity to enroll 75 percent of 11-13 year old children.
*   hnprove student learning achievement and completion rates.
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown): The project will have
two major components:
(a) expanding access by opening about 600 primary and 300 upper primary schools, and constructing about 11,000 additional
classrooms in the existing institutions; and
(b) improving quality and retention, through the appointment of about 13,000 additional teachers; providing learning materials,
including development of new materials for new schools; in-service training to new teachers; and establishing a school improvement
fund.
Component                                                                                     Cost                Percent of
including Contingencies         Total
(US$M)
Expanding access
Classroom Construction                                                                   23.8                    31.5
Improving Quality and Retention
Provision of Teaching Learning Materials                                                  0.6                     0.8
Teacher Grants                                                                            2.8                     3.7
School Improvement Fund                                                                   0.2                    0.3
In-service Training                                                                       1.8                     2.4
Materials Development and Consultancies                                                   3.7                    4.9
Incremental Teacher Salaries                                                             42.7                    56.5
Total                                                                                         75.7                    100
In addition to the inputs covered in the above table, construction of about 1250 new schools, 2150 additional classrooms and
appointment of 2450 additional teachers are expected to be funded from presently unallocated funds in Cr. 2509-lN. The request to
revise the project description and the schedule of disbursements has been received and the DCA for UPBEP I has been amended.
Staff of existing District Institutes for Education and Training (DIETs) and of Block and Cluster Resource Centers (BRCs and CRCs)
established by UPBEP I would also provide training and school-based support to the new schools and the additional teachers.
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3. Benefits and target population: Investments in primary education have been found to have significant economic and social
benefits, such as increased productivity and income, lower fertility, and better health. For India these have been documented in the
recent sector work, Primary Education in India. A summary of anticipated economic benefits is included in Annex 4.
More specifically, the project is expected to:
*   provide access to about 600,000 additional children (including girls and SC children) in the age group 6-10 years and
200,000 children in the age group 11-13, raising the gross enrollment ratio (including enrollments in private schools) in
project districts from 88 percent to 100 percent in primary education and from 43 percent to 75 percent in upper primary
education by the year 2000.
*   improve the quality of instruction, learning achievement and efficiency of student flows by reducing the pupil-teacher
ratio to 45: 1; providing in-service teacher training to all teachers every year with school-based professional support, and
making available improved teaching and learning materials in the classroom.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 3
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: UPBEP 11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:.
Implementation period:    April 1998 to September 30, 2000
Executing agencies:       An autonomous UP Education for All Project Board (EFAPB) located in Lucknow
Project coordination:      DPEP Bureau of the Department of Education (DOE) at the Ministry of Human Resource
Development, GOI
Project oversight:        DPEP Bureau, GOI
Project Implementation: Implementation coordination at the national level will continue to be managed by the DPEP Bureau. At
the state level, the project would be implemented by the well-established and experienced UP Education for All Project Board
(EFAPB). During negotiations, GOI confrrmed that it shall make available the proceeds of the Credit to GOUP, which in turn, will
make it available with GOUP contribution to EFAPB. The State Project Office (SPO), with additional support under DPEP II (Cr.
2876-IN) will have two units, one for UPBEP I and II and the other for implementing DPEP II. GOUP will continue to maintain the
existing unit within EFAPB separately to implement UPBEP I and II. The SPO managed to complete all construction planned under
Up BEP I during the first three years of the project. It has ensured the delivery of instructional materials to all schools and organized
annual training courses for about 48.000 teachers. Two key state level resource institutions already involved in assisting UPBEP I and
DPEP II would also support the project - (a) the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) would provide
leadership in the development of new curriculum, textbook and other instructional materials; and (b) the State Institute of Educational
Management and Training ( SIEMAT) would provide training in educational planning and management. Plans to strengthen these
institutions have been agreed and will be implemented with the support of DPEP II. In addition, GOUP will also establish a State
Resource Group to revise curriculum, develop improved learning teaching materials, and improve in-service training of teachers.
At the district and sub-district level, DIETs, BRCs and CRCs provide staff inputs in the teacher training programs and school-based
support. The capacity to provide annual in-service training to all 48,000 teachers and school-based support in project districts is in
place. All teachers in the project districts have already participated in two six-day in-service training programs. A third round is
being implemented. Village Education Committees (VECs) have been established and are actively involved in micro-planning
(school mapping and household surveys), mobilization of community support, school improvement and community school
construction. More than 10,000 classrooms have been constructed in UPBEP I through community efforts supported by the project
School and classroom designs are available and new recruitment procedures have already been put in place under UPBEP I to
expedite implementation of UPBEP II.
To meet the development objectives of increased access and retention and improved learning achievement, the project will ensure
minimum conditions for effective functioning of the school and improved teaching in the classroom. The GOUP initiative of posting
teachers, which has already begun to move towards the current GOUP established student/teacher norm, will continue to progress
towards reducing disparity between student-teacher ratios in rural and urban areas. GOUP would report progress annually on the
status of teacher deployment and discuss it with the joint supervision mission. EFAPB will also establish an attendance reporting
mechanism through VECs and conduct sample classroom observation studies, documenting changes in classroom practices every year
during the remaining period of UPBEP I and II implementation to share with IDA during bi-annual supervision missions.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: Monitoring and evaluation arrangements already defined and established in the first UP
Basic Education Project will be followed in this project. These include: PMIS and EMIS reports; third-party evaluation of civil
works; annual review of district and state AWPBs by the DPEP Bureau; bi-annual joint supervision missions by IDA and GOI; and
district-based multipurpose surveys, including learning achievement of class 5 students, in the fmal year of the project, and other
project related research and studies. These arrangements will be further strengthened with support of UPBEP. In addition, annual
classroom observation studies will document the introduction and impact of improved teaching methods in schools in project districts.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: In UPBEP I, EFAPB has prepared a detailed manual to guide staff at the
state, district and sub-district levels and provided training to them in using proper accounting procedures. Funds for school
construction and school improvement grants are deposited in a bank account operated jointly by the head teacher and VEC
chairperson. In the case of school construction through community participation, a cash book detailing expenditures is maintained
along with vouchers at the site. The computerized Project Management Information System (PMIS) at the state and district levels is
maintained to monitor the release of funds, expenditures and achievement of physical targets. The reporting format includes
quarterly, annual, and cumulative physical targets and expenditures. As the quarterly reports are generated, EFAPB uses the feedback
to improve implementation to better achieve the targets set in AWPBs.
Apart from annual audits, periodic checks and inspection of accounts and documents, including verification of expenditures are
carried out under UPBEP I. An independent chartered accountant has been engaged to audit state and district level accounts in



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 4
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: UPBEP ll
addition to a regular Comptroller General and Auditor General's audit. Audit reports up to 1995-96 have already been submitted to
the Bank. The 1996-97 audit by the chartered accountant is about to be completed and an Auditor General's audit of 1996-97 is in
progress.
GOUP will use this accounting, auditing and reporting procedure in implementing UPBEP II as well. A separate account will be
maintained for UPBEP II. EFAPB will: (i) have its accounts audited by independent chartered accountants acceptable to the
Association in accordance with its respective Memoranda of Association as in UPBEP I; (ii) ascertain that the audit of the EFAPB
includes a separate opinion on SOEs; and (iii) make appropriate arrangements for auditing the utilization of funds provided by
EFAPB to other institutions, including their SOEs. In addition, EFAPB accounts will be audited annually by the Accountant General
of Uttar Pradesh. The audit of the Special Account will be in accordance with the guidelines of the Association. EFAPB would
submit audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of the Indian fiscal year. Audit reports from the independent chartered
accountant will also meet this requirement.
Another source of monitoring project implementation would be provided by a semi-annual Project Disbursement and Financial
Management Reporting System. This reporting system comprises semi-annual reports on: (i) sources of project funding; and (ii)
applications of funding category of expenditure and by project component. This information will provide the variance between the
actual budget allocations and applications of project funding twice a year. During negotiations, GOI agreed to explore the possibility
of adapting the software of the existing UPBEP PMIS and EMIS to prepare the above mentioned semi-annual reports to be provided
to IDA every six months during the Joint Supervision Missions.
The accounting procedures proposed for the project are similar to the ones set for UPBEP, DPEP I and II which have proven to be
satisfactory to IDA. Consolidated reports for these ongoing Credits have been provided to IDA in a timely fashion.
Procurement: Procurement procedures specified in Annex 6 (Tables 6A and 6B) and the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations will be
followed.
Disbursements: The IDA Credit for UPBEP II will be disbursed over three years generally consistent with the disbursement profile,
and in accordance with the allocations and expenditure shown in Annex 6 (Table 6C). Teacher and school grants will be disbursed
against Statement of Expenditures according to the procedures agreed to by GOI and IDA in DPEP I and DPEP II. The Association
may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for: (a) grants, local training
and workshops and incremental teacher salaries; (b) consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in the
case of firms and $50,000 equivalent in the case of individuals; and (c) contracts for goods and works not exceeding $300,000
equivalent each, under such conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
In order to accelerate disbursement of IDA's share of expenditures to be pre-fmanced by GOUP, and to allow for direct payment of
other eligible local and foreign expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India to the amount of
US$7.5 million equivalent to cover four months of expected requirements for IDA-financed items. All expenses except the
retroactive financing of US$5.0 million equivalent will be financed through the Special Account of US$7.5 million. GOI would
release an advance (not drawn from IDA Credit item as additional Central Assistance) to GOUP. GOUP would place this together
with its own contribution in the account of EFAPB.
Retroactive financing in the amount of US$5.0 million equivalent would cover eligible expenditures for implementing appraised
activities after July 1, 1997. Retroactive financing would support (a) start-up activities for civil works; (b) in-service teacher training;
(c) incremental teacher salaries; and (d) teacher and school improvement grants.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:    1995 CAS updated in 1996
Poverty alleviation:
The project is consistent with the updated version of the CAS paper discussed by the Board on September 5, 1996. Human resource
development, particularly education, is a key element in the overall strategy. Protecting and extending the gains of UPBEP I by
responding to the surge in enrollments (higher for girls and SC children) and creating an environment to enhance the quality of
education by recruiting additional teachers, ensuring their recurrent training, providing instructional materials and constructing
additional classrooms, will contribute to these overall CAS objectives. Targeting of girls and socially disadvantaged SC children is
expected to benefit the poorest in UP, which have a per capita income of $193 against the national average of $363.
The unexpected surge in enrollments and improved retention under UPBEP I increased the risk that the project quality improvement



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 5
Country: India                                                                               Project Title: UPBEP II
objectives may not be attained. These objectives are unlikely to be achieved in crowded and shelterless classes with a student-teacher
ratio of often more than 50:1. UPBEP II is essential for establishing a learning environment where effective teaching methods can be
applied.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy: UP is educationally one of the most backward states in India. Key issues in
UP are:
*  Enrollments in primary education are still low. The gross enrollment ratio in 1996 was 92 percent with wide inter-district
variations (national average 96 percent). Girls comprise only 37 percent of enrollments (national average 43 percent).
Attendance of many students is irregular; about one-third of enrolled students do not attend classes regularly.
*  The drop out rate is high and the completion rate remains low. In 1990, about 38 percent of the boys and 34 percent of the
girls who enrolled in class I in 1985 did not complete grade five.
*  Learning achievement is low: More than 50 percent of students in the fmal year of the primary stage do not achieve the
minimum levels of learning envisaged in the curriculum.
*  The capacity of SCERT, DIETs, BRCs and CRCs to provide leadership and support for improved teaching practices
remains weak.
*  Resources are inadequate to meet the surging demand for primary education, despite state commitment to increase
allocations to basic education.
UPBEP I was designed to help GOUP address these issues in 10 (increased through bifurcation to 12) project districts. Considerable
progress has been made in the first three years of the project. After some start-up delays, project inputs were delivered as planned.
More than 10,000 classrooms have been constructed. BRCs have been established for each block. CRCs have been established for
every 10-15 schools to provide school-based professional support. VECs have been established. Annual in-service training programs
for all teachers are being implemented. New materials are being introduced. Textbooks have been revised but need further
significant improvement.
Enrollments increased by 32 percent from about 2.7 million in 1991/92 to 3.5 million in 1996/97, raising the Gross Enrollment Ratio
(GER) in project districts from 75 percent to 88 percent through community mobilization and improvement of educational facilities in
schools. During the same period upper primary school enrollments increased by 40 percent. Available data also show significant
enrollment increases for girls (46.6% vs. 23.5% for boys). Enrollments in non-project districts also increased (22%) but markedly less
than in the project districts (31%), indicating the positive effect of the project interventions on enrollments.
Improvement in facilities in schools (drinking water and toilets, teaching aids, supplementary reading materials, school libraries,
school building maintenance funds, recurrent in-service teacher training and school-based professional support through BRCs and
CRCs to improve student learning achievement) are perceived by the communities as efforts towards improving the quality of primary
education. As a result, enrollments increased rapidly and classroom and teacher shortages have become especially acute in the project
districts. In 1996/97 the student- teacher ratio in project districts increased to 50:1. Assuming all existing vacancies are filled, an
estimated 16,000 classrooms and teachers will be required to provide a place in school in the accepted class size of 45 for all 6-10
year olds and 75 percent of 11-14 year olds by the year 2000.
GOI is ready to assist GOUP respond to the need for additional classrooms and teachers, in-service training of new teachers and
develop learning materials in the project districts implementing UPBEP I, through increased allocations under UPBEP II. GOI has
also extended support to GOUP to address these issues through the DPEP II Credit, which will cover 15 districts.
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices: While impressive progress has been made in UPBEP I to
increase primary education participation rates, the resulting overcrowding in schools with inadequate facilities is likely to discourage
parents from enrolling children (mostly girls and SCs) who still remain out of school. In addition, children in several remote areas
still do not have schools available within walking distance. Progress toward quality improvement objectives has been slow. With the
capacity to deliver regular quality improvement inputs to schools now frmly established, the need to shift attention to improvement in
the content of textbooks, supplementary reading materials and in-service training and effective application of improved teaching
practices in the classroom has become apparent. Important preconditions for lasting improvement in teaching practice are: (i)
reducing the student-teacher ratio; and (ii) further strengthening the capacity of resource institutions to maintain progress and provide
support to teachers. The project would address these issues as follows:
Increasing participation, particularly of girls and SCs: This issue is addressed by opening new schools in unserved areas (based on
microplanning and school mapping), constructing additional classrooms, appointing additional teachers to meet the requirement of
additional enrollment, filling existing teacher positions, rationalizing teacher deployment, and increasing the number of female



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 6
Country: India                                                                            Project Title: UPBEP II
teachers. The project will be complemented by the interventions relating to alternative schooling, early childhood education and
community mobilization activities supported under UPBEP I.
Improving learning achievement and completion rates: This issue is expected to be addressed by reducing the student-teacher ratio
from 50:1 to 45:1, providing one week of in-service training every year to all new and already serving teachers, providing learning
materials to new schools, and establishing a school improvement fund. These are in addition to interventions from UPBEP I (support
from BRCs and CRCs, development of improved textbooks and supplementary materials, development of materials and school
management methodology on multigrade teaching and training teachers to use them, and periodic monitoring of changes in classroom
practice and student learnig achievement).
Improving institutional capacity, particularly of SCERT, SIEAMT, DIETs, BRCs and CRCs, by filling the vacant positions and
training the staff in new pedagogical skills and in managing the change process to improve classroom practice in order to enhance
student learning achievement. This component is being funded by UPBEP I and will also benefit the implementation quality of
UPBEP II. DPOs will be strengthened by appointing a training specialist to coordinate and monitor change in classroom practice.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: Increased cost sharing by the parents and the community was
discussed with GOUP. At this stage the scope for increasing cost sharing by the community over and above the usual donation of
land and labor for school construction and improvement of physical facilities was not considered feasible by GOUP, especially as the
potential beneficiaries will include a disproportionate number of the poorer segments of the population.
The possibility of increased allocations from other classroom construction schemes of the central or state government was also
considered. GOUP has considered allocating Rs. 107 million (about US$3 million) as an enhanced state contribution towards
constructing additional schools from the employment assurance schemes. This is the only fund immediately available and is
inadequate for the magnitude of educational demand that has been generated.
The alternative of encouraging private schools was also discussed. GOUP considers this to be a very slow process which cannot be
responsive to the immediate need, especially for the poorest population. Already, about 25 percent of children are receiving education
in private schools. The GOUP projected that private school enrollments will only be able to increase at the same rate as govermnent
schools in the short term, thus maintaining its current proportion of 25 percent of total enrollment. Efforts to encourage private
provision will continue as a long-term measure, although sufficient private investmnent in rural and remote areas where the major
resource input is required is difficult to mobilize.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and planned).
Projects                                            Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed Projects only)
Sector issues: The primary education issues mentioned under item 7 above  IP          DO
are being addressed in 13 Indian states in the following Bank-
and non-Bank-financed projects.
Ongoing Bank-financed related projects
Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (Cr. 2509-1N)                       S           HS
DPEP I (Cr. 2661-IN)                                                      S             S
DPEP II cofmanced by the Government of the Netherlands (Cr. 2876-IN)      S             S
Bank-fnanced projects in pipeline
Bank-fmanced projects under preparation
DPEP III in Bihar (IN-PA-38021)
DPEP in Andhra Pradesh - Economic Restructuring Project
Ongoing projects financed by other agencies
Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal Projects financed by DFID
Bihar Education Project financed by UNICEF
Lok Jumbish Project in Rajasthan financed by SIDA
Women empowerment projects (Manila Samakhya) financed by
the Government of the Netherlands
DPEP I (Madhya Pradesh) financed by the European Community
DPEP II (Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal) financed by DFID



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 7
Country: India                                                                            Project Title: UPBEP II
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: A mid-term review of UPBEP I was conducted in December 1996
(summary Annex 2b). The principalfindings were: (i) enrollment growth far exceeded appraisal estimates (31 percent in primary
schools for the age group 6-10 years with girls at higher increases of 46 percent, and 40 percent in the age group 11-13 with girls at
higher increases of 45 percent); (ii) capacity to provide a week long in-service training to about 48,000 teachers each year through
school-based support is in place; (iii) supplementary materials that support activity-based learning have been provided to schools and
textbooks based on new pedagogy for grades I to III would be introduced in 1997-98.
The first and second baseline studies covering classroom activities as reported by class 5 students, and student learning achievement
in project districts and one control district provided mixed findings. In all project districts, over 95 percent of teachers have received
in-service training (as compared to 25-60 percent in the first study), while 60-90 percent of teachers have been making and using
teaching aids. The percentage of class 5 students reporting the opportiunity to read aloud increased from 1.3 to 27 percentage points in
5 out of the seven districts, receiving dictation increased by 2-25 percentage points in 6 out of 7 districts, "giving assignments in
mathematics" increased from 3-30 percentage points in 6 out of 7 districts, "assignment of home work" increased from 6-18
percentage points and correction of homework of students by the teacher increased from 46-89 percentage points. In half of the
districts, the class 5 student mean achievement has shown improvement in language and mathematics, while in three districts the
difference is marginally negative. In comparison with the control district, all project districts have a higher mean achievement in
mathematics, and 8 project districts show a higher mean achievement in language (Table in Annex 2a). The progress in quality
improvement objectives is slow, since inputs such as in-service training were not introduced until late 1994, and revised textbooks are
to be provided during the 1997-98 year. The experience is also corroborated from the Andhra Pradesh Primary Education Project
(APPEP) funded by DFID where change in classroom practice could be observed only from the fourth year onward and improvement
in learning achievement became apparent only in the fifth year.
The principal challenge for the second phase of the project is to (i) intensify the focus on changing classroom practice to improve
student learning through school-based training and support; (ii) improve learning conditions, including full use of instructional time,
with support from the VECs that have been activated in the last two years; and (iii) address, as a matter of urgency, the problems
caused by the surge in enrollment by appointing additional teachers and creating additional space for children, without which the
quality goal of the project would be adversely affected.
Specific lessons learnt from UPBEP I and other primary education projects in India (including those supported by other donor
agencies), are:
*  Building community support for education is a central element of successful implementation of school development
programs. Community participation and activation of Village Education Committees have revealed a strong pent-up
demand for basic education.
*  Community construction is a cost effective way to implement a large-scale school building program.
*  BRCs and CRCs can serve as an effective mechanism to provide recurrent in-service teacher training and school-based
professional support to teachers.
*  Quality improvement, particularly changing classroom practice, and strengthening the capacity for quality improvement in
existing institutions are long-term processes for which results are not inmmediately observable (also supported by DFID-
funded Andhra Pradesh Education Project, where limited classroom change became visible the fourth year onward).
*  Strengthening the capacity for quality improvement in existing institutions is a long process.
*  Microplanning is necessary to assess the real need for establishing new schools and determining the requirements of
additional classrooms and teachers as well as the rational deployment of teachers.
These lessons have been used in designing the project as well as the investment in another 15 districts supported by DPEP II.
Strengthening the implementation of the quality improvement components will also be the central theme of the supervision of UPBEP
in FY98.
The appraisal mission also reviewed the cost-effectiveness of the classroom construction program implemented under UPBEP I. The
mission found that the cost of the classrooms was in line with, or even below, the cost of similar buildings supported by DPEP in
other states. The quality of construction has improved through intensified supervision. However, the design of the buildings remains
traditional and adaptation to local conditions and new pedagogical demands could be improved. To this end a classroom construction
innovation fund of Rs. 500,000 has been established with support from DPEP II to develop and test innovative designs and
construction methods that address these issues.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 8
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: UPBEP II
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
*  GOI and GOUP commitment to accelerate the pace of providing basic education is visible in the revised policy
formulations of 1992 and the resolve to raise education spending from the current 3.7 percent to 6 percent by the turn of
the century.
*  GOUP implementation support for UPBEP I has clearly shown its commitment to the project objectives. GOUP has not
only regularly provided its share of expenditure, but also prefinanced the GOI share when necessary, filled required
vacancies, and successfully implemented the project. Furthermore, UPBEP II is IDA's response to GOUP's request to
assist in addressing needs arising from the success of project implementation.
*  GOUP has increased its allocation to general education (from Rs. 21440 million in 1991-92 to Rs. 33360 million in 1995-
96 showing an increase of 64.2 percent) and within the education sector to elementary education (from Rs. 11980 million
in 1991-92 to Rs. 18940 million showing an increase of 63.2 percent in 1995-96). The share of the elementary education
in the general education budget in 1995- 96 was 56.8 percent.
* Despite political instability in the state, project staff stability has been ensured.
Following the recommendations of the MTR, GOUP formulated an investment proposal and developed a PIP. The draft PIP was
reviewed by IDA on June 27, 1997 and the revised PIP has been received.
12. Value added of Bank support: The Bank is one of the few donor agencies with the capacity to provide key technical advice and
fnancial support necessary to assist in the implementation of education programs on a large scale. IDA has been instrumental in
mobilizing fmancial and technical support from other donors into the sector. IDA has also provided a lead role in designing and
operationalizing joint supervision mechanisms whereby a group of educational and management professionals nominated by the
donors supporting DPEP, UPBEP and GOI review implementation progress twice a year (in March and October). IDA provides
education specialists and managers from participating DPEP States and GOI with much appreciated exposure to educational
innovations of other developing countries which are relevant to the Indian context. Finally, IDA plays a key role in providing
continued technical and financial support which are essential to ensure that the potential benefits of the past educational investments
come to fruition.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment (see Annex 4):
Recent ESW has documented comprehensive evidence of the strong effects of primary education on economic and social development
in India. Rate of return studies, though dated, all describe positive returns to primary schooling and higher returns than those to other
levels. A production function study disaggregating the causes of past rates of economic growth pointed to primary schooling as being
particularly important. Several empirical studies of the effects of schooling on farmer productivity demonstrate that the returns are
greatest when schooling occurs in the context of broad economic change and that the impact is also felt by the non-schooled. A recent
Bank study of changes over time in the levels of poverty across Indian states has shown the central importance of the coverage of
primary schooling. The strong impact of primary schooling on social outcomes has also been documented. Analysis of the results of
surveys describing the relationship between schooling and health, fertility and child nutrition demonstrate that not only are outcomes
strongly related to the educational level of the individual, but the impact is significantly greater when schooling has spread widely
across the community.
Many of the people of Uttar Pradesh are extremely poor. The National Sample Survey of 1993/94 indicated that 41.6 percent of the
population was below the poverty line (equivalent to under US$1 a day) in this state compared to 35.0 percent across the whole
country. The incidence of poverty is only greater in Bihar and Orissa. Over time the incidence has declined only slowly - from, for
instance 49.5 percent in 1963 to 44.7 percent in 1983. In two of the regions of the state, southern and eastern UP, the incidence of
poverty actually increased between 1972/73 and 1987/88. The Bank study on the causes of inter-state poverty shows that the level of
poverty would have been much reduced had the same educational base been created in Uttar Pradesh as in states such as Kerala and
Tamil Nadu in the 1950s and 1960s. It is extensively documented for Uttar Pradesh that those children aged 6-14 years currently out
of school are the poorest. Whether they never entered or dropped out, survey data suggest that in addition to the lack of a school
close-by and overcrowding, a major cause is the poor quality of schooling and of school facilities.
Overall, Uttar Pradesh has very poor social indicators. Among 17 major states, it is the third worst for literacy, infant mortality and
life expectancy. It has the second lowest female-male ratio, indicating the particularly low status for poor girls. The 1992/93 National
Family Health Survey for Uttar Pradesh demonstrates the strong effect of schooling on a variety of social outcomes. Comparing
women with some primary schooling with illiterate women, on average their fertility rate is 4.2 compared to 5.4, the ideal number of



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 9
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: UPBEP II
children is 3.0 compared to 3.6, the under-five mortality rate of their children is 105 compared to 178, and 32 percent of their children
are fully vaccinated compared to 14 percent. Additional data from the Human Development Profile of India strongly show the impact
of girls' schooling. For instance, the crude birth rate in families with no literate person was 5.3, in families where the husband was
literate but not the wife the rate was 5.0, and in families where the female alone was literate the rate was 2.9.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 4)
While trends in public finances in general are of concern-including sharply rising interest payments, a fall in the share of
development expenditures in total expenditures, increasing deficits and a reduction in the share of capital expenditures in total
expenditures-it is not anticipated that they will adversely affect the implementation of this project. The project is for three years with
a total cost of US$75.7 million, of which the state government's share will be around 21.4 percent This relatively high share is due to
the large component of the project cost devoted to teacher salaries (56 percent) and the declining share of recurrent costs funded by
IDA (from 80 percent to 25 percent). The Government's contribution to the project cost would average Rs. 20 crores a year. Plan
expenditure on basic education in 1995/96 was Rs. 252 crores and non-plan expenditure was Rs. 1636 crores. The fiscal impact of the
project during implementation will be manageable. The experience over the past four years of the Government contributing
counterpart funds to UPBEP is good.
15. Technical Assessment: UPBEP II is a follow-up of the first UPBEP. It complements the earlier investments in expansion of
access and is essential for establishing conditions for continuous quality improvement. The improved learning and teaching materials,
use of BRCs and CRCs to provide in-service training to teachers and school-based support and involvement of the community for
improving school effectiveness will reinforce UPBEP II inputs. Two issues, however, are of particular concern:
*  Slow Observable Change in Classroom Practice. While the thrust of the program of pedagogical renewal is well focused, it
needs to be deepened if it is to result in lasting change. UPBEP supervision will pay particular attention to the effectiveness
of quality improvement strategies and the need to improve and articulate materials (including textbooks) and training
programs put in place and the process of continuous quality improvement. Effectiveness of the new materials and in-service
teacher training in terms of student learning achievement will be monitored through classroom observation studies and
surveys of learning assessment. DPOs are being strengthened by positioning a pedagogy and training professional to
stimulate and facilitate the change process and monitor it on a continuous basis.
*  Well over half the primary schools contain multigrade classes. Teacher training modules addressing this issue are being
designed and learning materials are being developed. Their use in the classroom will be closely monitored during
supervision.
The methods for monitoring and measuring changes in learning achievement and quality change indicators are summarized in
Annexes 2a and 4b.
16. Institutional Assessment: The State and district project offices are fully staffed and their implementation performance as
reflected by disbursements is satisfactory. At the school level VECs have executed the community school construction program
effectively. They are also involved in school management. These institutions can undertake the additional work of UPBEP II and are
expected to complete the project in time. NGOs for implementing non-formal education, alternative schooling, early childhood
education and Mahila Samakhya (women empowerment) and other academic institutions (social science research institutions,
university departments of education) are increasingly involved in the implementation of these project components. The state project
office is guided by UP EFAPB through its General Council and Executive Committee. The institutional arrangements for project
management have performed well in UPBEP and are also expected to perform well in UPBEP II.
SCERT and DIETs, which were expected to be the key resource institutions for pedagogical renewal exercising leadership in the
development of new textbooks, supplementary reading materials and teacher training materials, remain weak, often understaffed
and/or staffed with faculty with little experience in primary education. While improvements have occurred in the past three years,
these remain important areas of weakness, and the capacity building efforts will need to continue and be intensified.
SCERT, SIEMAT, DIETs, BRCs and CRCs will be staffed according to the action program for quality improvement submitted by
GOUP. In addition, a State Resource Group has been established to guide activities relating to curriculum revision, development of
improved learning-teaching materials and teacher training.
17. Social Assessment: UPBEP I was designed to reduce disparities in access, completion and learning achievement among girls and
ST/SC students. In UPBEP I, social assessment was a part of the baseline studies in which focus group discussions were held with
stakeholders, including the disadvantaged group (women and SC persons, village elders) to identify the educational needs of these



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 10
Country: India                                                                           Project Title: UPBEP II
groups and to develop strategies to address these needs. Disaggregated analysis of the data was carried out to further assess the
situation of the disadvantaged groups, particularly girls and Scs, and ongoing social assessment was made an integral part of project
implementation. About 16,000 VECs and teachers carried out a microplanning exercise, including a house-to-house survey covering
over 3 million households to assess the potential school-age population and to identify out-of-school children. The requirement for
additional classroom construction and establishment of new schools has been worked out on the basis of this microplanning exercise.
A study to compare achievement of tribal and other students was also conducted. Tribal populations are very small and well
assimilated into the main population. No significant differences were found. Findings of over two dozen studies on stakeholders and
beneficiaries funded by UPBEP I were also used in developing the PIP.
The process of social assessment and consultation with NGOs and communities, however, highlighted the need to address the needs of
SC children, working children and children of minority communities. Strategies to increase enrollment and attendance of children
from these disadvantaged groups are being piloted under UPBEP I. A strategy to provide basic education to unenrolled and drop out
working children is being field tested. To improve enrollment and completion rates of girls and SC children and to improve learning
achievement, convergence and expansion of Mahila Samakhya and ICDS/ECE are being implemented in the project. These inputs
will continue in UPBEPI I to complement the investment in the project.
18. Environmental Assessment: The project would not raise any environmental concerns. Construction of schools and additional
classrooms is to be on the land donated by the community. No resettlement issue came up during civil construction under the first
UPBEP. GOUP has confirmed to IDA formally in writing that no involuntary resettlement issues will arise from implementing the
civil works component of the Credit in UPBEP II by explaining how the districts will secure the land. The documentation relating to
transfer of land for school construction will be kept in the district education office. Toilets and drinking water facilities are being
provided in all new school buildings.
19. Participatory Approach                 Preparation          Implementation             Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups             IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs                          IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL               IS/CON.COL
Academic institutions                      IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL
Local government                           IS/CON/COL           IS/CON/COL               IS/CON/COL
[Information sharing (IS); consultation (CON); and collaboration (COL)]
Community participation is a key element of UPBEP I. At the grassroots level, communities have mobilized participation by the
VECs which have representation of women and SCs. They are involved in: (i) community school construction, (ii) school
management, in cooperation with the school staff (taking decisions regarding the use of school improvement funds, mobilize
community for enrollment and regular attendance of students, as well as purchasing school supplies and books for the school
libraries), (iii) microplanming and school mapping, (iv) verifying the reliability of the EMIS data collected from the school, and (v)
monitoring attendance of teachers. Consultation of and collaboration with VECs are an integral part of the AWBP planning process
which starts at the school level. This process will continue and be further strengthened in UPBEP II.
NGOs are involved in Mahila Samakhya (women empowerment) to improve the enrollment, attendance and retention of girls, and
early childhood education and alternative schooling are being implemented in partnership with NGOs. NGOs are also involved in
decision making through their representation on the General Council (GC) and Executive Committee (EC) of the EFAPB. Teacher
Associations, including district level chapters, are consulted and involved in implementing curriculum, instructional materials
development and training programs.
Academic Institutions (university departments and social science research institutions) are involved in conducting research and
evaluation studies, providing technical assistance in developing learning materials for students and teachers. Selected professionals
from these institutions are represented on GC and EC. Information is shared with the communities through VECs and in school
functions for parents, with academic institutions and NGOs it is shared through a bi-monthly Newsletter, workshops and conferences.
The process of participation will continue in UPBEP II.
20. Sustainability:
Financial: Incremental recurrent costs at the end of the project period (2001) will result from activities already undertaken in UPBEP
L, those yet to be implemented, and from this project. Under UPBEP I, the costs are estimated at around Rs. 98 crores. In the project,
most of the recurring costs will arise from the appointnent of around 16,000 teachers. The total cost of these, plus teaching materials
and teacher training, will be around Rs. 77 crores in the year following the end of the project. Total expenditure on basic education in



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 11
Country: India                                                                               Project Title: UPBEP H
1995/96 was Rs. 1888 crores, and over the period 1986/87 to 1993/94 real expenditures grew by around 2.0 percent a year. In order
to cover the incremental cost of the combined projects by 2001, real expenditures would also need to increase by 2 percent a year on
average over the period 1993/94 to 2001/02. A continuation of past trends since the mid-1980s implies that allocations would
increase to cover all of the incremental cost of the project, but that no additional resources would be available for non-project areas.
However, over the past three years the allocations have grown by over 4 percent with some additional teaching posts sanctioned in
non-project areas. This gives support to the Government's promise to maintain the activities of UPBEP I and this project. Cabinet
approval for the proposed increase in teacher posts has been given with an understanding of the future liabilities. In the current year,
the state government is paying 20 percent of the salaries of those employed under UPBEPI and in future years this will increase to 40
percent In the proposed new three year project, the state government's contributions will increase from 20 to 75 percent. The phased
increase in liabilities helps to ensure sustainability. Government has so far provided its counterpart funds adequately and has made a
provision for this project in the current budget.
In addition to UPBEP I and II in 12 districts, another 15 districts are planned to be incorporated over the next four years through
DPEP II at a total cost of around US$150 million. The recuning cost of this investment, if the structure is similar to that of UPBEP,
would be roughly Rs. 80 crores. This would increase the required real growth of non-plan expenditure to around 3.4 percent a year-a
rate above that averaged over the past decade but below that achieved in the last three years. Overall, the financial resources required
to sustain the expansion of basic education through these projects can be made available providing that recent trends which have
increased the share of elementary education in total development expenditure are maintained.
Isitional: The institutional set up for the UPBEP I is effective as reflected in the implementation progress so far. The capacity
building activities to sharpen the planning and management skills, analysis and utilization of EMIS data at district and state levels, and
training of VEC members will continue. To train and support teachers' changing classroom practice, to improve student learning
achievement, special attention will be given to the strengthening of staff skills at SCERT and the DIETs, BRCs and CRCs.
21. Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Outputs to Development Objectives
Risk                         Risk Rating                        Risk Minimizing
Demand mobilization activities may not affect      Low           The mobilization record in UPBEP I is satisfactory so far.
Scs, girls and minorities.                                       SC, girls and minority groups will be specifically targeted.
Activities and utilization of the facilities will be closely
monitored during supervision.
Competing demands on state resources may      Low to Medium      GOUP has a record of increasing funding even in difficult
affect availability of funds for long term                       circumstances. In addition, specific arrangements are
sustenance of school quality inputs.                             proposed for (a) filling all vacant teacher posts, (b)
sanctioning additional teacher posts in the state regular
budget, (c) rationalizing teacher deployment, and (d)
rapidly increasing the share of GOUP for incremental
salary cost.
Irregular teacher attendance and insufficient  Low to Medium     VEC responsibilities are being extended to monitor
instructional material may hinder quality                        teacher attendance.
improvement.
SPO management capacity may be stretched                         SPO has excellent record of implementation. A separate
due to implementation of DPEP in 15                              unit within EFAPB will be established for DPEP.
additional districts.
Components to Outputs
There are increasing difficulties in managing a    Low           The project office has the experience of managing a
large-scale construction program.                                community construction program. The VEC members
managing construction of new schools will be trained in
community construction. Third party evaluation in
addition to local technical supervision will be arranged.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                         Page 12
Country: India                                                                                       Project Title: UPBEP II
Deployment of teachers according to state             Medium           Agreement has been reached with GOUP to post teachers
student-teacher norm may not be carried out.                           to meet the current student-teacher norm. Progress based
on student-teacher ratio in rural and urban areas will be
monitored annually in joint supervision mission.
.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Weakness in state and district professional           Medium           Progress in strengthening these institutions was reviewed
resource institutions (SCERT, DIET) may                                and agreement with GOUP to include this component in
slow down the quality improvement efforts.                             the action plan for quality improvement has been reached.
State and District Resource Groups have been established
to improve the quality of education. Implementation will
be closely monitored during supervision.
Overall project risk rating                           Medium
22. Possible Controversial Aspects: None so far. The participatory nature of the project preparation and implementation will allow
such issues to be identified and addressed during supervision, should any such issue arise.
Block 4: Main Credit Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions: There will be no condition for effectiveness.
24. Other : Assurances regarding accounts, audits and procurement obtained from GOI and GOUP would be consistent to those under
UPBEP I.
Key Elements of the Implementation Promram (refer to Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement!:
GOUP shall:
*   establish and maintain a separate and adequately staffed unit within EFAPB for implementation of both UPBEP I and the
Project;
*   establish and maintain VECs in all villages where the Project is carried out;
*   implement a program of teacher deployment in accordance with the current relevant state norms to improve the student-teacher
ratio yearly;
*   by March 31, 1998, appoint a training coordinator in each district Project office;
*   ensure that schools provided under Part A of the Project are constructed and established through VECs in accordance with the
arrangements established under UPBEP I;
*   implement the Project in accordance with strategies acceptable to the Association for improving primary education of female
students;
*   implement the Project in any tribal area (as designated by Uttar Pradesh in accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance
with procedures and delivery strategies to the Association; and
*   include supervision of the Project in the Joint Supervision Program and the DPEP II and include a review of the implementation
of the Project in DPEP II mid-term review scheduled for 1999.
*   ensure that no involuntary resettlement arises from any land, or change of land for the Project, except to the extent that the
Association agrees in writing prior to such resettlement that the arrangements for such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory
to the Association.
EFAPB shall:
*   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
*   twice a year, prepare a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed and present such
report to the joint supervision mission; and
*   duly take into account the comments offered by the Association during each joint review in the course of further implementation
of the Project.
Performance monitoring indicators Outputs:
Performance Monitoring Indicators are attached in the Supplemental Letter to the Project Agreement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 13
Country: India                                                                              Project Title: UPBEP 11
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x                                                                          M This project complies wiah all applicable Bank policies.  l
Task M      :NJniaManager: Edwink Limn






Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Annex 1
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators'      Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
CAS Objective:           *  Literacy rates especially of    *  Census data;    (CAS Objective to Bank
Improve quality,            women.                      *  Household survey    Mission)
effectiveness and service   *  Years of education           data;               (R) Political uncertainty and a
delivery of India's social  completed by the population   *  Economic and       coalition government with large
and anti-poverty            of 15 years and over by         sector work.       numbers of small parties can slow
programs, including         gender.                                            the program of fiscal adjustment
primary education.                                                              and economic reform.
Project Development                                                             (Development Objectives to
Objectives:                                                                     CAS Objective)
Strengthen capacity of   *  Percent of people in the 11-   *  National         (CA) GOUP will maintain its
GOUP to provide              15 and 16-20 age groups with   Educational        commitment to basic education
education of appropriate    completed primary education     Statistics;        beyond the project period, and
quality to all children in  by target group (girls, SC).                       continue to provide adequate
the elementary education                                *  Census Data;        budget allocations-including
age group, especially girls                                                    non-salary expenditures for
and SC children thus                                    *  Household Surveys.  elementary education;
increasing the level of                                                        (CA) GOI will provide special
educational attainment of                                                       assistance to poorer states for
the population.                                                                 basic education.
(R) Lower than anticipated state
growth rate and competing
demands on state resources may
affect availability of funds for
long-term sustenance of school
I_quality inputs.
Project Outputs:                                                               (Outputs to development
Objectives)
1. Expanded access to   *  600,000 additional children    *  EMIS;             (R) Competing demands on state
primary and upper           in the age group 6-10 years    *  PMIS;            resources may affect availability
primary education in 12     enrolled in lower primary   *  VECs attendance     of funds for long-term sustenance
districts particularly for  schools                         reporting          of school quality inputs.
the disadvantaged groups.  *  200,000 children in the age   mechanism
group 11-13 enrolled in    *  Sample Surveys.
upper primary schools;
*  GER (including enrollment
in private schools) raised
from 88% to 100% and from
43% to 75% in the respective
age groups by the year 2000.
2. Increased retention in    *  90% of first graders will  *  EMIS;            (CA) Parents of poorest segments
primary schools.            complete the five year      *  PMIS;               of society will increasingly accept
primary school cycle.      *  VECs attendance    the value of education, especially
reporting;         of girls.
mechanism;
*  Sample Surveys.
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-ternn, end of project and full impact.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
3. Improved learning    *  Achievement scores with     *  Baseline and        (R) Irregular teacher attendance
achievement.                respect to language and math   periodic learning  and inappropriate and insufficient
by type of the disadvantaged  achievement         instructional material may
group.                        surveys.           jeopardize quality improvement at
*  Classroom          the school level.
observation studies.
Project Components                                                            (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a
detailed description.]
1.1 Constructing new    *  587 primary schools plus,   *  PMIS;               (CA) Availability of education
schools and additional  *  307 upper primary schools    *  Progress reports;    facilities in good repair within
classrooms in existing      opened.                    *  Construction        walking distance results in
schools.                *  11124 additional classrooms     agencies' reports;   increased retention, and improved
constructed.                  and                 quality of instruction.
*  Third party        (CA) Community mobilization
evaluation reports.  results in increased demand for
education among impoverished
groups.
1.2 Recruiting additional   *   12,948 teachers recruited.  *  EMIS;          (R) Rationalization of teacher
teachers.                                              *   PMIS;              deployment according to norms
*  regular attendance   may not be carried out.
reporting through
the VECs;
*  Sample surveys.
2.1 Strengthening and   *  587 VECs formed in          *  EMIS;               (CA) There is sufficient interest
mobilizing school           locations of new primary   *  PMIS;               from communities to support and
community organizations     schools.                   *  Progress Reports;    monitor the functioning of
in support of education  *  Existing VECs involved in    *  Field visits by joint  schools.
through the VECs.           school management and          supervision
planning.                     missions(JSMs).
3.1 Developing and      *  Number of titles developed    *  EMIS;
providing improved          and provided.              *  PMIS.               (CA)The material developed will
teaching and learning                                  *  Observation studies  be effectively used by both
materials based on new                                    and survey data.    teachers and students to improve
pedagogy to new schools.                                                     learning achievement.
3.2 Providing in-service    Three weeks residential training    EMIS;        (R) Weakness in state and district
teacher training.       provided for 16,000 new teachers  PMIS;               professional resource institutions
and once a month school-based    classroom observation    (SCERT, DIET) may slow down
in-service training through CRCs.  studies;          the quality improvement efforts.
external evaluations;
Institutional visits;
JSMs.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
Annex 2
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Detailed Project Description
1.     Background: The seven year First Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (Cr. 2509-IN) that became effective on
October 5, 1993 was designed to assist GOUP in establishing the institutional capacity to provide quality primary and upper
primary education to its 6-13 year old children by financing 10 (increased to 12 through bifurcation) out of 63 (now 73) districts.
The project components included: (1) building institutional capacity by establishing the UP Education for All Project Board,
State Institute of Education Planning and Management, strengthening the State Council Educational Research and Training,
District Institutes of Education and Training, establishing Block and Cluster Resource Centers, and establishing a Management
Information System; (2) improving quality and completion rates by strengthening community participation, strengthening
programs for girls and women's education, improving readiness to learn, in-service training of teachers, improving curriculum
and learning-teaching materials, improving school management, rehabilitating existing schools and encouraging pilot projects
and innovations; and (3) improving access through community school construction programs and improving non-formal
education programs.
2.     Considerable progress has been made in the project during the last three years. Village Education Committees (VECs)
have been established. All teachers (about 48,000) in project districts have received three cycles of in-service training.
Improvement in facilities in schools (drinking water and toilets, teaching aids, supplementary reading materials, school libraries,
building maintenance and selective rehabilitation, recurrent in-service teachers training backed by school-based professional
support through BRCs and CRCs to improve student learning and increased community participation in school management
through VECs), are perceived by the communities as efforts towards improvement of the quality of education. This positive
perception has generated demand for education. As a result, enrollments in primary schools increased by 32 percent from 2.7
million in 1991192 to 3.5 million in 1996/97, raising the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) from 75 percent to 88 percent. During
the same period upper primary schools enrollments increased by 40 percent. Available data also show above average enrollment
increases for girls (46.5 percent for girls and 23.5 percent for boys). Enrollments in non project districts also increased (22
percent) but markedly less than project districts (31 percent), indicating a positive effect of the project interventions. The surge
in enrollments constitutes a potential threat to the quality of education. In 1996/97 the student teacher ratio jumped to 50:1. An
estimated 16,000 classrooms and teachers will be required to provide places in school for classes of 45 for all 6-10 year old and
75% of 12-14 year old children by 2000. The Second UP Basic Education Project (UPBEP II) is designed to meet this need and
complements the first UPBEP. Both projects will focus on quality, particularly improvement in classroom practices and student
learning achievement. The change in these two areas so far has been summarized in Annex 2a.
3.     Scope and Approach: This specific investment Credit is designed to complement the first Uttar Pradesh Basic
Education Project by assisting the GOUP to cope with the unanticipated surge in enrollments in the first three years of
implementation. Improved classroom practices and enhanced student learning will be the center stage in implementing UPBEP I
and II. The project would finance construction of new schools and additional classrooms, recruitment of additional teachers,
establishment of school improvement funds, provision and development of learning materials and recurrent in-service training of
additional teachers.
4.     Project Description: The project will have two components: (1) xxpanding access to primary and upper primary
education, especially for the disadvantaged groups (girls, SC and ST children); and (2) improving quality and completion. The
components of institutional capacity building and quality will continue to be funded as provided in UPBEP I.
5.     Project Component 1 - Expanding access to primary and upper primary education, especially for the
disadvantaged groups (US$23.8 million, including contingencies; 31.4 percent of the total project cost). The following
specific activities would be carried out:
(a) Constructing new classrooms and schools: The project will fund construction of approximately 600 primary
and 307 upper primary schools, and 11,000 additional classrooms in existing schools. Incremental salaries of
16,000 teachers will also be funded from the project to meet the requirement of additional enrollment and



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
reduce the student teacher ratio from the existing 50:1 to the state student teacher norm of 45:1. The
discrepancy between student-teacher ratios will be narrowed and annual progress will be reviewed in joint
supervision missions.2
(b) The justification and the location of new schools will be based on the microplanning and school mapping
exercises carried out by VECs. Districts have prepared a list of villages that require new schools and a list of
existing schools that require additional classrooms. These lists will be finalized in consultation with the local
governments (elected block and district panchayat samitis, elected state legislative assembly member of the
area) and the District Implementation Committee (official and non-official members, including NGO and
academic institution representatives). Schools will be built on existing community land owned by Panchayats.
Additional classrooms will be constructed on existing school sites. GOUP has formnally confirmed that no
involuntary resettlement will take place. Construction work will be implemented by the communities with
technical supervision as in UPBEP I. Designs are ready, the construction manuals for the community are
being revised to incorporate lessons learned during the irnplementation of the community construction sub-
component in the first project, and costing is based on the same experience. School building designs include
toilets for boys and girls and provision for water. Third party evaluation will be carried out by December 1998
to assess the quality of civil construction.
6.     Project Component 2 -  Improving quality and completion rates (US$51.9 million, including
contingencies; 68.6 percent). This component includes the following sub-components:
(a) Teaching-learning materials and school improvement funds: The project would fund materials and books for
new schools. To reinforce student learning, children will also be provided workbooks to supplement the
revised textbooks. As in DPEP, all teachers in schools in project districts will receive Rs. 500 per year to
purchase materials to make teaching aids for use in the classroom. This creates an opportunity for teachers to
use new teaching methods learned during in-service training, and has a strong motivational impact as teachers
feel empowered and trusted. In addition, each Village Education Committee is provided a school grant of Rs.
2000 as school improvement fund. VECs make their own decisions on investing this amount for school
improvement. Coupled with incentive grants rewarding best performing VECs in each block under BEP I, this
grant is expected to motivate more VECs to.improve schools, an important step towards increased school
management responsibility for VECs.
(b) Providing additional teachers: The project would fund incremental salaries of 16,000 teachers in the new
primary and upper primary schools and GOUP would implement a program of teacher deployment in
accordance with the current relevant state norms to imnprove the student-teacher ratio yearly. Incremental
salaries of teachers will be funded on a declining basis for three years of the project (80:65:25). At
negotiations, GOUP assured that annual AWBPs shall contain the number of teachers to be appointed each
year of the project, and that the Association would be informed of any deviation in the shedule of teacher
appointment, as outlined in PIP. GOUP informed IDA that the positioning of teachers to move to the state
student-teacher norm has already begun to reduce the disparity between rural and urban areas. EFAPB will
prepare a report of annual progress according to the specified performance indicators in the Supplemental
Letter to the Project Agreement for review by joint supervision missions.
(c) In-service training: In-service training, backed by school-based professional support, is critical to change in
classroom practice and improvement in student learning. The project would fund induction training for newly
appointed teachers and provide a week-long residential training at BRC backed by school-based supervision
and support from the school clusters (over 16,000 teachers). Existing teachers have undergone three cycles of
training in UPBEP I. Modules for integrated training covering basic skills and knowledge in two cycles of the
training of existing teachers will be developed for training newly appointed teachers in UPBEP II. At
negotiations GOUP confirmed its commitment to the strengthening of SCERT, DIETs and the establishment of
state and district resource groups to undertake this additional task. DPOs will be strengthened by appointing a
2 In August 1997 the legal agreements for UPBEP I (Cr. 2509-IN) were amended to provide for an additional 2,450 teachers, 1,250 new schools and
2,150 classrooms. UPBEP I will provide additional places for 600,000 children in primary and 200,000 children in upper primary schools.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
pedagogy and training professional to coordinate, facilitate and monitor the quality component of UPBEP I
and II. School clusters will facilitate and closely monitor use of improved methods of teaching learned during
the training.
(d) Developing learning materials: Learning materials for both teachers and students will be developed in the
project. Integrated training packages based on the three cycles of in-service training for existing teachers
completed under UPBEP I will be developed for new teachers. Self-learning materials for students and
workbooks to supplement the revised textbooks will be funded from this project. SCERT, DIETs and
academic resource groups are being strengthened to implement these activities.
(e) Teacher and school improvement grants: teacher grants to purchase teaching-learning materials and school
improvement grants to VECs will be funded from the project according to the procedures agreed between IDA
and GOI. The expenditures will be disbused against the statement of expenditures (SOE).






Annex 2A
Page I of 2
Annex 2A
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Learning Achievement of Class S Students
1.     Background: The first baseline study (BAS) of three districts was conducted as a part of the first Uttar Pradesh Basic
Education Project's (UPBEP I) preparation in 1992. The study assessed learning achievement of students in language and
mathematics and collected data regarding student, teacher and school variables. In the remaining seven districts and one control
district, the BAS was conducted in 1994. The BAS was repeated in 12 districts (two additional districts were carved out of the
original Nainital and Varanasi districts) in 1995.
2.     Methodology: Multistage sampling was used in the BAS design. At the first stage, 3-4 education blocks and 2-3
wards in urban areas were randomly selected from each district. From each of these blocks, 35-45 schools (proportionate to
school population in rural and urban areas) were randomly selected. In each school, all class 5 students up to 30 were selected
and in classes with more than 30 students, only 30 were selected with a random start. Up to 5 teachers in a school were
interviewed. If a school had more than five teachers, class 5 teachers were included in the sample and another 4 were selected
randomly. The first BAS covered 6,225 class 5 students and 1,323 teachers. The second BAS conducted in 1995 included the
same schools and covered 7,010 class 5 students and 1,433 teachers. Tests in language and mathematics developed by NCERT
for use in a national survey of achievement were used. Interview schedules for class 5 students and teachers and school
schedules were prepared for the project.
3.     Findings: Findings relating to changes in selected teacher variables, classroom activities and class 5 student learnig
achievement are summarized below:
A. Teacher training and supervision
*  In all project districts more than 95 percent of the teachers have received in-service training as compared to about
25-60 percent of teachers who reported receiving in-service training in the first baseline study.
*  About 60-90 percent of teachers in the second BAS reported making and using teaching aids (data in the first BAS
for three districts covered in 1992 are not available).
*  About 60-70 percent of teachers reported assistance from the school head (data in the first BAS for three districts
covered in 1992 are not available).
* Assistance from the sub-district inspector has come down from 90 percent of teachers in the first BAS to 50
percent in the second BAS. School-based academic support functions are being increasingly assumed by the
school cluster head (about 30-55 percent of teachers reported support from the clusters which were in the process
of being established at the time of the second survey).
B. Classroom activities
*  Opportunity to read aloud in the classroom (as reported by class 5 students) increased by 1.3 to 27 percentage
points in 5 out of 7 districts for which comparable data for baseline study one and two are available.
*  The percentage of class 5 students receiving dictation increased by 2-25 percentage points in 6 out of the 7
districts.
*  The percentage of students reporting assignments in mathematics to solve problems in the classroom increased by
3-30 percentage points in 6 out of the 7 districts.
*  The students reporting homework assignments increased by 6-18 percentage points in all the seven districts. The
same trend is reported for correction of work which increased by 46-89 percentage points.
C. Achievement class 5
*  In half of the districts, class 5 student mean achievement has shown improvement in language (word knowledge
and reading comprehension) as well as mathematics. In another three districts the difference is marginally negative
(Table 1).
*  In comparison with the control district the mean achievement of class 5 students in mathematics in all project
districts is higher than in the control district, and in language it is higher than in the control district in 8 districts.
*  In word knowledge, students have scored about 50 percent or more in the project districts, but in language
comprehension and mathematics the students on average have scored less than 40 percent.



Annex 2A
Page 2 of 2
Learning Achievement of Class 5 Students
LANGUAGE                                 MATHEMATICS
Word meaning           Reading Comprehension
(Max score 40)                  (44)                          (40)
Mean Score                 Mean Score                    Mean Score
Districts      Ist Survey    2nd Survey    Ist Survey    2nd Survey   Ist Survey       2nd Survey
1.   Aligarh            20.86         20.66          17.0         13.74          15.96           13.03
2.   Allahabad           19.85        22.50         14.25         14.49          12.85           13.56
3.   Banda              21.04         22.62         15.24         16.16          15.03           14.92
4.   Bhadohi             NA           23.21          NA           15.15           NA             17.69
5.   Etawah              20.0         21.41         13.76         14.58          12.17           12.90
6.   Gorakhpur**         NA           22.31          NA           14.99          13.28           14.15
7.   Nainital*          23.44         21.67         17.64         15.22          13.43           13.01
8.   Pauri              20.21         23.03         18.30         18.12          13.40           14.06
9.   Saharanpur         23.28         21.56         19.70         17.16          15.89           13.08
10.  Sitapur*           18.10         22.0          12.46         15.96          10.28           14.01
11.  U.S. Nagar          NA           21.30          NA           15.37           NA             12.60
12.  Varanasi*          21.02         20.54         15.21         14.56          14.94           13.91
Barabanki                 20.71                       13.94                        11.83
(CD)
V Districts covered under the BAS in 1992
**   Composite mean score in language 1st Survey 34.18; 2nd Survey 37.30
CD   Control District
The inputs for quality improvements were started in schools towards the end of the 1994 academic session, except in-service
training. New supplementary reading materials for language were introduced in the 1995 academic session and new textbooks
will be introduced in 1998. School clusters which provide school-based academic support and supervision became functional in
1995. It is therefore not surprising that there remains considerable variation in the observed early outcomes between districts,
and that no clear evidence of increased learning achievement related to project inputs could be established. The changes in
classroom practice and improvement in learning achievement of students should become more observable towards the end of the
project in 2000. This experience is also supported by analysis of the Andbra Pradesh Education Project (APPEP) funded by
DFID, which aims to change classroom practice through teacher training and support from the school cluster.



Annex 2B
Page 1 of I
Annex 2B
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Summary of the Mid-Term Review
1.     The Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project (UPBEP), declared effective on October 5, 1993, was the first basic
education project in India funded and managed by the World Bank, and currently covers 12 districts (of 63 now 73). The total
cost of the project is estimated at US$193.86 million of which the IDA Credit accounts for US$165 million (approved July 1993,
closing September 2000). The project is implemented by the Government of Uttar Pradesh and the Uttar Pradesh Education for
All Project Board.
2.     The development objectives of the project are to: (a) build institutional capacity; (b) improve quality and completion
rates; and (c) expand access to basic education. An IDA mid-term review mission visited UP between December 5 and
December 19, 1996 to review progress in the 10 districts that were originally included in the project.
3.     The mission found that significant achievements had been attained towards all three project objectives, particularly the
objective which aimed at increasing enrollment and retention rates. Further, IDA disbursements for the project reflect its
progress. Actual project expenditure of Rs. 2953 million is close to the amount that had been estimated in the SAR for
December 1996.
4.     Capacity building: The establishment and strengthening of institutions required for educational development at the
state and district levels have been a successful component. The SPO, DPOs, 10 District Educational Project Committees, DIETs,
BRCs, CRCs, as well as VECs, have been established and are fully functional. The MIS, microplanning and research component
is underway, but requires more focused attention to be linked to overall planning, resource allocation and policy formulation
activities. The mission discussed the need to strengthen staffmg of the SIEMAT and provide assistance in reviewing its five year
plan. It was felt that attention was required to focus on key areas where long-term self-sufficiency and sustainability will be
possible.
5.     Quality improvement: Community participation has been enhanced through the establishment of VECs which have
been strengthened by increasing the representation of unempowered groups, particularly of women. In-service teacher training
is being implemented through a large-scale teacher training program covering 46,000 teachers who are now attending a third
round of training. New manuscripts for textbooks have been developed and will be used from the 1997/98 school year. A set of
supplementary readers has also been distributed to all primary schools. However, during visits to schools, the mission observed
that the impact of the project at the classroom level was small, with teaching practices not having altered in significant ways
through the training programs.
6.     Improving equitable access to basic education: Enrollment in primary schools in project districts has registered an
increase of about 30 percent between 1992 and 1996 (from 2.7 million children in 1992 to 3.6 million in 1996). Similarly, in
upper primary schools, enrollment has grown from about I million children to 1.4 million children, attaining a 40 percent
increase. The gross enrollment rates in primary schools in project districts have gone up from 75 percent to approximately 90
percent. All civil works activities of the project are close to completion.
7.     The mission identified five priorities for action in the remaining years of the project:
* improving teaching practices by establishing a training resource group at the state level to introduce training
methods that have an impact on the way teachers impart teaching in their schools;
* decentralizing implementation responsibility and strengthening district and local institutions such as DPOs, BRCs
and VECs to enable the achievement of the quality and institutional building objectives of the project;
* preparing a teacher recruitment plan indicating teacher requirements by districts;
* preparing a financial plan, based on the MIS and microplanning data to justify the request for the proposed
increase in the number of teachers, classrooms and schools to be fmanced by the project; and
* sustaining project achievements and institutions, with particular attention to the DIETs and SEEMAT.



Annex 2B
Page 1 of 1
Annex 3
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Estimated Project Costs in US$ Millions
Estimated Project Costs:                   Local Foreign  Total
O Expanding
Access
Classroom Construction                21.0   2.1  23.1
O Improving Quality and Retention
Incremental Teacher Salaries          42.2    0.0  42.2
Provision of Teaching Learning         7.2    0.2   7.4
Materials
In-Service Teacher Training            1.8   0.0   1.8
Total Baseline Costs                       72.2    2.3  74.5
Physical Contingencies                 6.9    0.2   7.2
Price                                  -6.0   0.1  -6.0
Contingencies
Total Project                              73.1    2.6  75.7
Costs



Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
Annex 4
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Financial and Economic Analysis
Financial Analysis
While the UP Basic Education Project is not part of the DPEP, a study of education fmance was cornmissioned by the Project
authorities using the terms of reference required for all participating DPEP states. The resulting report is a thorough descriptive
account of education expenditures in general and basic education expenditures in particular since 1985/86. The report is to be
published and will provide the basis for a workshop in Lucknow on education fnance. Educational fnances need to be viewed in the
context of overall trends in state public finances. These can be constructed from Reserve Bank of India publications. The main trends
which have emerged over the past decade include:
a) while revenue expenditures were less than receipts in 1985, they were 20 percent higher in 1995;
b) the revenue deficit increased from 7.5 percent of revenues in 1991/92 to 21.0 percent in 1995/96;
c) interest payments increased from 10.5 percent of revenues in 1985 to 20.5 percent in 1995 and the debt/GSDP ratio is 31
percent, the third highest across all states;
d) development expenditures fell from 70 percent of total revenues in 1985 to 65 per cent in 1990 and to 54 percent in
1995; and
e) capital expenditures have fallen from the equivalent of 33 percent of revenue expenditures in 1985 to 17 percent in 1995.
Within these economy-wide trends, education expenditures increased from 21.0 percent of total recurrent expenditures in
1985 to 22.1 percent in 1990 and fell to 18.6 percent in 1995. However, as a share of development expenditures they have maintained
their share since 1990 (at 34.4 percent). As a share of GSDP they increased from 2.8 percent to 3.5 percent. Growth of expenditure
on basic education has been a little higher than the overall growth rate for the entire education sector.
Unlike the grant funding for primary education in the centrally sponsored District Primary Education Programme, IDA
resources for the UPBEP are transferred from the central government as a loan. The state government also contributes 15 percent
directly to the project society. The total project cost is US$202 million (at current prices) over seven years effective from 1993,
equivalent to around 6 percent of total primary expenditure in 1993/94.
The project will be implemented over two and a half years at a total cost of US$75.7 million of which the state government's
share will be around 21.4 percent. This relatively high share is due to the large component of the project cost devoted to teacher
salaries (56 percent) and the rapidly declining share of recurrent costs funded by IDA (from 80 to 25 percent ). The government's
contribution to the project cost would average Rs. 20 crores a year. Plan expenditure on basic education in 1995/96 was Rs. 252
crores and non plan expenditure was Rs. 1636 crores. The fiscal impact of the project during implementation will be minimal. While
trends in public fnances in general are of great concern-including sharply rising interest payments, a fall in the share of
development expenditures in total expenditures, increasing deficits and a reduction in the share of capital expenditures in total
expenditures - it is not anticipated that they will adversely affect the implementation of the project.
Economic Analysis
The economic and social returns to investment in primary schooling in India have been extensively documented in
departmental ESW published as Primary Education in India in the Bank's Development in Practice Series (1997). Summarizing the
results of the economic studies:
a) the most recent rate of return studies are based on data from 20 years ago in Andhra Pradesh. Adjusted to take account of
school dropouts, the rates were 13 and 15 percent for primary and upper primary respectively. These rates were higher
than for other levels of education.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
b) recent analysis of historical data on rural households living in areas where rural development programs were being
implemented concluded that for every one rupee increase in profit due to the effects of exogenous technical change, those
households with primary schooling experienced an additional 1.38 rupees and that schooling had a substantially larger
effect on productivity than did extension services.
c) a disaggregation of the sources of economic growth between 1971 and 1981 indicated significant effects of education and
of primary education in particular. However, cross country evidence suggests that a minimum level of average
educational attainment across the labor force is required before the effect is maximized. The Indian labor force is below
that minimum.
d) a recent Bank study to investigate the unevenness in changes in rural living standards and levels of poverty across Indian
states between 1957 and 1991 concluded that higher agricultural output, lower inflation and higher state spending on
development programs provided only a partial explanation and that better infrastructure in general and higher literacy in
particular had a significant impact.
Summarizing the results of studies of the relationship between schooling and social outcomes in the National Family Health
Surveys of 1992/93, two major conclusions emerged:
(i) within each state there is a clear relationship between levels of schooling and total and desired levels of fertility, infant
and child mortality, child immunization rates and severely malnourished children; and
(ii) equally important, comparisons across states indicate that the effects of education on an individual woman are greater in
states with a wider education coverage. This suggests that the social benefits of education are greater once the coverage
of a particular level has gone beyond some critical point.
No rate of return studies have been carried out in Uttar Pradesh. However, the links between literacy and poverty levels
identified by the Bank poverty study indicate that raising the literacy level would have a significant effect on the incomes of the poor.
Many of the population of Uttar Pradesh are extremely poor. The National Sample Survey of 1993/94 indicated that 41.6 percent of
the population were below the poverty line (equivalent to under US$1 a day) in this state compared to 35.0 percent across the whole
country. The incidence of poverty is only greater in Bihar and Orissa. Over time the incidence has declined only slowly-from, for
instance 49.5 percent in 1963 and 44.7 percent in 1983. In two of the regions of the state, Southern and Eastern UP, the incidence of
poverty actually increased between 1972/73 and 1987/88. Had the same educational base been created in Uttar Pradesh as in states
such as Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the 1950s and 1960s, the Bank study on the causes of inter-state poverty shows that the level of
poverty would have been much reduced. It is extensively documented for Uttar Pradesh that those children aged 6-14 years currently
out of school are the poorest. Whether they never entered or dropped out, survey data suggest that in addition to the lack of a school
close-by and overcrowding, a major cause is the poor quality of schooling and of school facilities.
The female literacy rate in Uttar Pradesh is the third lowest across all states and the estimated enrollment rate of 6-10 year
olds is the fourth lowest. The results of sector work show that those disproportionately out of school are girls and poor boys.
Enrollment rates between children of landless wage earners and those from families with land differ by 27 percentage points. The
expansion of primary schooling arising from the project will most benefit poor children.
Across Indian states, Uttar Pradesh has the highest fertility and crude birth rates and the second highest rate of infant
mortality. However, education does make a difference as Tables 1, 2 and 3 demonstrate.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
Table 1: Total Fertility Rates and Ideal Number of Children by Women's Education
Total Fertility               Ideal # of Children
Illiterate                                       5.4                             3.6
Less than middle                                 4.2                             3.0
Middle complete                                  3.8                             2.7
Secondary +                                     2.6                              2.4
Table 2: Infant and Child Mortality and Vaccinations by Mother's Education
Mortality                    Infant Vaccination
Infant           Child              All            None
Illiterate                              127               58                14              50
Less than middle                         73               35                32              29
Secondary +                              54                9                52              8
Note: the rates for mortality are per 1000 live births and for vaccinations are percent
Table 3: Child Nutritional Status by Mother's Education (percent)
Severely Malnourished
Weight for Age                       Height for Age
Illiterate                                21                                    29
Less than middle                           19                                   27
Middle complete                            14                                   24
Secondary +                                9                                    16
In all cases, though less so for the nutritional indicators, the impact of schooling is significant. However, for the effect of each level of
schooling to be maximized requires a much wider educational coverage.
Increasing Internal Efficiency
A central objective of the Basic Education Project in U.P. is to improve the quality of schooling. This in turn is anticipated
to lead to a reduction in levels of repetition and dropout. Across India, the official dropout rate over primary I-V is 35 percent and an
average of alnost one in three children repeat at least one year. In Uttar Pradesh, the overall dropout rate has been estimated to be
around 36 percent with the repetition rate of 4-5 percent a year (Mehta 1995). Using a standard flow model, the rates imply that in
Uttar Pradesh for every 1000 students entering the first grade, only 615 graduate eventually. To produce these 615 graduates, the
system utilizes an amount of resources equal to 4171 pupil-years or 6.8 years per graduate of a five year cycle. This implies that
around 35 percent more resources are being used than would be required with no dropout or repetition. Expenditure on elementary
education in 1995/96 was Rs. 1636 crores. Roughly 60 percent of this was for the primary cycle-Rs. 980 crores. An efficient
system could have produced the same number of graduates for an annual budget of Rs. 726 crores-or US$70 million. If the quality
enhancing components of BEP do result in lower dropout rates, in particular, the savings over time will be high. Halving the rates
would yield savings of around US$35 million a year.






Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Annex 5
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Financial Summary
Operational Period
1998      1999       2000
Project Costs (US$ Million, Including Contingencies)
Investment Costs                                   8.0       12.8       12.1
Recurrent Costs                                   19.1       19.3        4.4
Total                            27.1       32.1       16.5
Financing Sources (% of Total Costs)
IDA                                               84%    76%    75%
GOUP                                              16%   24%    25%
Total                          100%       100%       100%
Expenditure Accounts by Years
(Costs in US$ Millions)
Calendar Year
1998      1999       2000       Total
Investment Costs
Civil works                                       5.9        9.5        8.4       23.8
Teaching-learning materials                       0.2        0.2        0.2        0.6
Teacher Grants                                    0.6        0.8        1.4        2.8
School Improvement Funds                          0.0        0.1        0.1        0.2
Local training & workshops                        0.4        0.7        0.6        1.8
Materials development & consultancy se            0.9        1.5        1.3        3.7
Total Investment Costs                              8.0       12.8       12.1       33.0
Recurrent Costs
Incremental teach salaries                       19.1       19.3        4.4       42.7
Total Recurrent Costs                              19.1       19.3        4.4       42.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                                  27.1       32.1       16.5       75.7



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
Annex 6
Table A: Procurement
Total Cost in US$ Millions /a
Procurement Method
National     Direct       Other      Consulting
Shopoine   Contracting   Methods /b    Services    Total
CIVL WORKS
Civil works                            21.4            -         2.4                    23.8
(19.3)                    (2.1)                 (21.4)
GOODS
Teaching-learning materials (incl.
books and audio-visual material)         0.5         0.1              -           -      0.63
(0.5)      (0.1)                                 0.56
CONSULTANTS AND SERVICES
Project preparation (incl. training,
workshops)                                 -          1.4             -         0.4       1.8
(1.4)                    (0.4)      (1.8)
Institutional development (incl.
consultants, materials
development)                               -         0.9              -         2.8       3.7
(0.9)                    (2.8)      (3.7)
MISCELLANEOUS
Incremental salaries                       -        42.7              -           -      42.7
(28.9)                              (28.9)
Teacher grants & school
imnprovement funds                         -         3.1              -           -       3.1
(3.1)                               (3.1)
Total                                     22.0         48.1           2.4         3.1      75.7
(19.8)     (34.3)          (2.1)       (3.1)    (59.4)
Note:
/a Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
/b  Works may be procured (1) under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of three quotes
in response to a written invitation, (2) through community construction in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA, or (3) as a last resort and with IDA's prior approval, through Force Account.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
Table 6B:. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior
Expenditure                     Contract Value                  Procurement              Contracts Subject to
Category                       (Tbreshold)                      Method                    Prior Review
1. Worka
Civil Works             Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
not exceeding US$23,800,000 may be executed
by:
(i) Community construction methods; or  Procedures satisfactory  Post review only
to IDA
(ii) on the basis of comparison of price quotationsSolicitation of 3 bids   Post review only
obtained from at least three qualified contractors
eligible under the guidelines; or
(iii) by Force Account as a last resort in a mannerForce Account  Post review only
satisfactory to the Association.
Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of National Competitive   First works contract regardless of value
US$20,000 or more per contract.         Bidding               and all contracts above US$300,000 by
prior review in accordance with
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines. All others by post review.
2. Goods
Teaching-learning materials US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregateNational Shopping    With respect to each contract for goods
not exceeding USS800,000 equivalent      Procedures (includes   estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or
DGS&D Rate Contracts) more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Books and audio-visual    US$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregateDirect Contracting    Post review only
materials               not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent
3. Services
(a) Consultant and research US$100,000 or less per contract, up to an  Single Source Selection {i) With respect to each contract for firms
activities less than $100,000 aggregate not exceeding US$100,000 equivalent (acceptable for tasks    estimated to cost the equivalent of
representing a natural  US$200,000 or more, the procedures set
continuation of     forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the
assignment when rapid third subparagraph 2(a)) and 5 of
selection essential for  Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines
very small assignments, shall apply.
or when only one firm
is qualified. Selection   (ii) With respect to each contract for firms
criteria for NGOs and   estimated to cost the equivalent of
Operational Research)  US$50,000 or more, the procedures set
following Guideleins   forth in paragraphs 1,2 (other than the
agreed with IDA and as second subparagraph 2(a)) and 5 of
noted in the Project    Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines
Implementation       shall apply.
Document.
(b) Contractual instructors, US$5,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregateHiring of Service  (iii) With respect to each contract for
individual researchers  not exceeding US$25,000                  Delivery Contractors - individual consultants estimated to cost the
(applies to large    equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
numbers of service   qualifications, experience, terms of
delivery contractors    reference and tenms of employment shall
contemplated under    be fumished to IDA for prior review.
project such as NFE
centre workers, and
small individual
consultant contracts.)



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
4. Miscellaneous
(a) Incremental    Normal Govt staff hiring practices      N/A                       Post review only
Salaries estimated at
US$42,800,000
(b) Teacher grants  Small grants given each year to classroom  Direct Contracting    Post review only
and school       teachers (Rs.500) and School VECs (Rs2,000)
improvement funds
estimated at
USS21900.000
Table 6C: Allocation of the Credit Proceeds
Amount in               IDA Financing
Expenditure Category                      US$ Million                Percentage
Civil works                                                19.3                       90%
Teaching-leaming                                           0.5
Teacher grants & school improvement                        2.8
Local training & workshops                                  1.6                      100%
Materials development & consultant                         3.3
Incremental Salaries                                       27.5          80% of local expenditures
incurred through December
31, 1998; 65% of
expenditures incurred from
Janaury 1, 1999 through
December 31, 1999; and
25% of expenditures
incurred thereafter.
Unallocated                                                4.4
TOTAL                59.4



Annex 7
Page 1 of I
Annex 7
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned                 Achuia
(At final PCD stage)
(FY97 + FY98)                                         76.7           23.3 (As of 10127/97)
B. Project Schedule                                 Planned                 AchuaI
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          8 month
First Bank mission (identification)                                       0311711997
Appraisal mission departure                             -                 06/27/1997
Negotiations                                       09/18/1997             09/19/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness                      12131/1997             03/31/1998
Prepared by: Govermnent of Uttar Pradesh
Preparation assistance: IPPF, trust funds, cofinanciers, etc.] Nil
Bank staff who worked on the project included: N. K. Jangira (Education Specialist, SACIF), Adriaan
Verspoor (Education Advisor, SACIF), Keith Hinchliffe (Senior Economist, SASED), Juan Prawda (Senior
Education Specialist, SASED), Kevin Casey (Senior Implementation Specialist, SASED), Brajesh Panth
(Education Specialist, SACNF), Mark Schlagel (Projects Assistant, SASED), Sudesh Ponnappa (Staff
Assistant, SACIF), Gertrude Stubblefield (Senior Staff Assistant, SASED)



I
I



Annex 8
Page I of 2
Annex 8
INDIA: Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Educaton Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
1. Mid-Term Review, December 1996
2. PCD Review Minutes, May 1997
3. Peer Review Reports
4. Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report, March 1997
5. Pre-appraisal Aide Memoire, June 1997
6. ROC Review Minutes, July, 1997
C. Other:
1. Jangira N.K., Venita Kaul and M.B. Menon. 1997. Minimum Learning Level Program: An
Evaluation,UNICEF, New Delhi.
2. GOI. 1997. India 1996. New Delhi: Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.
3. India, Ministry of Human Resource Development. 1992. National Policy on Education. New Delhi:
Department of Education.
4.  __. 1996. Analysis of Budgeted Expenditure on Education 1992-93 to 1993-94. New Delhi: Planning and
Monitoring Unit, Department of Education.
5. IIPS. 1993. National Family and Health Survey. Bombay: International Institute of Population Sciences.
6. Mehta Arun C. 1994. Education for All in India: Myths and Realities. Kanishka Publishers and Booksellers,
New Delhi.
7. Mehta Arun C. 1995. Projections of Student Enrollment and Flows. New Delhi: National Institute of
Educational Planning and Administration.
8. Tewary, Hardev. 1997. State Finance Studies (Education). Education for All Project Board, Lucknow.
9. UP EFAPB. 1996. Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project. Uttar Pradesh Education for All Project Board,
State Project Office, Lucknow.
10. UP EFAPB. 1996. Facfiyle. Uttar Pradesh Education For All Project Board, Lucknow.
11. World Bank. 1997. Primary Education in India: Development in Practice. The World Bank, Washington.



Annex 8
Page2of2
12. World Bank. 1993. StaffAppraisal Report India: Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Project. The World Bank
Washington.
13. World Bank. 1994. StaffAppraisal Report India: District Primary Education Program. The World Bank,
Washington.
14. World Bank. 1996. Staff Appraisal Report India: Second District Primary Education Project. The World
Bank, Washington.
15. Dr. K.N. Rao, Education Field Officer. February 1994. "Evaluation of an APPEP Training Course-A Case
Study of Course- VB for Teachers ". British Council Division, AP Projects Office, Hyderabad.
16. Report of Main Survey 3. November-December, 1994. "Implementation of the Project in Schools".
Andhra Pradesh Primary Education Project, Directorate of School Education, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad.
17. Report of Main Survey 4. November-December, 1994. "Implementation of the Project in Schools" -
Andhra Pradesh Primary Education, Directorate of School Education, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad.



Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in India
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1997)
Original Amount in US$                Difference
Millions                        Between
-_________________________          expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                          and actual
or    Year               Project              IBRD      IDA    Cancel-   Undis-       disburse-
Credit                                                            lations    bursed      ments a/
No.
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 365
Active Loans
C19230  1988  TAMIL NADU URBAN                     0.00   300.20     45.47     20.51           65.02
L30960   1989  MAHARASHTRA POWER                 400.00     0.00     62.67      85.04          141.61
L30240  1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                485.00     0.00      0.00    227.97          217.27
L29940  1989  STATE ROADS I                      170.00     0.00     61.41      9.95          151.36
C20080  1989  VOCATIONAL TRAINING                  0.00   250.00    103.33     41.94          168.62
L32370  1990  NOR REG TRANSM                     485.00     0.00      0.00    259.06          251.06
L31190  1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOP.                145.00     0.00     10.00     27.71           37.71
C21580  1990  SECOND TN NUTRITION                  0.00    95.80     29.81       3.49          23.71
C21330  1990  POP. TRG (VII)                       0.00    86.70     22.74       8.71          31.93
C21310  1990  WTRSH PLAINS                         0.00    55.00      0.00      17.90           9.92
C21300  1990  TECH EDUC I                          0.00   235.00     24.26     60.59           78.90
C21150  1990  HYDERABAD W/S                        0.00    79.90      0.00      24.36          21.30
C21000  1990  WTRSH HILLS                          0.00    75.00      0.00     32.76           40.26
C20760  1990  PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAG                 0.00   150.00      4.72      36.70          34.71
C20640  1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                 0.00    55.00      0.00     24.51            17.53
L33640  1991  GAS FLARING REDUCTIO               450.00     0.00      0.00      25.87          25.87
L33340  1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO               124.00     0.00      0.00      20.53           -6.07
L33000  1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                      20.00     0.00      0.00     20.00             1.25
L32590  1991  PETROCHEMICALS                     233.00     0.00     70.30      30.77         -131.93
L32580  1991  PETROCHEMICALS                      12.00     0.00      0.00       1.88            1.88
C22520  1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO                 0.00    31.60      0.00      19.44          18.30
C22410  1991  DAM SAFETY                           0.00   130.00      0.00     99.39          115.38
C22340  1991  MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                 0.00   109.90      0.00     43.21           45.11
C22230  1991  TECHEDUCII                           0.00   307.10     51.37    132.95          138.85
C22150  1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                       0.00    92.80      0.00      17.07          14.39
C21730  1991  ICDS I (ORIS & ANDHR                 0.00    96.00     21.65     22.46           41.43
L34980  1992  MAHARASHTRA POWER II               350.00     0.00      0.00    237.75          230.55
L34700  1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS II                   153.00     0.00      0.00    153.00            0.00
L34360  1992  POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP               265.00     0.00     25.00     72.31           92.01
C23940  1992  POPULATION VIII                      0.00    79.00      0.00     71.51           45.93
C23650  1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS II                     0.00   153.00      0.00     79.77           56.68
C23500  1992  AIDS PREVENTION AND                  0.00    84.00      0.00     32.13           30.91
C23410  1992  WEST BENGAL FORESTRY                 0.00    34.00      0.00      4.67             1.22
C23290  1992  SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                 0.00    85.00     48.51     24.81           58.93
C23280  1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                 0.00   124.00      16.18     63.41          43.52



Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
Original Amount in US$                 Difference
Millions                        Between
expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                           and actual
or    Year               Project              IBRD      IDA      Cancel-   Undis-       disburse-
Credit                                                             lations    bursed      ments a/
No.
L36320  1993  NTPC POWER GENERATIO                400.00     0.00      0.00    256.65           256.65
L35770   1993  PGC POWER SYSTEM                   350.00     0.00      0.00    189.40           140.20
C25280  1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                  0.00    85.00      0.00      59.30           36.58
C25100  1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                  0.00    54.70      0.00      33.64           10.65
C25090  1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                   0.00   165.00      0.00      76.32            4.86
C24830  1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                  0.00    92.00      0.00      70.11           43.04
C24700  1993  ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                  0.00   194.00      0.00    170.35            73.25
C24490  1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES                   0.00   115.00      0.00      87.81           73.70
C24390  1993  BIHAR PLATEAU                         0.00   117.00      0.00      87.29           64.15
C24330  1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                       0.00   106.00      0.00      47.02           16.83
C24090  1993  RUBBER                                0.00    92.00     36.58      40.46           46.45
L37530   1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT                 94.00     0.00      0.00      82.54           54.54
C26300  1994  POPULATION IX                         0.00    88.60      0.00      75.85           13.06
C26110  1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                     0.00   117.80      0.00    101.34            20.96
C25940  1994  MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUA                  0.00   246.00     29.19      63.00           80.11
C25920  1994  WATER RES CONSOLID H                  0.00   258.00      0.00    197.61            50.01
C25730  1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FORES                  0.00    77.40      0.00      55.97           14.19
C25720  1994  FORESTRY RESEARCH ED                  0.00    47.00      0.00      35.04           20.04
L39076   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II                269.80     0.00    189.30      77.10           -3.40
L38576   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV               144.00     0.00      0.00    142.46            -1.54
L38560   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV               350.00     0.00      0.00    200.00          -150.00
L37806   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                50.00     0.00      0.00      45.51           -4.49
L37790   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                93.00     0.00      0.00      85.93            3.98
C27450  1995  TAMIL NADU WRCP                       0.00   282.90      0.00    239.67            44.30
C27330  1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRA                     0.00   126.00      0.00    108.63            15.59
C27000  1995  MP FORESTRY                           0.00    58.00      0.00      43.60            2.53
C26990  1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                  0.00    59.50      0.00      50.10           19.59
C26630  1995  AP 1ST REF. HEALTH S                  0.00   133.00      0.00    117.44            20.01
C26610  1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                   0.00   260.30      0.00    192.43            15.67
C26450  1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                  0.00    25.00      0.00      24.68           25.00
L40560   1996  UP RURAL WATER                      59.60     0.00      0.00      57.20            -.20
L40140   1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR                350.00     0.00      0.00    334.57             -.43
L39920   1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE               200.00      0.00      0.00    175.00            -3.50
L39230   1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                  167.00     0.00      0.00    153.85            27.15
C28760  1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                  0.00   425.20      0.00    398.44             6.51
C28620  1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                  0.00    63.00      0.00      57.47            1.11
C28380  1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                   0.00     5.00      0.00       4.74            5.00
C28330  1996  STATE HEALTH SYS II                   0.00   350.00      0.00    316.11            16.94
C28010  1996  ORISSA WRCP                           0.00   290.90      0.00    237.34            -5.81
C27740  1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                     0.00   142.00      0.00    119.69            15.24
L41920   1997  STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)              350.00      0.00      0.00    350.00             0.00
L41660   1997  AP IRRIGATION III                  175.00     0.00      0.00    175.00             0.00
L41560   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 50.00     0.00      0.00      50.00            0.00
L41140  1997  TA ST'S RD INFRA DEV                 51.50     0.00      0.00     47.76             6.26
C29640  1997  MALARIA CONTROL                       0.00   164.80      0.00    166.17             0.00



Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
Original Amount in US$               Difference
Millions                       Between
expected
Loan   Fiscal                                                                        and actual
or    Year              Project              IBRD     IDA    Cancel-   Undis-       disburse-
Credit                                                          lations    bursed      ments a/
No.
C29520  1997  AP IRRIGATION III                   0.00   150.00      0.00    150.70           0.00
C29500  1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 0.00   100.00      0.00    100.51           0.00
C29420  1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                   0.00    19.50      0.00     18.82           0.00
C29360  1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                0.00   142.40      0.00    132.50          -1.18
C29300  1997  ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                0.00    50.00      0.00    48.37            0.00
C29160  1997  ECODEVELOPMENT                      0.00    28.00      0.00    25.62           -1.00
CN018   1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH1                0.00   248.30      0.00    250.24           0.00
0
6,445.90 7,688.30    852.48  8,481.50       3,286.36
Active Loans    Closed Loans       Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     4,778.67      29,571.14      34,349.81
of which has been repaid:          168,78       8,544.66       8,713.44
Total now held by IBRD and         13,112.93      20,479.55      33,592.48
IDA:
Amount sold         :                   0.00         133.77         133.77
Of which repaid    :                  0.00         133.77          133.77
Total Undisbursed   :               8,481.50          96.81       8,578.31
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
(As of June 30, 1997)
Amounts in US$ Millions
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval          Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Qua   Partic
Si
1964/75/79/90     MUSCO                   0.00    1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08  0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HDFC                   40.00    2.29    0.00    0.00   40.00    2.29  0.00    0.00
1981              Nagarjuna Steel         0.00     .07    0.00    0.00    0.00     .07  0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode          0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.55  0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92    TISCO                 8.45   15.37    0.00    0.00    8.45   15.37  0.00    0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                      .83    6.49    0.00    3.33     .83    6.49  0.00    3.33
1982              Modi Cement            16.83    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.83    0.00  0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        IndiaLease              1.31     .86    0.00    0.00    1.31     .86  0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge           13.05     .68    0.00    0.00   13.05     .68  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills           .48    0.00    0.00    0.00     .48    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-CECL                 .01    0.00    0.00    0.00     .01    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-NB Footwear         .19    0.00    0.00    0.00      .19    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Paharpur             .15    0.00    0.00    0.00     .15    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                  .46    0.00    0.00    0.00     .46    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-TAN                  .03    0.00    0.00    0.00     .03    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Wires & Fab.        .07    0.00    0.00    0.00      .07    0.00  0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                   0.00   13.05    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.05  0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Equipment         .60    .77    0.00    1.47       .60     .77  0.00    1.47
1987              Hindustan               7.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.40    0.00  0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     Titan Watches           2.74    1.03    0.00    0.00    2.74    1.03  0.00    0.00
1988/90/92        Tata Telecom            0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00     .10  0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Invel               0.00    1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40  0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                    13.72    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.72    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989              UCAL                    0.00     .63    0.00    0.00    0.00     .63  0.00    0.00
1989/90/94        Tata Electric          64.24    0.00    0.00    0.00   64.24    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989/91           Gujarat State          11.35    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.35    0.00  0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India               0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.21  0.00    0.00
1990              HOEL                    0.00     .28    0.00    0.00    0.00     .28  0.00    0.00
1990              TDICI-VECAUS II         0.00    1.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.94  0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                   48.79    0.00    0.00   67.00   48.79    0.00  0.00   67.00
1990/93/94        IL&FS                  27.75    3.11    1.81   10.00   27.75    3.11  1.81   10.00
1990/94           ICICI-IFGL              0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30  0.00    0.00
1990/95           ICICI-SPIC Fine         0.00    1.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.88  0.00    0.00
1991              Block KG-OS-IV          0.00     .02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1991              BSES                   45.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   45.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1991/93           Triveni                 0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11  0.00    0.00
1991/96           VARUN                  11.35    1.35    0.00    5.33   11.35    1.35  0.00    5.33
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co         0.00    .01    0.00    0.00    0.00      .01  0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF               0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00  0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund          0.00     .64    0.00    0.00    0.00     .64  0.00    0.00
1992              SKF Bearings            6.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.70    0.00  0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills            0.00   17.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.10  0.00    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries       85.55    5.77    0.00   85.00   38.19    5.77  0.00    0.00
1992/95           Creditcapital VF        0.00    1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05  0.00    0.00
1992/96/97        NICCO-UCO               1.88    .50    0.00    0.00    1.88      .50  0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        IndoRama               20.31   11.98    0.00    8.13   20.31   11.98  0.00    8.13
1993/97           20TH Century           15.78     .80    0.00    4.62    5.78     .80  0.00    4.62



Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
Amounts in US$ Millions
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval           Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Qua   Partic
Si
1994               Centurion Growth        0.00    2.39    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.39  0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule               15.00    4.58    0.00   27.00   13.75    4.58  0.00   24.75
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt        0.00     .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32  0.00    0.00
1994              DLF Cement              11.00    4.94    0.00   17.00   11.00    4.94  0.00   17.00
1994               Global Trust            0.00    3.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.19  0.00    0.00
1994               Gujarat Ambuja          0.00    8.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.23  0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare        0.00    7.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.17  0.00    0.00
1994               TCAMC                   0.00     .16    0.00    0.00    0.00     .16  0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                    40.00    8.30    0.00   37.65   30.00    8.30  0.00   37.65
1995               Centurion Bank          0.00    3.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.87  0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK               25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   25.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1995               ISIC                    0.00     .32    0.00    0.00    0.00     .32  0.00    0.00
1995              Prism Cement            15.00    5.02    0.00   15.00   15.00    5.02  0.00   15.00
1995               Rain Calcining         19.25    5.40    0.00    0.00   10.50    4.72  0.00    0.00
1995               RPG Communicatns        0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30  0.00    0.00
1995               Sara Fund               0.00    7.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10  0.00    0.00
1995               SRF Finance            13.89    5.00    0.00    0.00   13.89    4.39  0.00    0.00
1996               CVF Oil Gas-AL          8.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996              India Direct Fnd         0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00     .82  0.00    0.00
1996              Indus II                 0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00  0.00    0.00
1996              Indus Mauritius          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996               Moser Baer              5.70     .60    0.00    0.00    5.70    0.00  0.00    0.00
1996              United Riceland         10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT                   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997               Owens Coming           25.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
1997               WIPRO                  10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:              662.86  190.74    1.81  281.53  512.50  166.22  1.81  194.28
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Egity  Quas   Partic
1997               AEL                    16.00    5.50    0.00    0.00
1996               CESC II -BLINC          0.00    0.00    0.00   37.00
1996              DEV CREDIT BANK          0.00    1.89    0.00    0.00
1997              DUNCAN HOSPITAL          7.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                    0.00     .03    0.00    0.00
1995              IB VALLEY POWER         50.00   20.00    0.00    0.00
1997              ITC CLASSIC             20.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1994              NEYVELI POWER           30.00   18.00    0.00  150.00
1997               NUFSL                   5.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1997               SAPL                    0.00     .07    0.00    0.00
1995               SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE        0.00     .86    0.00    0.00
1997               SREI                   15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1996               TARUN SHIPPING          0.00     .80    0.00    0.00
1997               WALDEN - MGMT           0.00     .08    0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                     0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     143.00   57.23   10.00  192.00



Annex 10
India at a glance                                                               8/20/97 Page I of 2
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              South    Low-
India     Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                        943.2      1,264    3,229                Lfe expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               380        380      500
GNP 1996 (bilflons US$)                               358.4       481    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           1.7       1.9      1.7      GNP                              Gross
Laborforce ('%)                                         2.0        2.1      1.7      per                            Gprmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita                        enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               35
Urban population ?% of toiat populagon)                  27         26       29
Lffe expectancy at birth (years)                         62        61        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 68        75        69              Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children undoer5)               63
Access to safe water (% of population)                   63         63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     48         50       34                l
Gross primary enrotment (% of school-age populahon)     102         98      105                 ndia
Male                                                  113        110      112              Low-income group
Female                                                 91        87        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions US$)                            91.0    214.3      328.3    355.8
Gross domestic investmenUGDP                  20.8     24.2       26.2     26.5              Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP              6.2      6.0       12.2     12.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    20.4     21.1       23.6     23.9
Gross national savingslGDP                    20.6     21.6       24.0     25.1
Current account balance/GDP                    0.0     -2.8       -1.8     -1.11                                  Inesmet
Interest payments/GDP                          0.3      0.6        1.2               Savings                       Investment
Total debtWGDP                                15.1      19.1      28.6     27.6                     N
Total debt servicelexports                    13.1     22.7       28.2
Present value of debtGDP                         ..      ..       22.8
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    161.4                             Indebtedness
1976-86  1986-96     1995      1996  1997046
(average annual growth)                                                                        Inda
GDP                                   4.2      5.6      7.3        7.5
GNP percapita                         1.9      3.5      5.4        5.2       ..                           g
Exports of goods and services         3.9     11.5     31.6        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(%ofGDP)                                      1976     1986                        | Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                   40.5     33.0       27.9     27.8      30.
Industry                                      23.7     28.1       30.1     29.2
Manufacturing                                16.7     17.9      19.7      20.1
Services                                      35.8     3868       42.1     43.0       o
\   2    03   04   ss   srs
Private consumption                           70.2     67.8       65.8     65.6                     24               9
General govemment consumption                  9.4      11.1      10.6     10.5                     GDI       GDP
Imports of goods and services                  6.6      9.1       14.9     14.9
1976-86  1986-96      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    2.5       3.6      -0.1      5.7      40
Industry                                       5.3      6.6       11.6      7.0
Manufacturing                                 5.5      6.7      13.6       8.1     20                            /
Services                                       5.1      6.7        8.8      7.4
Private consumpton                             4.5      4.8        2.6      7.1       o
General govemment consumption                  6.5      3.9        5.1      6.4                     s                    s
Gross domestic investment                      4.1      7.1       17.9      8.5    -20
Imports of goods and services                  9.1      6.0       17.3      7.0                 -Expots  Imports
Gross natonal product                          4.1      5.4        7.2      6.7
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estmates. All GDP data other than sectoral value-added are in market prices.
Thp rIiimnndt thnw fns.r k.v inrlirfnrm in h. nn,,ntrm fin hnld r.nmnnrd with itt inPm^.-nm.an sua-n. If tInta am ni..inn th. dli.rnnd w-I



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
lviS    1#6S       1335    133
Domrestc prices                                                                  1nW11  1%)
(% change)                                                                       is
Consumer prices                               ..      5.6      10.2       ..
Implicit GDP deflator                        -1.5     7.5       7.3      7.0
Govemment finance
(X of GDP)                                   o                                                                  I
Current revenue                               ..    23,8       24.3       ..            e1    2    n    04   ff    a
Current budget balance                        ..      2.2       1.0       ..                -GDPd.  --
Overall surplus/deic"t                         ..    11.       10.1
TRADE
iva ise       lees     i
(miMons US$)                                                                     Export and 1n6r levels (miL USI)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   S.793    31.783   33,107       kow
Tea                                          ..    512        350
Iron                                         ..    473        S18        ..    soeroi
Manufactures                                 ..   5.640    24,4S3
Total imports (c)                              ..  15,957    36,354   38.646     2o          _
Food                                         .. 1,321  1.243                       ii*iiiill
Fuel and energy                              ..   4,054      7.201       .      9.0W
Capital goods                                ..   3,502      6577 
Export price index (1987100                   ..       94        99                     so  091   2  n   94  ss  a
Import price index (1987=100)                  ..      90       121        *-                     rts   *Irports
Teffns of trade (1987*100)                            1U104      e1
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1S75    19#S      199S    I$"
(Mons US$)                                                                       Cwrunl aeo_i besv  to GM ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services              5,660   12,M      40,161   43,855
Imports of goods and services              5,990   10,422    4,7S   53,087         .  o     
Resource balance                            -340   4,649      4,607   -9,232
Net income                                  -150   -1.552    -4,157   -4,429
Net current iransfers                        470    2.207     7,0t0    9,780     - 
Current account balance,
before offical capi  transfr                -20   -5.994    -5.764   4.SS1    .3
Financing Items (net)                         20    t.542     2.040    9.,03
Changes In net reserves                        0     -548     3.724   -5.922     J.
Meno:
Reserves including gold (niM  USQ          2,065    9.493    22.843   24,919
Conversion rate (fbeVUSS)                    6.7     12.2      33.5    35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOMS
1S7S    1#S        11"S    1S
(nwVdons US$)                                                                    Cowipoelon d     dt t, n1913 (milL US$)
Total debt outd  and dibured              13,708   40.9S0    93,768   96,193
IBRD                                       436    2.396     9,849    8.766                    G      A
IDA                                      2,809    9,750    17.499   17.616                  so49   9
Total debt service                           822    3.532    13.123   13.742
IBRD                                        89      313     1,714    1,514
IDA                                         24      124       357      364         F                        17499
29280~ ~ ~~~179
Composition of net resource /ws
Offcidai grants                            511      450       556                                            C
Ofcfldal creditors                       1.260    1.424      467        ..                                  2374
Private credtors                            83    2,277       775        ..                                D
Foreign direct invessnt                     85      108     1,300        ..                                  8
Portfdiolequlty                              0        0     1,517        .                        27097
World Bank program
Commitments                                917    2.8S2     1,697    1,725      A - IB8D                   E- BEitr
Disbursements                              531    1,375     1.318    1.592      B-IA    D.Otlwrsuur       F-FPrIvde
Prlndpal repayments                         63      157     1,170    1.074      C- IF                     G -Sohrwm
Net flows                                  467    1.218       149      518    ___
Interest payments                           60      280       901      804
Net rnsfes                                 417      938      -752    -267
Development Economics                                                                                            8/20197



