Report No. PID5678
Project Name                     India-Second Uttar Pradesh Basic Education
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       INPE56038
Borrower                         Government of India
Implementation Agency            Government of Uttar Pradesh
Department of Education
Uttar Pradesh Education for All Board
(EFAB)
Lucknow
Contact: Mr. Govindan Nair
Fax: 522-386481
Appraisal Date                   June 23-27, 1997
Date Prepared                    October 10, 1997
Project Board Date               December 2, 1997
Project Objectives. The proposed project builds on the achievements
of and the experience gained from the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education
Project (UPBEP, Cr. 2509-IN). It would assist the government of
Uttar Pradesh to address the shortages of education facilities and
staff caused by the unexpected surge in enrollments in the 12
districts where UPBEP I is currently being implemented, and create
an environment where the progress in improving the quality of
education can be sustained. Key objectives are (i) increasing the
enrollment capacity of the education system; and (ii) increasing
student learning achievement. Key indicators of project performance
would be trends in enrollment and drop-out rates, especially of
girls and SC students; and (ii) achievement scores with respect to
reading and math by gender and SC. By the end of the project GOUP
would have established the capacity to enroll all 6-10 years old
and 75 percent of the 11-13 years old in all the districts covered
by UPBEP I and offer to the 6 million children enrolled in these
schools an education of significantly improved quality.
Project Description. The proposed project will have four
components: (i) construction of about 11,000 primary and upper
primary classrooms; (ii) recruitment of about 16,000 additional
teachers; (iii) training of the newly recruited teachers; and (iv)
provision of materials to the newly opened schools. In addition,
about 5000 new classrooms and 2150 new teachers will also be funded
from unallocated funds in UPBEP I. Center-based training and
school-based support to the new teachers will also be provided by
the staff of the District Institutes of Education and Training
(DIET) and the Block and Cluster Resource Centers established under
UPBEP I.



Project Implementation. The proposed project will be implemented in
the 12 districts currently covered by UPBEP I. The agency
responsible for the implementation of UPBEP I, the UP Basic Shiksha
Parishad, would also manage the implementation of the proposed
project. Classroom locations have been selected on the basis of an
analysis of population and enrollment patterns and village level
micro plans. Project supervision would be twice a year in
conjunction with the supervision of UPBEP I and the Second District
Primary Education Project. Project implementation completion would
coincide with UPBEP I.
Project Cost and Financing. The estimated total project cost of
$75.7 million would be financed by an IDA credit of $59.4 million
and a contribution of GOUP of $16.3 million equivalent including
all taxes.
Environmental and Social Aspects. No environmental aspects are
anticipated. The special needs of girls, SC and ST children and
other children with special needs are being addressed with programs
that are already being implemented with support from UPBEP I.
Several NGOs are involved in the piloting of these programs.
Children that would enroll in the schools and classrooms
established by the proposed project would also be potential
beneficiaries of these programs.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending October 24, 1997.
- 2 -



