Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3013 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Second Basic Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
and
UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE LIYE SIKSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD
Dated March 3, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3013 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and the STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by its Governor (Uttar 
Pradesh) and UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE LIYE SIKSHA PARIYOJANA PARISHAD (EFAPB).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
forty-three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 43,700,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble thereto and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each of Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB declare their commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall jointly and severally carry out the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, and education practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
Uttar Pradesh shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to EFAPB as 
a grant for the purposes of carrying out the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to the Association not later than 
six 
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Association and 
Uttar Pradesh, a plan for 
the future operation of the 
physical facilities financed under the 
Credit; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Uttar Pradesh on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance by each of them of its respective obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by each of them 
of its respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices their operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of activities related to the Project, and, with 
respect to Uttar Pradesh, of the departments or agencies of Uttar Pradesh responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
Page  3
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such 
year, certified copies of the report of such audit by said 
auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof, as 
the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
       248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary to the Government
Page  4
   of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow, India
Telex:
535259
For Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Siksha Pariyojana Parishad:
Chairman
Uttar Pradesh Sabhee Ke Liye Siksha Pariyojana Parishad
Telex:
535259
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as the 
Chief Secretary shall designate in writing, and on behalf of EFAPB may be taken or 
executed by the Chairman of its Executive Committee or such other person or persons as 
the Chairman shall designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh and EFAPB shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
UTTAR PRADESH SABHEE KE LIYE SIKSHA 
  PARIYOJANA PARISHAD
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
Page  5
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract and works 
estimated to cost more than $20,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works, Community Participation and Force Account
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
overall aggregate amount not to exceed $23,800,000 equivalent:
(a)
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the 
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the 
works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully; or
(b)
may be carried out through communities in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association; or
(c) 
work which meets the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, may 
be carried out, with the Association’s prior approval, by force account in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Teacher grants and school improvement grants up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,900,000 equivalent may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  6
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost $300,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not 
governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for materials development and training under Part B of the Project 
which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for materials development and training under Part B of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
Page  7
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
Institutional Aspects 
1.
Uttar Pradesh shall establish and maintain a separate and adequately staffed 
unit within EFAPB for implementation of both UPBEP I and the Project. 
2.
Uttar Pradesh shall establish and maintain VECs in all villages where the 
Project is carried out. 
Teacher Deployment 
3.
Uttar Pradesh shall implement a program of teacher deployment in accordance with 
the current relevant state norms to improve the student-teacher ratio yearly. 
Training Coordinator 
4.
By March 31, 1998, Uttar Pradesh shall appoint a training coordinator in each 
district Project office. 
Construction of Schools 
5.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that schools provided under Part A of the Project are 
constructed and established through VECs in accordance with the arrangements 
established under UPBEP I. 
Gender, Tribal People 
6.
Uttar Pradesh shall implement the Project in accordance with strategies 
acceptable to the Association for improving primary education of female students.
7.
Uttar Pradesh shall implement the Project in any tribal area (as designated by 
Uttar Pradesh in accordance with applicable state laws) in accordance with procedures 
and delivery strategies satisfactory to the Association. 
Project Supervision, Monitoring and Review 
8.
Without limitation to the generality of any other provision of this Agreement, 
supervision of the Project shall be included in the Joint Supervision Program, and the 
DPEP II mid-term review scheduled for 1999 shall include a review of the 
implementation of the Project.
9.
EFAPB shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
twice a year, prepare a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
Page  8
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section and 
present such report to the joint supervision mission; and
(c)
duly take into account the comments offered by the Association during 
each such joint review in the course of further implementation of the Project.
Resettlement
10.
Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that no involuntary resettlement arises from any use 
of land, or change of land use for the Project, except to the extent that the 
Association agrees in writing prior to such resettlement that the arrangements for 
such involuntary resettlement are satisfactory to the Association.
