Document of
FILE Copy                 The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1921-PO,
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
October 7, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizHation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =          Escudo (Esc)
Esc 1                                   100 centavos
Esc I                         =          US$0.04
Esc 25                        =          US$1.00
Esc 1,000                     =          US$40.00
Esc 1,000,000                 =          US$40,000
*/   Average for 1975.  However, for the first half of
1976 the average rate was 29.08 escudos to
one U.S. dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilogram (kg) = 1,000 grams (gm)   =  2.205 pounds
1 ton (metric:  1,000 kg)     =          0.984 long ton
I meter (m)                   =          3.281 feet
I kilometer (km)      2                  1,000 meters  =   0.624 mil
1 square kilometer (km2)      =          0.386 square mile
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
JAE       =     Junta Autonoma de Estradas
CP              Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICAL WI ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Portugal for the equivalent of US$24 million to help fi-
nance a highway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Current Economic Situation and Pro-
spects of Portugal" (No. 730a-PO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on July 1, 1975. Discussions on economic policies were held in Portugal in
February and May 1976 and an Updating Economic Mission visited Portugal in
July/August 1976. Its findings are reflected below. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        The five years preceding the revolution of April 1974, were years
of rapid growth for Portugal. GDP increased at an average rate of 7 percent
per annum with industry and construction growing at 10 percent and 12.5 per-
cent respectively. Investment levels were high - 21 percent of GNP on aver-
age during the period. Foreign investment was attracted to Portugal by the
low labor costs, substantial incentives to industry, a political climate
of apparent stability, and support for the private sector. The rapid growth
in western Europe during the period contributed to an increase of 9 percent
per annum in Portugal's exports (though nearly a quarter of the total went
to the colonies), while the balance of payments also benefitted from large
numbers of tourists and the remittances from the huge migrant labor force of
Portuguese in northern Europe. By 1974, migrant workers totaled over one
million, or the equivalent of one-third of Portugal's labor force. As a
result, despite the costs of maintaining a large colonial army, the balance
of payments showed substantial surpluses, with accumulated foreign exchange
reserves reaching the high level of $1.7 billion and a stock of gold of about
27.8 million ounces, at end 1973.
4.        Yet the rapid growth concealed a number of fundamental weaknesses.
Value added in agriculture declined during the period 1968 to 1973 at a rate
of 1 percent per annum partly as a result of the emphasis given to industri-
alization and the exodus of the rural labor force. The heavy protection given
to domestic manufacturers, together with easy access to credit at low interest
rates boosted private sector profits and savings, but at the expense of equi-
table income distribution. By 1973, the bottom 50 percent of households were
receiving only 14 percent of total income. Economic power was concentrated in
the hands of a small number of powerful companies and individuals. Significant
sections of the population, including particularly the laborers on large agri-
cultural estates of the south of the country often farmed by absentee land-
lords, had failed to benefit much from the high growth rate.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  1
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Recent Developments
5.        Among the major objectives of the revolution of April 1974, was the
transfer of economic power from the large private industrialists and land-
lords to the state, and the redistribution of income to the workers in both
the rural and urban areas. The first seventeen months saw five changes in
government and conditions of political and economic life which were near to
chaotic. During the period ending September 1975, a substantial transforma-
tion of the institutional framework and ownership pattern of the Portuguese
economy took place. There was the nationalization of the banking system, the
power sector 1/, and insurance, and the take-over by the Government of some
of the large industrial groups and major producers in industries such as
steel, cement, chemicals and tobacco. Rural workers took over the large farms
in the south of the country and part of this was legalized through the passing
of land reform legislation. There were similar take-overs in a few private
enterprises in other sectors and the overall effect of this was to establish a
quite different relationship between management and labor, which perhaps in-
evitably was initially characterized by indiscipline, absenteeism and lowered
productivity. One of the most important changes was the decision to give
independence to Angola and Mocambique. This meant a substantial reorientation
of Portuguese society, most importantly through the arrival of large groups of
returnees - perhaps as many as 800,000 to the present - nearly 10 percent of
Portugal's population.
6.        While this restructuring was taking place, the economy was being
severely affected by the impact of the world recession. This had a major
impact on the balance of payments through a fall in the value of exports by
14 percent, of worker's remittances by 14 percent and earnings from tourism
by 27 percent. Of course the unstable situation in Portugal was also an im-
portant factor in these declines, as production in some export industries
fell, deliveries became uncertain, and migrant workers and potential tourists
were affected adversely. Nevertheless with almost two-thirds of Portuguese
exports going to the European Communities (EC) and the European Free Trade
Association (EFTA) recession in those countries was a major blow to the ca-
pacity of the Portuguese economy to weather the difficulties it was facing.
During 1974 and 1975 Portugal lost almost all its foreign exchange reserves.
About $1.5 billion was used during the period with gross reserves reaching
about $400 million at the end of 1975, equivalent to one month of imports.
However, there still remains a gold stock of about 27.7 million ounces valued
at $3 billion at current market prices. The gold stock serves as a safety
net which Portugal is using as collateral for borrowing purposes.
1/ Foreign shareholders were affected only in the power sector and progress
is now being made in providing compensation. The July 7, 1976 Decree
Law sets forth the method to be used in the valuation of nationalized
assets and assigns to the Minister of Finance responsibility for recom-
mending to the Council of Ministers the terms and conditions of compensa-
tion. Studies are under way to properly value the assets.



-3-
7.        The social unrest and political uncertainties in Portugal during
1974 and 1975 resulted in a fall in the rate of growth of GDP in 1974 and a
decline in real GDP of 3 percent in 1975. Investment by the private sector
stopped almost completely in the face of the nationaliza.ions, the aggressive
role played by trade unions, and very large increases in real wages. Inevit-
ably the revolution gave r:ise to the expectation of a substantial upward jump
in living standards for most of the working population. To satisfy this, the
successive governments were forced to protect the increase in nominal wages
by subsidizing the prices of essential commodities and instituting general
price controls. These subsidies, combined with higher salaries for civil
servants, expenditure on returnees and an attempt by the goverrment to take
up some of the slack caused by the shortfall in private investment, resulted
in the budget deficit rising from $400 million in 1974 to $1.2 billion in
1975. This took place in spite of a reduction of 42 percent in military ex-
penditures. The rate of inflation was 25 percent in 1974 and 15 percent in
1975, with the latter reduction only taking place because of the fixing
of prices at levels which probably cannot be sustained in the future.
8.        Perhaps the most worrying result of the events of 1974 and 1975 is
that they have produced a level of unemployment of the order of 15 percent of
the work force and substantially increased the degree of under-employment in
the rural areas as well. The causes of the unemployment problem are clear;
first and foremost, was the large number of returnees from the colonies;
second, the demobilization following the end of the colonial wars; third, the
overall low level of economic activity and particularly the shortfall in in-
vestment and construction; fourth, the reduced demand for Portuguese migrant
workers in northern Europe. Unemployment at this level obviously poses ser-
ious threats for Portugal's continued political stability, quite aside from
the personal hardship it involves for many of the population.
The Governments Response
9.        The revolution had brought obvious gains in reforming the structure
of the Portuguese economy. Yet in combination with the world recession it
also resulted in a perilous balance of payments position, large budgetary
deficits, severe inflation, and high levels of unemployment. The challenge
was to preserve the important elements of the new economic order, while
gradually restoring the economy to a path combining growth with increased
stability. The sixth provisional Government, which came to power in September
1975, took a series of austerity measures which are described below. These
measures represent an important first step in dealing with the economic
problems. In April 1976 the new constitution was implemented through the
election of a legislature and in July, the President of the Republic was
elected. The new government took office in late-July and immediately committ-
ed itself to going beyond these measures, and developing a program to re-
establish stability and growth. It would however, be unrealistic to expect
that at this early stage, the new government could have settled on its prior-
ities and evolved the delicate combination of measures which economic recovery
will require.



- 4 -
10.       Perhaps the most important steps taken during the past year relate
to the objective of containiLng domestic consumption. At end 1975 heavy sales
taxes were imposed on most commodities, ranging from 10 to 40 percent, while
the tax on new cars and some alcoholic beverages was almost doubled. Taxes
on income from urban property were increased from the previous 12 percent
rate up to 20 percent, and taxes on income from agriculture were raised from
10 to 15 percent. Then in early 1976, prices of some important consumer
items were raised (e.g. gasoline and fuel oil by 35 to 55 percent, public
transport by 20 to 60 percent, telephione rates by 40 percent, postal rates by
40 percent, cement by 28 percent and electricity by about 24 percent). In
1976, the Government set up a national council to develop a prices and in-
comes policy.  It has already been announced that starting January 1977, annual
payroll increases will be limited to a maximum of 15 percent and supplementary
incomes and fringe benefits will be lowered. Where annual bonuses exceed an
equivalent of about $160 the excess will be paid in treasury bills. In
addition, schemes are being prepared for compulsory savings contributions and
larger contributions by empLoyers and workers to the social security system.
Steps will also be taken to keep a tight rein on government expenditures.
Together with the monetary policy w4hich is being followed, these measures
form a useful beginning towards the objective of lowering the inflation rate
to about 10 percent within the next three years.
11.       The measures to reduce domestic inflation will also improve the
prospects for dealing with the balance of payments problem.    The Government
has taken a number of direct measures. Surcharges on imports were imposed in
May 1975 and have since been increased. The exchange rate was permitted to
depreciate by about 14 percent during the first half of 1976. Special cred-
it facilities for exports at concessionary interest rates have been intro-
duced.  The Goverament has also negotiated trade concessions for Portuguese
exports with the EC and EFTA. In Jttne 1976 a protocol was signed with the EC
which (a) increased the ceiling on selected Portuguese exports (to the EC)
such as textiles, (b) abolished customns duti-  on many industrial imports into
the EC from Portugal with effect from July 1976, (c) reduced tariffs on some
agricultural products entering EC mackets from Portugal, most importantly on
certain wines, and (d) allowed Portugal to re-establish tariffs on industrial
imports from the EC to protect its own industries. For the longer-term the
Portuguese Government has expressed its desire to negotiate membership in the
EC. Furthermore, Portugal has recently become a member of the Council of
Europe. The return of stable production conditions should assist in the
growth of Portuguese exports. Tourism has already begun to revive as the
political climate has improved. Foreign tourists, in the early months of
1976, have increased over the same period in 1975. To encourage remittances
the Government established special foreign currency deposits in December 1975,
with exchange guarantees and 'ree convertibility.
12.       From a policy point of view, reducing the rate of unemployment is
likely to prove the most difficult of Portugal's immediate objectives. The
key is to generate an adequate level of investment. Yet private sector con-
fidence has been shaken by the events of the past two years. The very posi-
tive assurances given by the new Prime Minister, Mr. Mario Soares, in his re-
cent speeches are encouraging althougn both domestic and foreign private in-
vestment can only be expected to revive gradually over the next few years.



Nor is the public sector in a position to take up the slack. Aside from the
obvious resource constraints facing the public sector, it does not yet have
the institutional and managerial capability to launch the kind of investment
program which would raise employment levels and increase productivity and ex-
ports. The public sector before the revolution performed mainly a regulatory
function. Its transformation to providing the major entrepreneurial role in
the country will not take place overnight. Strenuous efforts are being under-
taken to provide the institutional strengthening which is needed and to pre-
pare suitable investment programs, and the Government has budgeted for a sub-
stantial increase in public investment over past levels. Increased employ-
ment in the immediate future however, will probably depend on special schemes
particularly in the housing and construction sector. Recognizing this, the
Government has introduced special incentives for private home construction
and embarked on a number of low-income housing projects in the public sector.
13.       Achieving the objectives of reduced inflation, an improved balance
of payments and higher employment, would only be possible in the context of a
substantial reduction in the growth rate of consumption and real wages. The
elements of such a policy would have to consider seriously the scope for
increasing voluntary savings and a more comprehensive incomes policy including
selective price decontrol. The balance of payments problem will also require
that consideration be given to measures designed to promote exports, remit-
tances, and earnings from tourism, while reducing the demand for imports. The
new Government's initial statements and measures provide clear indications
that it recognises the urgency of the situation. While the short-term issues
of economic management inevitably dominate its current thinking, the new
Government is also turning its attention to sectoral policies which will lay
the basis for longer-term development.
14.       To enumerate briefly the important sectoral issues:   in agriculture,.
land reforms need to be implemented quickly and supported in such a way as to
insure that they make a positive contribution to production. The Government
has placed great priority on measures in this area including returning lands,
which were not taken over according to the land reform legislation, to their
former owners. In addition the whole range of investments and supporting
services in the sector which were notably weak in the past, have to be
strengthened. In industry, there is understandable urgency in getting new
investment under way. There is, however, a risk that this new public in-
vestment will take the form of large capital-intensive projects which may
prove a burden to the economy in the longer-run. In this respect large-scale
investment projects initiated in the early 1970's merit careful re-thinking
and analysis. The objectives of increasing exports and reducing unemployment
are critical to the evolution of a sound industrial structure. In education,
a sector in which Portugal has lagged badly behind the rest of Europe, a
fundamental decision will have to be taken whether priority should be given to
a quantitative expansion, or whether the major efforts should be to raise the
quality of the system.   In transport and energy the important issues relate to
the evolution of rational pricing policies and whether Portugal can re-orient
itself from its dependence on imported petroleum to supply its energy needs.
There is ample evidence that the Government has these issues under study and
is preparing programs which are responsive to the problems. A medium-term
development plan (through 1980) is expected to be ready in draft by May 1977.



15.       The next five years will be a testing time for the Portuguese
economy. At best income is likely to increase slowly over the period.
In the short-run the Portuguese have made substantial gains in the distribu-
tion of income and in the increased sense of participation by the majority of
the people in economic and political life. In the longer run the Portuguese
economy has good prospects for achieving high rates of economic growth through
exporting manufactures based on the comparative advantage of its efficient,
and by European standards, still relatively low-cost labor force. The new
government has demonstrated its awareness of the problems and has committed
itself to preparing and implementing measures which will progressively restore
stable economic growth.
External Assistance
16.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have responded to Portugal's
need for external assistance, both for balance of payments support and long-
term project loans. A total of about $400 million was received in 1975 and
in the first half of 1976 over US$1.0 billion was committed. With gold as
collateral, Portugal obtained two standby credits from the Bank for Interna-
tional Settlement of US$250 million each in 1975 and 1976, and the first of
these was rolled over in June 1976. The Deutsche Bundesbank extended a loan
of US$250 million in February 1976 and joined other Central Banks in offering
a standby credit of US$70 million in July 1976. The IMF has so far extended
about US$200 million in oil facilities and compensatory financing and the
Bank approved a US$36.0 million equivalent loan to the power sector in June
1976. The European Communities (EC) have also, out of an emergency aid fund
of about US$180 million, extended loans of about US$100 million through the
EIB and expect to approve the projects covering the remaining US$80 million
during the next few months. The EC have already announced additional aid of
approximately US$50 million a year for five years, starting January 1978.
The United States approved loans amounting to US$43 million in 1975 and US$67
million in 1976 and expects an additional US$88 million to be approved for
1977-78 during the second half of this year or early next year. The Federal
Republic of Germany and Norway have committed US$27 million and US$36 million,
respectively, and the Netherlands about US$4 million. The major bilateral
donors have shown interest in continuing their aid programs for at least four
to five years coinciding with the proposed medium-term Development Plan of
Portugal.
Creditworthiness
17.       The direct official debt and debt guaranteed by the government was
about US$930 million at end June 1976. The debt service ratio in 1975 was
about 5.5 percent and would be lower for 1976. Calculations on the basis of
conservative assumptions concerning export growth, scale of borrowing and
credit terms show that the country's debt service ratio is not likely to go
much beyond 10 percent. In the light of these facts, the efforts already
made by government and the prospects for growth, Portugal can be considered
creditworthy for Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PORTUGAL
18.       There have been six previous loans to Portugal, totalling US$93.5
million equivalent, all for assisting the power sector. Three thermal power
loans were made to Empresa Termoelectrica Portuguesa (ETP) (one in 1963, one
in 1965 and one in 1966) and two hydropower loans to Hidro-Electrica do Doura
(RED) (one in 1963 and one in 1966). All projects were successfully completed
and are now in operation. A sixth loan for power to finance a portion of the
new company Electricidade de Portugal--Empresa Publica's investment program
for 1976-1986, was approved by the Executive Directors on June 24, 1976 and
signed on September 24, 1976 (signing was delayed so that the newly established
Borrowers Auditing Commission could approve the borrowing). Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of August 31, 1976.
19.       In October 1974, the new Portuguese Administration requested a re-
sumption of Bank activities to provide support, both financial and technical
for the establishment and implementation of a sound development program. To
respond positively to the Portuguese request, the Bank's task was, initially,
to establish a working relationship with the policy makers, build up a data
base through economic discussions, and to analyze the changes in Government
policies described in Part I of this report. Beginning in early 1975, we
therefore initiated regular economic discussions with the Portuguese govern-
ment to assist in identifying the major economic constraints and policy alter-
natives. We have subsequently established a satisfactory dialogue based on
frequent visits to review the economic situation and policies.
20.       We simultaneously started discussions with the Portuguese govern-
ment about formulating a program of assistance. These discussions made it
clear that some of the more important sectors--such as agriculture and edu-
cation--required studies and basic policy decisions which would take consider-
able time before projects could be identified and prepared. In building up
our pipeline of projects we have recognized the difficult situation prevail-
ing in Portugal and adopted a two phased approach. First, to provide timely
support for the government's efforts at economic stabilization and to help
with the immediate foreign exchange requirements, we have initially focused
our efforts on projects in sectors such as power, transportation and industry,
that could be prepared relatively early and would allow fairly rapid disburse-
ments. After the proposed highway loan, we hope to assist in the expansion
and modernization of the industrial sector through a possible loan to a devel-
opment finance company and contribute to the rehabilitation of the railways,
for which a study is to be financed by this proposed loan. Second, for the
longer term, we have, in consultation with the government, begun a series
of sector reviews in water supply, agriculture and education. These sector
reviews will, during this fiscal year, provide the knowledge of sectoral
problems and priorities to lay the basis for future lending activities. In
the longer term, our assistance is, therefore, expected to be largely con-
centrated in agriculture and rural development, promotion of education, and
improvement of water supply and sewerage facilities.



21.       In short, in its assistance to Portugal, the Bank is making an at-
tempt to respond to a unique situation. Although per capita income is rela-
tively high for a developing country, Portugal remains among the poorest
of all European countries. It has initiated a genuine re-structuring of its
economy in many positive ways, and as the inevitable concomitant of such a
rapid transformation, is now faced with serious problems of short-term eco-
nomic management as highlighted in Part I. External assistance is impera-
tive to substantially improve the prospects for successfully dealing with
those problems. -The Bank can therefore play an important role in providing
Portugal with financial assistance and reviewing its progress on macro-
economic policies. Its most important contribution will, however, lie in
helping Portugal to evolve the new institutions and reform the old ones, and
to develop the detailed sectoral programs and policies, which Portugal will
need during the coming five years as a basis for its future growth.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
22.       Portugal's transport system reflects the country's economic history
and geography. A narrow coastal country without much hinterland, Portugal
has traditionally looked to the sea as the transport mode for external trade.
This historical feature has.determined the orientation of the transport net-
work which is concentrated along the western coastal plain, particularly the
316 km long corridor between the cities of Lisbon and Oporto in which most of
the country's economic activity is concentrated (See Map). The transport net-
work outside this corridor is considerably less dense in the predominantly
agricultural south and the sparsely populated eastern mountainous region where
the terrain bordering Spain is much more difficult and economic activity much
less developed. Nonetheless the transport network does provide a reasonable
access to these regions. The port and airport facilities are adequate for
current traffic, while the railways and roads are generally below standard for
present traffic requirements.
Policy, Planning and Coordination
23.       The Ministry of Transportation and Communications is responsible for
overall transport policy and planning, and for regulation of the transport
modes--roads, railways, shipping and civil aviation. Road construction, main-
tenance and investment planning is the responsibility of the Junta Autonoma de
Estradas (JAE) (described below in para 33) which reports to the Ministry of
Public Works. The railway company, the Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro
Portugueses (CP), was nationalized in 1975 and is responsible to the Ministry
of Transportation and Communications. In addition, the merchant marine and
the national airline are also under the direction of this Ministry. The
Ministry of Transportation and Communications has yet to become fully effec-
tive in terms of administering, coordinating and planning development of the
sector.



-9-
24.       For many years the need to establish coordinated policy making,
proper planning of investments, and appropriate regulation of the transport
sector has been recognized. In the early 1960's a special group (Gabinete de
Estudios e Planeamento dos Transportes Terrestres - GEPTT) was formed in the
Ministry to initiate coordinated planning for land transportation. The group
did some commendable work but (as the Bank pointed out in 1968) its efforts
fell short. The planning should have been based on economic studies of the
demand for transport service with the traffic flows considered in terms of
competing modes. -Furthermore, planning suffered because none of the modal
agencies was able to prepare fully detailed plans based on adequate economic
analysis. In 1968 the Ministry of Communications requested a consultant firm
to CP to analyze future transport demands and traffic flows as a whole.
Unfortunately, the scope was not broadened and only studies dealing with the
railways were carried out. These studies are no longer applicable to present
transport needs of Portugal. In the early 1970's the Ministry of Public Works
also retained a consultant firm, under OECD financing, to assist in the
preparation of a highway investment plan. The highway plan (paragraph 33) was
completed in 1973 but clearer priorities for road construction, maintenance,
and rehabilitation need to be developed since the 1973 study is out of date
and did not consider competing modes. This lack of national transport policies
has resulted in inefficiencies. In addition, the Ministry of Communications
was not able to cope with its responsibility for regulation of road and rail
services because of inadequate staffing and support. Their ad hoc attempts at
regulation created a situation in which transport regulations lack consistency
and are often out of date.
25.       Recognizing these deficiencies in transport regulation and multi-
modal planning, the government in 1974 announced its intention to launch a
program for a systematic overhaul of the national transport system. The ob-
jective was to make it more efficient and effective. This ambitious program
presupposes (1) an in-depth review of all transport policies and regulations,
(2) the preparation of a master plan for the transport sector, and (3) arrange-
ments for improving coordination among modes. To accomplish this the govern-
ment has asked the Bank to provide technical assistance under the proposed
loan to help the Ministry of Transportation and Communications to achieve
its objectives of a coordinated, long range transport plan with special as-
sistance to the JAE and CP to plan the highway and railway subsectors, respec-
tively. The overall aim of the proposed assistance would be to help the gov-
ernment develop a process for formulating national policies and plans for the
transportation system based on economic priorities.
Railways
26.       The network of CP consists of 2,804 route-km of broad-gauge (i.e.,
Spanish gauge) track and 759 route-km of meter-gauge track. Of the broad-
gauge lines, approximately 400 route-km are double track and electrified to
provide corridor-type service between Lisbon and Oporto and suburban commuter
services to those cities. The main line between Lisbon and Oporto has recent-
ly been rehabilitated, but much of the remainder of the track in the system



- 10 -
is in less than satisfactory condition due to deferred maintenance and renewal.
Likewise, much of the rolling stock in use on other than the main line and
commuter lines is over age and in need of replacement. Most of the locomotive
fleet is diesel powered. Poor condition of physical assets, deficiencies in
organization, planning, and marketing, coupled with low quality service have
inhibited the capability and efficiency of rail transport. Railway freight
traffic has remained essentially stagnant at about 4 million tons and 800 mil-
lion ton-km a year during the last decade. Railway passenger traffic, 80 per-
cent of which is-commuter traffic, grew from 2,155 million passenger-kilom-
eters in 1963 to about 3,600 million passenger-kilometers in 1974, and is cur-
rently growing at an annual rate of about 8 percent. Railway passenger traf-
fic, however, accounts for only about 11 percent of the total land passenger
traffic.
27.       CP has experienced large deficits in past years, and despite a fare
increase of 50 percent in mid-1975, current revenues cover only about 60 per-
cent of working expenditures. CP's financial difficulty is largely due to
the government's policy of keeping fares and rates low but was aggravated by
the sharp increases (50 percent) in labor costs in 1974. The government has
been providing financial assistance to enable CP to cover its current deficit
and to honor a major part of its financial obligations, but for the remainder
of its financial needs CP has had to rely on commercial credit.
28.       If CP is to achieve financial viability the government and CP re-
cognize that some major reforms would have to be instituted. For this pur-
pose CP has undertaken in the past some studies to improve marketing and the
information system, to determine the profitability of certain lines and serv-
ices, and to modernize selected installations. CP also realizes the need for
further preparation of comprehensive investment, financing and action plans
on which to base improvement of the railway system.
Ports and Aviation
29.       Portugal has 19 ports.   Lisbon and Oporto, the two major ports
handle about 18 million tons of cargo annually. These ports have administra-
tions with a considerable degree of autonomy and operate with a reasonable
degree of efficiency; they are also able to finance part of their investments
from their own resources. With investments under way or to be started soon
the ports are expected to have adequate capacity for traffic in the immediate
future. A new petroleum port and oil refinery is being constructed at Sines,
about 80 km south of Lisbon. There are also plans to build a new industrial
complex at Sines and to connect the area with Lisbon by a new railway line.
30.       The three airports capable of handling jet planes are at Lisbon,
Oporto, and Faro. The latter is in the Algarve region, which is the country's
main tourist area on the southern coast. Airport facilities are generally
adequate for current traffic, although domestic air travel has grown rapidly
in recent years and some upgrading of national airport facilities may be
necessary in the near future. The national airline, Transport Aeros Portugal
(TAP) and a subsidiary, Transportes Aeros Continentais (TAC), operate do-
mestically within Portugal.



Roads
31.       The road network of about 42,000 km comprises 18,000 km of national
roads and 24,000 km of municipal and local roads. The network covers most
parts of the country adequately since the government, in 1959, began imple-
mentation of a program to provide road access to all villages of more than
100 inhabitants. Regarding quality of the roads, however, the network is de-
ficient in many respects since the roads evolved from the gradual upgrading
of roads which were not originally designed for motor vehicles. During the
past twenty years only about 1,500 km of newly designed roads have been con-
structed and the greater part of the network no longer meets the demands of
modern, fast highway traffic. Except for 66 km of 4-lane divided highways,
all the roads of the national network are of 2 lane standard. Only about 7
percent of the national network including the 4 lane divided highway has a
road width of 7 m or more; of the remaining-roads about 90 percent are be-
tween 5 and 6 m wide. Expenditures for investment in and maintenance of the
network, expressed in constant prices, barely increased during the decade
1963-1973. The result is that many roads have not been resurfaced in over 10
years or suffer from poor shoulders and drainage causing deterioration. Also,
due to inadequate pavement structure and the lack of maintenance many paved
roads (which comprise 96 percent of the national network) show signs of dis-
tress.
32.       Passenger traffic has expanded rapidly in recent years; between
1968-73, total passenger traffic by road (passenger-km) grew at an annual
rate of about 12 percent, largely as a result of an estimated 80 percent
growth of the vehicle fleet in that period. Passenger cars account currently
for about three-quarters of total passenger traffic by land and buses for
about 15 percent (railways account for the rest). Country-wide traffic
counts, which are carried out every five years, indicate that the highest
road traffic loads occur in a 50 km wide strip along the west coast between
Setubal in the south and Viana do Castelo in the north. Traffic in the
districts of Lisbon and Oporto which are within this strip represent about
half of the total Portuguese highway traffic in terms of vehicle movements.
Given the intense economic development in the region between Oporto and
Lisbon it is probable that these patterns of traffic concentrations will
continue.
33.       Highway Administration.   JAE is responsible for the administration
of the national road network. Although it is under the Ministry of Public
Works, it operates as a semi-autonomous agency. Its major administrative,
technical and planning departments are located in its Lisbon headquarters.
However, for the most part execution of civil works has been delegated to
four regional officies, which in turn are subdivided into 18 districts. At
present, JAE largely bases its investment planning on a 10-year plan devel-
oped in 1973. This plan needs to be updated and coordinated with other
transport planning in order for JAE to make the most rational decisions on
which road sections should have priority for construction and maintenance.



- 12 -
34.       Financing.   Highway expenditures are financed from the general bud-
get, except for a 4-lane 25 km. expressway near Lisbon which is being financ-
ed by an international consortium from toll charges. Taxes on motor trans-
port are high. For example, in December 1975, the retail price for premium
gasoline was equivalent to US$2.65 per gallon; this was among the highest in
Western Europe. The general budget in 1973 derived about 9 percent of its
revenue from road user charges. Sixty percent of the revenue from user
charges is absorbed by the general budget. The remaining 40 percent is allo-
cated among three special funds: (a) a fund for land transport which is used
mainly to subsidize the operations of the railways but also finances urban
transportation projects in large cities and research and planning for land
transportation systems; (b) an export development fund; and (c) a fund to
develop tourism. The Government has estimated that the total revenue from
taxes and other charges on road transport amounted to about Esc. 5,730 mil-
lion in 1973, while total expenditures for national and local roads amounted
to about Esc. 1,200 million in the same year (or about 21 percent of the total
revenues).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       This project was identified in May/June, 1975; preappraised in
September/October 1975; and appraised in December, 1975 with a follow up mis-
sion in March, 1976. Negotiations took place in August 1976. The Portuguese
Delegation was led by Dr. Antonio Labisa of the Ministry of Finance and in-
cluded representatives of the Ministry of Transportation and Communications
and the Junta Autonoma de Estradas.
Project Description
36.       This would be the first Bank loan to Portugal in the transport sec-
tor. Its aim would be to assist in developing a national program of road re-
habilitation and maintenance and building up the capacity for implementing
it, and laying the foundation for coordinated transport planning. The proj-
ect is summarized in Annex III and described in detail in the Appraisal Re-
port entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Project - Portugal", dated October 7,
1976 (R1201-PO) which is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. The project consists of:
(a)  the first 3 years of a 5 year rehabilitation program for.
national roads in the Lisbon region;
(b)  provision of equipment for routine road maintenance for
national roads and supporting workshops in the Lisbon
region;
(c)  construction of a 14.3 km bypass, around the city of
Covilha;
(d)  technical assistance and training for improving road admin-
istration and planning, railway planning, and multi-modal
transportation planning.



- 13 -
37.       Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance.   To safeguard the country's
past highway investment JAE has developed a five-year (1977-81) road rehab-
ilitation and maintenance program for the Lisbon region. The experience
gained in the Lisbon region would be used to strengthen other regional main-
tenance centers throughout the country at a future date. The proposed loan
would finance the first three years of the program, thereby introducing Bank
assistance during the initial stages of the program's development (Schedule
2, Loan Agreement). The rehabilitation of approximately 860 km would develop
the most effective approaches for countrywide application of the rehabilita-
tion program and also build the capabilities of JAE to administer this type of
program. Although roads in the Lisbon region would primarily benefit from the
program, some high priority roads outside the region, with adequate technical
and economic studies would also be included. Studies would be made to justify
the rehabilitation of each road segment covered by the program and submitted
to the Bank for approval (Section 3.02, Loan Agreement). The justification
would require a minimum of 12 percent rate of return for individual road sec-
tions. The project also includes provision of highway maintenance and work-
shop equipment to upgrade routine maintenance of national roads in the Lisbon
region. This would support the JAE in carrying out its plan for strengthening
routine maintenance through the provision of equipment to create self-contained
units for routine maintenance in one region as a model for equipping the other
regional centers.
38.       New Construction.   Although the existing road investment plan needs
updating (para. 33), an obvious priority improvement which should be made
quickly and is economically justified is the building of a 14.3 km by-pass
with access roads around the city of Covilha, in the eastern-central part of
the country, on an important north-south road. The present road, a 19 km na-
tional road of only 5.5-6 m width is a major bottleneck as it passes through
Covilha city along winding and narrow streets unsuitable for trucks and heavy
traffic. The government will acquire the land necessary for the project
roads (Section 3.09, Loan Agreement).
39.       Technical Assistance.   The technical assistance provided under the
loan will not be limited to the highway subsector but will address the trans-
port sector as a whole. Terms of reference for all technical assistance to
be provided under the proposed loan have been discussed and agreed with the
Government. In addition, a "Steering Committee" is being formed by the
Ministry of Transport and Communications to coordinate the activities of the
consultants work on the technical assistance. A total of approximately 30
man-years equivalent of technical assistance at a total cost of about US$3.2
million, including 3 man-years for training, would be provided to JAE, CP,
and the Ministry of Transportation and Communications for these purposes, as
follows:
(a) Highways - At JAE's request, assistance of about 13 man-years
of consultancy services and 3 man-years for training, will
be provided to help improve its highway planning, adminis-
tration and maintenance. Planning experts would assist JAE



- 14 -
to update its 5-year road investment plan, and to formulate
an additional prospective 10-year plan. These plans could
serve as the basis for a possible further highways loan.
Consultants would also assist JAE to: (a) establish a
functional cost accounting system; (b) develop a staffing
and organizational structure for each department; (c) evaluate
recruiting and training requirements; and (d) develop train-
ing programs as needed. Road maintenance would be improved by
assisting JAE to review the present maintenance programs and
budgets and update the general five-year maintenance pro-
gram. In addition six semesters of training in approved
traffic engineering and transportation planning courses for
JAE staff is included under the project (Section 3.10, Loan
Agreement).
(b) Railways - Assistance of about 6 man-years would be pro-
vided to help CP prepare a medium-term railway rehabilitation
plan for 1977-82. The consulting services would include an
in-depth review of the company's present situation in terms
of management, finances, operations, accounting procedures,
and inventory of existing assets. An investigation of the
viability of the entire railway network in the light of
future freight and passenger demand would be made and would
serve as the basis for action plans designed to modernize
and rationalize CP. These plans could serve as a basis for
a possible first railway loan which would finance a portion
of the six-year investment plan.
(c) Ministry of Transportation and Communications - The Ministry
of Transportation and Communications (paras. 23-24) would be
provided with about 8 man-years of consultancy services to
assist it to develop and periodically update a 15-year na-
tional transport master plan. The consulting services pro-
vided would help the Ministry to review present transport
planning criteria and to formulate a comprehensive, inter-
modal transport master plan. The Ministry of Transporta-
tion and Communications, JAE and CP Portuguese staff would
carry out the planned studies with the assistance of the con-
sultants provided under the loan. The Government agreed that
qualified counterpart Portuguese staff would be made available
by the three agencies (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The total cost of the project including contingencies is US$49.0
million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of about US$24.0 mil-
lion equivalent. The project cost estimate includes about US$5.4 million in
taxes. The foreign exchange component of the project has been estimated on
the assumption that all equipment contracts will be won by foreign suppliers.



- 15 -
However, Portuguese manufacturers are capable of providing some of the required
equipment and are expected to participate in the bidding for these items; the
local cost of the project would be increased by a maximum of $500,000 in the
unlikely case that Portuguese manufacturers win all of the contracts for which
they may bid.
41.       The proposed loan of US$24.0 million would finance the estimated
foreign exchange costs. The government has undertaken to provide the US$19.6
million, exclusive of taxes, required to meet the local costs of the project
(Sections 3.01 (c), 4.03, Loan Agreement). The proceeds of the loan would be
passed on to the JAE (US$22.6 million), the Ministry of Transportation and
Communications (US$0.8 million), and CP (US$0.6 million).
Project Execution
42.       JAE would be responsible for executing the major part of the proj-
ect. It would: (a) prepare and award bids to pavement contractors to carry
out road rehabilitation under the program in the Lisbon region, (b) carry out
through its own regional and district offices routine maintenance in the
Lisbon region, (c) prepare and award bids for the maintenance equipment,
(d) prepare and award bids for and supervise the construction of the Covilha
bypass and access roads, (e) work with consultants provided under the project's
technical assistance to improve the agency's administration and operations and
to develop highways planning, and (f) arrange for traffic engineering and
transport planning fellowships under the loan. CP and the Ministry of Trans-
portation and Communications would be responsible, respectively, for the tech-
nical assistance for railway and inter-modal transport planning provided by
the loan (Section 3.01, Loan Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Road rehabilitation under the rehabilitation program would be car-
ried out by paving contractors who would be invited to bid on various road
sections designated for rehabilitation. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures which ad-
vertise invitations to bid in the local press and allow foreign contractors
to bid (Section B, Schedule 4, Loan Agreement). The application of local
procedures is appropriate in this case because the relatively minor indivi-
dual paving contracts and the spread of the rehabilitation work over about 80
road sections during the three-year period, make it most unlikely that for-
eign contractors would be interested in this work. There are ample qualified
local paving contractors who are expected to compete for these works. The
contract for the construction of the new Covilha by-pass and access roads
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding according
to the Bank guidelines for procurement.
44.       Equipment for the maintenance program would also be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding according to the Bank guidelines.
For purposes of bid evaluation, domestic manufacturers will be given a pre-
ference of 15 percent or the customs tariff, whichever is lower. The 30
man-years of technical assistance to be financed by the loan are expected to
be expatriate and would be secured under procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



Disbursement
45.       The Bank loan would be disbursed over a 3-year period on the fol-
lowing basis: 40 percent of the total expenditure, representing the esti-
mated foreign exchange cost, of the road rehabilitation program; 100 percent
of the cost of imported equipment or 100 percent of the ex-factory cost, ex-
cluding taxes, of locally manufactured equipment, for the routine main-
tenance program In the Lisbon region; 33 percent of total expenditures for
construction of the Covilha by-pass road and access roads representing the
estimated foreign exchange costs; and 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of technical assistance and fellowships.
Environmental Impact
46.       The Covilha bypass road would reduce traffic noise, air pollution
and traffic congestion in the urban area of Covilha. The other project ele-
ments will not have an adverse affect on the environment.
Benefits and Beneficiaries
47.       The overall objective of the technical assistance component of the
proposed project (about 11% of the proposed loan) will be to assist the
Government of Portugal to initiate integrated national transport planning as
a whole and to improve modal transport planning for highways and railways.
This assistance is a critical element of the project since it will help
establish the investment needs of the transport sector and thus provide an
urgently needed basis for remedying the deficiencies in the sector as mention-
ed in paragraphs 23-25, above. The training component would reenforce JAE's
administrative and planning capability.
48.       The proposed road rehabilitation (about 49% of the proposed loan)
would reduce transport costs in, primarily, the Lisbon region. In this re-
gion as in Portugal generally, a number of highways have deteriorated to the
point where they need reconditioning in order to make it practically possible
to maintain them with a "normal" (regular) amount of maintenance effort.
Some of these roads, in fact, even with intensive maintenance, will break up
under the present traffic load unless they are rehabilitated. Benefits from
such rehabilitation will include not only savings in vehicle operating cost
but also savings in ordinary road maintenance costs. Each individual road
section accepted for rehabilitation under the proposed project will have
an economic rate of return of at least 12 percent.
49.       The road maintenance program (about 28% of the proposed loan) will
improve highway maintenance capabilities which are relatively limited in rela-
tionship to the demands engendered by growing traffic and an extensive high-
way network, much of which is in poor condition. Economic benefits from im-
proved maintenance will include savings in transport costs since, under the
existing level of maintenance effort, traffic serviceability of many highways
will further deteriorate, some to the point of major failures. The routine
maintenance would have an overall economic rate of return of about 50 percent.



- 17 -
50.       The proposed Covilha bypass and access roads (about 12% of the pro-
posed loan) would take through traffic around both Teixoso and Covilha. The
bypass would reduce the overall length of the section for through traffic
from 19.0 km to 14.3 km, it would also improve conditions for local and urban
traffic. Further, the existing highway would provide much better service to
local traffic when the through traffic diverts to the bypass. The Covilha
bypass would have an economic rate of return of about 21 percent.
51.       The overall economic return for the three quantifiable elements of
the proposed project (i.e., rehabilitation, maintenance and construction)
would have a minimum economic return of 21 percent. Further, the rehabilita-
tion and maintenance projects would generate additional benefits in terms of
introducing basic methods and techniques for periodic and routine maintenance
which may be extended to the whole country. There are no special risks
associated with the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Portugal and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approv-
ing the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors sep-
arately.
53.       Features of the Loan Agreement of special interest are referred to
in paragraphs 37, 39, 40, 43 and 44 of this report.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: A. David Knox
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 7, 1976






PONYB4AL                SO UcIAL INOICATORS DATA SNEET
LAND AREA (THOU KAZO
.......... . ...                      ~~~PORTUGAL                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL        92.1                                         NOST RECENT
ARABLE          ..1960                              1910    EST IMATE          GREECE          ITALY          U. K.**
GNP PER CAPITA (US)                         37.          400  110.0          12900                  98.0       240.0
POPULATIONI AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (M4ID-VR. MILLION)               9.0         9.1         9.0                 6.8        53.6        S5.4
POPULSATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KN.                          98.0        91.0         98.0                67.0       178.0       228.0
PER SQUAR7 KM. ARABLE LAND                .             ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTN RATE PER THOUSANO           24.2        la.?         19.1                16i.5       16.8        16.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAN)           10.8         10.1        10.6                 8.4         9.1        11.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (JTHDU)           78.0        58.0         45.0                29.6        29.6        16.4
LIFE EXPECTANCY Ar BIRTH (IRS)          64.0LA      6r.0        '69.0                10.4        10.9        71.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  1.6         1.5          1.5                 1.0         1.3         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (1)
TOTAL                                    0.5         0.1          0.0                 0.6         0.8         0.6
URBAN                                     ...                      .                   .6          ..          .5
JRBAN POPULATION (5 OF TOTAL)              23.0        37.0          .                 53.0          ..        1.0
AGE STRUCTUIRE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TI ARS                         29.2        28.5        28.1                 24.9        24.4        23.6
15 T3 64 TEARtS                         62.8        51.8         61.9                64.0        65.2        63.4
6S YEARS AND OVER                        8.0         9.1         10.0                11.1        10.4        11.0
AGE DEPENOEICY RATIO                        0.6         0.6         0.6                 0.6         0.5          0.6
ECO'IOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.1         1.1         1.1Lj                ...9Lj                  0.Sja
FAMILY PLANNING-
A-CEPTORS (CUNJLATIVWE. THtOU)            .            ..
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)                .             ..
EMPLOV NENT
TOTAL LABSl FORCE (THOUSAND)            3400.0      3200.0/a     30.J.                          19600.0     25600.0
LAO  ORCE IN AIRICJLTURE (1)           42.0         "15i       Ii 3szj.                         1.
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)                3..                      ..                              .1         3.0ks
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF P8IVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST   51 Of POPULATION                ...                       ..                              .        13.1/d
HIGHEST 201 OF POPJLATICN                 .            ..                               ..                   40.37d-
LOWEST   202 OF POPULATION                .            ..                               ..                    6.6 d
LOWEST   401 Of POPULATION                .             ..                              ..                   18 .5.
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
Z OWNED BY TaP 1)1 OF OWNERS
t OWNE) BY SMALLEST 10Z ObMERS                           .            .
HEALfTi AND NUTRITZIN
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                I?OO.O/b    1t00.0       1020.0               620.0       550.0       820.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           14 20.ofl     POO.OLb     93 0.0             1140.0       410.0Tb      31 0. Dfa
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED              I90I 0        60.0       160.0               160.0        9 0.0OC    11.0/-f
PEr, CAPITA, SUJPPLY OF -
CALOTIES (I OF REOUtRENENTS)           101.0       118.0        118.0               116.0       126.0       125.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  MD.         85.0        83.0                99.0       100.0        90.0
-Or WHICH AANIAL AND PULSE            33.0(c      40.0           .                 52.0jj      42.0        51.0
DEATH ;lATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4                  ..                    3.2                  .           1.0         0.?
EDJ CAT ION
AOJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                          81.0        95.0           ..109.0                      107.0       110.0
SSCONDARY SCHOOL                        36.0        65.0           ..60.0                        !9.0        72.0
YEAkRS OF SCHOOLINiG PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECIOD LEVEL)                13.0        11. 0        13.0                12.0        13.0        13.0
VOCATI3NAL ENROL.LMENT
(t 0- SECONDARY)                        46.0        32.0         30.0                20.0        26.0          5.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z0                   62.0         6S.0          ..                8.0            ..        97.0
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                  1.0          O..                              ..                      . 6/
OCCUPIED OWrLLINSS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                         ?t.-OlA                    .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I 0' ALL DWELLINGS)                    41.0        85.0           .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
T3 ELECTRICIT.Y (1)                     7.0           ..
CONSJIMPTION
RAD10 RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             95.0       142.0       176.0               111.0       210.0        623.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              18.0        57.0        11.0                26.0       190.0        210.0
ELECTRICITY (KWHIYR PER CAP)             406.0        857.0      1026.0              1072.0      2266.0      4413.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  2.5          4.6         3.8                 1.6          5.3        2My
SES NOTES AND DEFtNtITINS ON REVERSE



Page 2 of 4 pages
unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for I40et Recent Estimate between 1971 and 1973.
.*The United Kingdom has been selected as an objective country becausa it cmos likely that, should Portugal manage to attain the level of per capita incoos
of the U.K. , the structure of the Portuguese econmy would hobw similarities vith that of the U.K. which in highly dependent on foreign trade.
PORTUGAL           1960    /   1959-62;   /b  1962;    /c  1960-62;   /d  Inside only.
1970    /a   Portugal continental only;   /b  Including midwives.
MOST HECENT ESTD4ATE:     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ower to total labor force;    /b  Portugal continental only.
GREECE             1970    /a  1967.
ITALY             1970    /a   Ratio of population unider 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force;   /b  Hospital personnel;   /c  including rural hospitals and
medical centerm..
UNITED KINGDOM4    1970    /a  Ratio Of population unkder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;   /b  1966;   Ic  Registered unmployed;    /d  Households.
______________  -   7e  Personnel in govearmoet cervices only;    If Goverment hospital establislroents.
R2 March 4, 1976
DIFPmrTIG6NS OP SOCI%L INDICATORS
Land Area (thou k,s'                                                                 Population per nursing perso  - Population diyided by number Of p-acti-
Toa  Total surface area conprieing land area and inland wetera.                      cing male and fesale graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses,
Arhable  Moat reat essimate of land area, used temporarily or permanently            and auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
for cultivation. Psatures. market and kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.           Population per hospital bed - Population divided by nunber of hospital
beds available In public and private general end specialized hospi-
GNP oer capita (USi) - GNiP percapita estimates at market prices. calcu-                tal and rehabilitation, centers; sldsnrigh-e           and establish-
lated by name conversion method as World sank Atlas (19 72-74 basis).                monte for custodial end preventive care.
Per capita Bupply of calories (7. of requirementa) - Computed fron
population and vital statistics                                                        energy equivalent of net food aupplies available in countcy per
Popuatin (id-r.  illon)- A  ofJuly first: if not available, "avrage           capita per day; available suppliec conprise dnesetic production,
of two end-year estimates.                                                            imports lass exports, and changes in stock; net supplies exclude
animaltfeed, aeeds,,quantities used in food processing and losses
Population densIt - per squ-re ls- Mid-year population per square kilo-                in distribution; requirements were estimated by FAO based on physi-
mneter (100 hec tare) of total area.                                                  ological needs for normal activity and health considering environ-
Povulation density - per square kos of arable land - Computed as above for             motel temperature, body weights, age end ae. distributtmon   of
arable lend only.                                                                    population, and allowing 107. for waste at household level.
Per capita supply of protein (gerow per day) - Protein content of per
vital statistics                                                                       capita net supply of food per day; net supply Of food is defined as
Crude birth rate per thousand - (onual live births per thousand of mid-                above; requiremients for all countries established by USDA Econmic
year population; usually five-year averages endinig in 1960, 1970 and               gesearch Services provide   for a minimum allowance of 60 grams of
1975 for developing countries,                                                      total protein per day, end 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of
crude death rate per thousand - Anntual deaths per thousand of mid-year                which 10 grams should be animal protein; theme standards are lImer
population; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                than those of 75 grams of total protein and 23 grams Of apnial pro-
for developing n oun~tries.                                                         tein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World
infant mortality rate (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year                Food Survey.
of age per thousand live births.                                                 Per capita protein supply fron animal end pulse - Protein supply of food
Life expectancy at birth (yra) - nversge number of years of life remain-               derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
ing at birth; usually five-year averages ending In 1960, 1970 and                Death rate I/thou) ages 1-4 - Ansinal deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
1975 for developing conre.years, to children in this age group; suggested as an Indicator of
Gross repooduction rate - Average aumber of live daughters a woman will                malnutrition.
bear in her normal reproductive period if she experimenes present age-
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,             Education
1970 and 1975 for developing coontries.                                          Adjus ted enrllment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as
Population growth rate (7.) - total - Compound annua growth rates of mid-              percentage of primary school-age population; includes children aged
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1960 to most recent year.                 6-Il years but adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Population gtrowh rate (7.) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total               for countriss with universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007.
population,; different definitions of urban areas may affect comp.r-                since some, pupils are below or above the official school ag..
Uebi,pit.y oft dtaamong countries.                                                 Adjusteod enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; second-
ambee pouaion   (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                    sry education requires at least four years Of approved primary instruc-
different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of date               tinn; provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
amOng countries,                                                                    pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
Age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),            excluded.
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.           years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years Of
Age dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially
those of ages 15 through 64.                                                        or completely excluded.
Econmic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over             Vocational enrollmet (I of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
to the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.                                     technical, Indus trial or other program  which operate independently
yamily Planningj - acceptors (cumulative; thou) - Cumulative number of                  or as departments of aecondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family             Adult literacy rate (7.) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
planning program since inceptioni. 4  en      ecnae         fmridpercentage of total adult population aged IS years and over.
Family planning - user   (7 of marrie   oe)- ecnaeso            are
.wen of child-bearing age (15-64 years) who use birth-control devices            Rousina
to all married women in same age group.                                          Persona per room (average) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Employment                                                                             structures eduocpied parts.
TOtal labo   fre(thousand) - Economilcally active persons, including                 Occ,upid delnS withot piped water (7.) - occupied conventional dwell-
amdfrcs  nd -nemployed but excluding housewives, students;, etc.;             ings in urban and rural areas without inside or outside piped water
definitions in various countries are not comparable.                                 facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Labor force in agriculture (7.) - Agricultural labor force (in farming,             Access to electricity (I. of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
forestry, hunting and fishing) as percentage oftotal labor force,                   electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban
Unemployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persona              and rural areas.
who are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day,             Rural dwellings connected to electricity (7.) - Computed as above for
remained out of a job, and seeking work for a specified mininmns                    rural dwellings only.
period not exceeding one week; may not be comparable betweegn countries
due to different definitions of unemployed end source of data, e.g.,             Consumption
employment office statistics, sample surveys, compulsory unamployssnt            Radio receivers (per thou pop) -All types of receivers for radio broad-
insurance.                                                                          casts to general public per thousand of population; excludes un-
licensed receivers in countries and in years when registration of
lacse  istibtion - Percentgag of private incm   (both in cash sod                   radio sets was In effect; data for recent years may not be comparable
kind) reevd by richest 57., richest 20!, poorest 207., and poorest                   eince most countries abolished licensing.
407. of population.                                                               Passenger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger cars compries motor cars seasting
lees than eight prerons;, excludes ambulances, haarses and military
Distribution of land Ownership - Percentages of lend owned by wealthiest                vehicles.
107. end poorest 107. of lend Owners.                                            Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Anmual consumption of industrial, com-
mercial, public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
Health and Nutrition                                                                    generally based on production data, without allowance for losses In
Ppoulation per phYsician - Population divided by number of practicing                   grids but allowing for Imports and exports of electricity.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                  Newsprint 1kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annual consumption Em hllogrzm
estimated from dmsatic production plus not imports of newsprint.



COUNYA       -P
Page 3 of 4 pages.
AREA                                     POPULATION                         DENSITY   2
92,072 km2                               9.64 million (end-1975)           105 per km
Natural grovth: 0.9 p.a.
Actual growth;.1960-75: 0.45
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS 1975                                  HEALTH
Crude Birth Rate   (per 1,000)            18.3                   Population per physician          896
Crude Death Rate   (per 1,000)            10.6                   Population per hospital bed       160
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births) 50
NUTRITION (1970)                                                 EDUCATION (1973)
Per capita calorie intake as b of requirements        118        Adult literacy rate %              65
Per capita protein intake (grams per day)              85        Primary school enrollment %       100
LAND OWNERSHIP (1968)
(in % of total)                     Owners        Land holding
up to 4 ha.     78              15
4-50 ha.        21              34
over 50 ha.      1              51
GROSS NAtINALis and current rate)                                       ANNUAL RATES OF GROWTH (Z. constant 1970 prices'
US$ Mln.     % _1969-73                                1973        1974        1975
GNP at Market Prices              15,601      100                          7.5          10.3          2.7        -5.5
Private and Public Consumption    14,961       96                          6.1          10.8         8.8          5.2
Gross National Saving                641        4                         14.1           8.2       -21.7        -65.5
Gross Domestic Investment          1,502       10                         11.7          11.9         9.8        -58.0
Current Account Deficit              877        6                          --            --          __           __
Exports of Goods and NFS           2,826       18                          8.5           8.4       -11.8        -20.7
Imports of Goods and NFS          :4,607       30                          9.2          10.6         9.3       -24.6
GDP at Factor Cost                13,514      100                          6.9          11.1         5.4         -2.7
of which:
Agriculture                      2,402       18                         -0.8           5.9         3.4          0.2
Industry                         5,786       43                        10.2           13.9         5.4        -6.4
Services                         5,326       39                         6.6            9.6         6.0         0.6
LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Labor Force                V. A. Per Worker
1,000     Z                 USs $X
Agriculture                   838      28124
Industry                    1,046      35               2,865          64
Services                    1,149      37              4,632          104
Total/Average           3,033     100              4,457          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
(billion escudos)                                                    P/
1972    1973    1974     1975-     1975
% of GNP
Current Receipts                           32.4    39.0    45.9    49.6     (12.5)
Current Expenditures                       29.3    35.2    46.1    52.0      (13.1)
Current Surplus/Deficit (-)                 3.1     3.8     0.2    -2.4      (-0.6)
Capital Expenditures                        7.7     9.5    13.1    19.1      ( 4.8)
Other Items (Net)                          -1.1     2.0     3.3    -5.6        ---
Overall Deficit                            -5.5    -3.7    -9.6   -27.1      (-6.8)
P/ Provisional



COUNTRY DATA - PORTUGAL (Cont'd)
Page 4 of 4 paLges
MONEY. CREDIT. WAGES AND PRICES                                                                       PagealoP4rcge
End 1975e d                1972      1973      1974      1975
20.6      23.4       13.6      12.6
Money and Quasi-money                         385                   13.1       6.0      82.5       57.1
of .hich:  currency                         110                   19.5      35.3     -11.0        4.
sight deposits                   117                  25.2       15.9      17.7      Nil
time deposits                   158                   24 0       30.1      21.8      19.0
Bank Credit                                    360                   23.0      32.6      17.7        7.6
of which:  private sector                   296
pulcsector                    64                   49.1     -23.6      ---       137.0
public sector                     64                  48.5       11.8      32.3      18.7
Wages (Lisbon)                                                         .         .        28.2      14.5
Wholesale Prices (Lisbon)                                           ,1.        12.1       28.2      14.5
Consumer Prices (Lisbon)                                             10.7      12.9      25.1       15.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS. 1974
1971      1972       1973      197-4     1975                                        US$ Million     Percent
(-----    IU,Million     ~~~~
Agricultural and Forestry ProduActs       600            27
Exports, fob                987.8   1,225,J   1,739.0      2,192.1   1,886.8 Textiles and Footwear                     636            29
Imports, fob of           1,638.3   l,981,a   2,756.4     -4,175.5  3,518.1 Machinery and Equipment                    237'          11
which:  oil                 122,1      154.7       531.3     572.2|Chemical and Paper ProductE               307'           14
Trade Deficit              -650.5    -756.0  -1,017.    -1,983.4 -1,631.3 utners                                      412:          19
Tourism, Receipts           212.2     260,6     320.2        513.2     373.4                                        2T192           100
Other NFS, net             -121.7     -77,     -239,        -587.6    -534.6       Total
Factor Income, net          678.3     895,4   1,183.6      1,243.                     DEBT   June 30, 1976
Current Balance             118.3     322.9      247.2      -814.6    -876.6            Und1isbtsed)
MLT Capital, net             83.4      29.4     - -52,1'    196.8 E/. _173.0 i ublic Debt                       US$929 million
of which:  direct invest-                                      I           Debt Service Payments, 1975'        US$158 million
ment            41.7      66.1      56.7 
loans           41.7     -36,7    -109.4                       Debt Service Ratio, 19752"          S.5 percent
ST Capital and Errors and                                        e/       e/   (goods, NFS and FS)
Omissions                  146.1     11.0      186.        -4.0-   118.0-
Changes in Net Reserves     -347.8   -341.3     -381.0      621.8    931.6   IBRD LENDING. December 31. 1974
(- = increase)
Official Reserves; Gross                                                                                               US$ mln.
End of year              1,881.7   2,326.9    2,946.9    2,239.3  1,627.4
of which:  gold           946.1   1,020.2    1,203.9    1,153.1  1,222.5   Total Loans Outstanding and Disbursed     5715
foreign                                                        Principal Repayments                      15.4
exchange      907.8   1,277.1   1,710.6     1,054.7    397.0  Effective Loans Held by Bank              42.1
RATES OF EXCHANGE
Through Dec. 1971         US$1.00 - Esc. 28.75
Jan. 1972 - Feb. 1973     US$1.00 = Esc. 27.25
Feb. 1973 - Jan. 1974     US$1.00 = Esc. 24.67
The exchange rate has been floating since Januar   22. 1974.
The average rate during 1974 and 1975 was USSl.O0 * Esc. 25.41 and Esc. 25.44 respectively
Estimate
September, 1976
EMENA Region



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
The Status of Bank Group Operations in Portugal
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of August 31, 1976)
$ Million
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.     Year      Borrower               Purpose         Bank       Undisbursed
Five loans for power development fully                        57.5         - o -
disbursed.
a/
1301         1976     Electricidade de
Portugal             Power           36.0          36.0
TOTAL                                               93.5         36.0
of which has been repaid                     20.2
TOTAL now outstanding                               73.3
Amount sold                           2.2
of which has been repaid            2.1             .1
b/
TOTAL now held by Bank                              73.2
TOTAL undisbursed                                   36.0         36.0
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of August 31, 1976)
N O N E
C. Projects in Execution:
Loan No. 1301        Sixth Power Project;
US$36.0 Million; Loan of September 24, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
This project is not yet effective.
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustment.






ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2 pages
PORTUGAL HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Portugal
Amount:             $24 million equivalent
Terms:              Amortization over 15 years including 3 years of grace
at 8.7 percent per annum.
Project             The Project consists of:  (a) support for 3 years of
Description:       a 5-year road rehabilitation program for improving roads
in the Lisbon region; b) the purchase of highway mainte-
nance, workshop and engineering equipment to improve
routine maintenance of roads in the Lisbon region; (c)
the construction of a 14.3 km two-lane bypass road around
Covilha; (d) technical assistance for road, railway and
multi-modal planning which would also improve operational
procedures and planning capabilities of the railway and
highway administrations; and training fellowships for
JAE staff in specialized transport study.
Estimated Cost:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
Item                             ($. Thousands)
Road Rehabilitation         13,178     8,864   22,042
Equipment                      929     6,018    6,947
Road Construction            4,610     2,272    6,882
Technical Assistance           557     2,228     2,785
Training                         4        35        39
Physical Contingencies       1,779     1,113    2,892
Price Escalation             3,943     3,470    7,413
Total                       25,000    24,000   49,000
Financing:
IBRD Loan                       $24.0 million
Government                       25.0 million
Total                           $49.0 million



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
Estimated                                     Annual        Cumulative
Disbursements:           Fiscal Year               ($ Millions)
FY1977               i.4            1.4
FY1978              10.8           12.2
FY1979               8.8           21.0
FY1980               3.0           24.0
Procurement          Road maintenance workshop and engineering equipment and
Arrangements:       the contract for new construction of the Covilha by-pass
road (about $10 million of the proposed loan) will be
awarded on the basis of ICB according to the Bank's guide-
lines for procurement. Contracts for road rehabilitation
(about $11.7 million of the proposed loan) will be awarded
after competitive bidding in accordance with local proced-
ures which are satisfactory. Consultants for technical
assistance will be employed according to procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Rate of Return:      The estimated overal economic return on the three quanti-
fiable project elements is 21.4 percent.
Technical            About 347 man-months (or about 30 man-years equivalent)
Assistance          for assistance with highway, railway and multi-modal
(Consultants):     planning.
Appraisal Report:    R1201-PO dated October 7, 1976.



0--~ ~ -
RAN



