1201 -P0                                                                  FILE COPY
Report No. 14K_PO
Appraisal of a
Highway Project Portugal
October 7, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 12, 1976)
Currency Unit       =    Escudo (Ese)
Esc 1               =    US$0.034
Esc 1,000           =    US$34.08
Esc 1,000,000             US$34,083
US$1                      Esc 29.34
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                       British/US System
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                    0.62 miles (mi)    2
1 sq. kilometer (km2)               0.386 sq. miles (mi )
1 metric ton (m ton)                0.984 long ton (lg ton)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CP        -    Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses
ER        -    Economic Return
FYB       -    First Year Benefit
JAE       -    Junta Autonoma de Estradas
MTC       -    Ministry of Transportation and Communications
VOC       -    Vehicle Operating Costs
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ............................i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  .......................................                                 1
II.     THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ...............................                               1
A.     Geography,  Economic  Development  and  the
Transport  Network  ...........................                             1
B.     The Transport  System  ..........................                             2
C.     Transport  Policy,  Planning,  Organization,
Regulation and  Investments  ....                  ..............          3
D.     Previous  Projects  in  the  Transport  Sector  .....                         4
III.     THE  HIGHWAYS  .......................................                                5
A.    The Network  ................5................                                  5
B.    Traffic  .......................................                               5
C.     Administration  ................................                              6
D.     Planning  ......................................                              6
E.     Financing  .....................................                              6
F.     Engineering  ...................................                              7
G.     Construction  ..................................                              7
H.    Highway Maintenance  ...........................                               8
I.    Training  ......................................                               8
IV.     THE PROJECT  ........................................                                 9
A.     Objectives  ....................................                              9
B.     Description  ...................................                              9
C.     Engineering  ...................................                             13
D.     Cost  Estimates  ................................                            13
E.     Financing  .....................................                             14
F.     Implementation  ................................                             14
G.     Disbursements  .................................                             16
H.     Environmental  Impact  ..........................                            17
V.     ECONOMIC  EVALUATION  ................................                              17
A.     Benefits  and  Beneficiaries  ....................                           17
B.     Economic  Evaluation  ...........................                            18
VI.     AGREEMENTS  REACHED AND RECOMIENDATIONS  ...... .......                              20
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1. Portuguese Railways: Revenues and Expenditures, 1969-74
2. National Highway Network
3. Motor Vehicle Fleet
4.  Highway Expenditures for National Network
5. Highway Maintenance and Related Equipment to be Financed by the Loan
6. Design Characteristics of Covilha Bypass Road
7.  Project Cost Estimates
8. Fuel Prices Per Litre
9. Fuel Prices Per US Gallon
10. Fuel Consumption by Highway Vehicles
11. The Economic Returns for Road Rehabilitation
12. The Economic Return for Construction of Covilha Bypass and Access Roads
ANNEXES
1. Technical Assistance in National Transport Planning
2. Technical Assistance in Railway Planning
3. Technical Assistance in Highway Planning and Development
4. Project Implementation Schedule
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6. Methodology for Making an Economic Evaluation of Road Rehabilitation
Projects
7. Economic Justification of Routine Maintenance
8. Covilha Bypass-Routing of Traffic
CHART
15703(R) Organization of the Junta Autonoma de Estradas
MAP
12035 Highway System - Portugal



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Historically, Portugal has looked outward to the sea and the devel-
opment of its transport network reflects this outlook. The rail and road net-
works are concentrated along the western coastal plain in a 316 km corridor
between Lisbon and Oporto. Although the transport network is much less dense
in the south and east where economic activity is less developed and where the
terrain is much more difficult, it provides reasonable access to the area.
ii.       Land traffic has expanded rapidly in recent years mainly on the
highways. The highway network largely evolved by the gradual upgrading of
roads not originally designed for motor vehicles. Thus, even though some 96%
of the national road network is paved, the greater part of it no longer meets
the demands of modern, fast, highway traffic. Further, due to inadequate
pavement structure and lack of maintenance many of the paved roads show
serious signs of distress.
iii.      Transport planning, policy and regulation over the years have been
largely on an ad hoc basis, with only limited coordination between modes. A
number of decrees have addressed themselves to transportation policy in the
last two years stressing planning as the basis of policy, but coordinated
long-range transport planning is hardly underway.
iv.       The proposed project, the first Bank project in the transport sector
of Portugal, would help the Government make a start in remedying these defi-
ciencies. It would start the rehabilitation of the national road network in
the Lisbon region and help to establish efficient road maintenance in that
region. It would also assist in improving intermodal transport planning and
modal planning for the highway and railway subsectors, provide assistance for
the construction of a bypass around the city of Covilha, a major traffic
"bottleneck" on an important north-south highway, and provide training for
the national highway department's staff in an area critical to highway plan-
ning. Overall, the proposed project would serve to provide the basic frame-
work for a more rational development of the country's transportation system
generally and to provide a specific plan for investment in highways and rail-
ways while protecting past investments in highway infrastructure.
v.        The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$49 million
with a foreign exchange component of US$24 million, including price and quan-
tity contingencies.



- ii -
vi.       The Junta Autonoma de Estradas (the Highway Administration) will
have the overall responsibility for implementation of road rehabilitation,
routine maintenance, the highway related technical assistance and for the
training component of the project. The Ministry of Transportation and
Communications and the Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses (the
national railway company) will be responsible for the implementation of
technical assistance to those organizations under the proposed project.
vii.      Contracts for construction of the bypass and for road maintenance
and workshop and engineering equipment will be "aarded after international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement".
Contracts for rehabilitation will be awarded after competitive bidding in
accordance with local procedures under which foreign contractors are allowed
to bid. Technical assistance will be provided by consultants according to
terms of reference and contracts, both satisfactory to the Bank.
viii.     The project was appraised in December 1975 with a follow-up mission
in March 1976. The general benefits from the proposed investments will accrue
to the economy of Portugal as a whole due to lower freight and passenger trans-
port costs. Direct benefits will accrue to the trucking industry, a substan-
tial part of which is state owned, and to a wide range of income groups uti-
lizing highway passenger transport.
ix.       The project is economically sound and of high priority.  On the
basis of savings in highway user costs road rehabilitation works are expected
to yield economic returns of at least 12% on each link rehabilitated. The
maintenance component of the proposed project shows an economic return of over
50%, and the bypass construction over 20%. On the very conservative assump-
tion that the rehabilitation component has an economic return averaging only
12%, the overall return for the three quantifiable elements, above, would be
at least 21%.
x.        Benefits from the Technical Assistance and Training components of
the proposed project are extremely difficult to quantify. They are critical
elements in setting the framework for sound development of the transport
sector and an economically efficient allocation of funds to the sector.
xi.        It is proposed to finance the foreigR costs of the project by a
loan to the Government of Portugal of US$24.0 million for a 15-year period
including three years of grace. It would cover 49% of the total project cost,
equal to the estimated foreign exchange component. The proposed project pro-
vides a suitable basis for such a loan to Portugal.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Portugal has asked the Bank to help finance a proj-
ect comprising of a road rehabilitation and maintenance program; the construc-
tion of-a 14.3 km bypass road; technical assistance for general and modal
transportation planning; and training of highway administration staff. The
road rehabilitation and maintenance program, prepared by the highway adminis-
tration, would be carried out on a pilot project basis in the Lisbon region
with the intention to gain experience before it will be expanded to other
regions. The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the bypass road
were prepared by Portuguese consultants Lusotecna and financed by the Junta
Autonoma de Estradas (JAE). The total project cost is estimated at US$49.0
million, towards which a Bank Loan of US$24.0 million, representing the
estimated foreign cost, is proposed.
1.02      This report was prepared on the basis of information by the Portuguese
authorities and the consultants Lusotecna, and on the findings of an appraisal
mission composed of Messrs. R.H. Snel (Engineer), A.I. Ramuglia (Economist) and
S.R. Ditmeyer (Economist) and of Ms. M.W. Grosse (Loan Officer), who visited
Portugal in December 1975 and of a follow-up mission by Messrs. Snel and
Ramuglia in March 1976.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geography, Economic Development and the Transport Network
2.01      Historically, Portugal has looked outward to the sea.  Separated
from Spain by a belt of thinly populated, barren country, the boundary between
the two countries lies near the point where it becomes easier to go downhill
to the west coast than uphill and across the plateau to the main economic
center of Spain. Economic development and the transport network reflect
the country's seaward outlook and are concentrated along the western coastal
plain in a 316 km corridor between Lisbon and Oporto. The transport network
is much less dense in the south and east where economic activity is less
developed and where the terrain is much more difficult.
2.02      Although total land traffic has expanded rapidly in recent years
(para. 2.03), the transport network has remained essentially constant. No
additions to the basic rail network of 3,500 km occurred in the last decade,
and the national highway network has also remained essentially the same,
expanding only from about 17.7 thousand km (17 thousand paved) to 18.0
thousand km (17.6 thousand paved). Nevertheless, the highway network is
sufficiently extensive to serve all parts of the country including the
lesser developed regions.



2.03      Most of the expansion in land traffic has occurred on the highways.
Between 1968 and 1973 road passenger traffic, in terms of passenger-km, has
grown at an annual rate of about 12% and rail passenger traffic at about 4%.
During the same period road freight traffic, according to partial indicators,
grew at a rate of some 6-8% annually, while railway freight traffic remained
essentially stagnant. Investment and maintenance of the highway network has
lagged behind the growth of traffic with the result that, overall, the network
is below standard for present traffic. With the development of road transport,
some of the railway lines now carry very little traffic, and could be closed.
B. The Transport System
2.04      Portugal's basic transport system includes the two major ports of
Lisbon and Oporto, about 3,500 km of railways, some 42,000 km of roads and
three jet airports.
(a)  Highways
2.05      The highway sector is discussed in Chapter III.
(b)  Ports
2.06      Portugal has 19 officially designated ports.  The two major ports,
Lisbon and Oporto, together handle about 18 million metric tons of cargo in-
cluding some 5 million metric tons of petroleum products. Administratively,
these ports have considerable autonomy, operate with reasonable efficiency
and have been able to finance part of current investment from their own
resources. Presently a new deep water port and refinery are being constructed
at Sines, 80 km south of Lisbon. This port will concentrate mainly on petro-
leum. With investments now under way, or committed, including a new container
terminal in Lisbon, the ports generally have adequate capacity for traffic in
the immediate future.
2.07      Some vessels in international trade call at both Lisbon and Oporto.
Available data are fragmentary but actual movement of dry cargo between the
various mainland ports of Portugal appears to be relatively small. The long-
term potential of coastal shipping however, needs to be explored in the con-
text of national transport planning (para. 2.11).
(c) Civil Aviation
2.08      Airport facilities are generally adequate for current traffic al-
though domestic air travel has grown rapidly in recent years. The increased
price of fuel, which is beginning to be reflected in air fares, may slow this
increase but some upgrading of national airport facilities will undoubtedly be
required in the near future, although this is not a critical matter now. Be-
cause of the small size of Portugal, the national airline, Transportes Aereos



- 3 -
Portugal (TAP), maintains only two domestic routes, between Lisbon and Oporto
and between Lisbon and Faro. A subsidiary, Transportes Aereos Continentais
(TAC) has just initiated regular flights between Lisbon and Covilha on a trial
basis and operates air taxi service and charter flights throughout Portugal.
(d)  Railways
2.09      The network of the Companhia dos Caminhoes de Ferro Portugueses (CP)
consists of 2,804 route-km of broad-gauge (i.e. Spanish gauge) track and 759
route-km of meter-gauge track. Of the broad-gauge lines, approximately 400
route-km are double track and electrified to provide corridor-type service
between Lisbon and Oporto and commuter services in those cities. CP was na-
tionalized in 1975 and, although administratively autonomous, is now responsi-
ble to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications. (Sociedade Estoril,
an independent 26 km-long commuter line from Lisbon to Cascais, is to be
nationalized and merged with CP at the end of 1976.) The mainline between
Lisbon and Oporto has recently been rehabilitated, but much of the remainder
of the track in the system is in fair to poor condition due to deferred main-
tenance and renewal. Likewise, much of the rolling stock in use on other
than the mainline and commuter lines is also overage and in need of replace-
ment. One-fourth of the locomotive fleet is steam-powered, but these units
now power less than 10% of the total train-kilometers. Poor condition of
physical assets, deficiencies in organization, planning, and marketing, and
low quality service have inhibited the growth of rail freight traffic which
has remained essentially stagnant at about 4 million tons and 800 million
ton-km during the last decade. Most of the freight traffic is between Lisbon
and Oporto and consists mainly of fertilizer, cement and grain. Passenger
traffic, 80% of which is commuter traffic, has grown from 2,155 million
passenger-kilometers in 1963 to about 3,600 million passenger-kilometers in
1974. An investigation of the viability of the railway network as a whole
and in terms of its component parts will be aided by the techniical assistance
component of the proposed project (paras. 2.11 and 4.15).
2.10      The CP has experienced large deficits for several years with current
revenues covering only about 60% of working expenditures (Table 1). The
present deficit is largely the result of sharp increases in the cost of labor
and past Government control on fares and rates at relatively low levels. At
the present time, gross receipts do not even cover labor costs. The Govern-
ment has, however, announced a substantial increase in railway fares.
C. Transport Policy, Planning, Organization, Regulation and Investments
(a) Policy and Planning
2.11      Transport policy and planning over the years have been largely on
an ad hoc basis. Although a number of decrees have addressed themselves to
transportation problems and policy in the last two years, stressing coordi-
nated, long-range transport planning as the basis for transport policy, such
planning is hardly underway. Aware of the need to implement transport plan-
ning, the Government has requested the technical assistance component in the



- 4 -
proposed project, not only to the Ministry of Transportation and Communica-
tions (MTC), which will have overall responsibility for intermodal national
transport planning, but also to the JAE for highway planning and to the CP for
railway planning. The overall objective of this assistance is to help in the
development of a rational framework for transport investment based on economic
priorities for the transport network considered as an integrated, multi-modal
whole. The establishment under the proposed project of an up-to-date highway
master plan could form the basis for a possible future highway sector loan.
(b) Organization and Regulation
2.12      At the present time the Government has control of CP through owner-
ship and network control (construction and maintenance) of the national
highway system. The Government, through nationalization of the Portuguese
owned banks and some industries, has also indirectly acquired operating
control of a significant portion of the trucking industry. The Government has
also directly nationalized the ten largest road transport enterprises and has
indicated that it would promote formation of trucking cooperatives. However,
entry into the road haulage field is not now formally restricted and, although
it can be controlled by licensing, the Government does not seem to be using
its licensing power to systematically limit entrance into the trucking busi-
ness. Further, formation of trucking cooperatives has yet to be vigorously
pushed.
(c) Investments
2.13      The Government of Portugal uses a general fund method of public
finance to meet most of its outlays. A major exception is a railway operat-
ing subsidy from the Land Transportation Fund, which is financed by certain
railway traffic and motor vehicle taxes. Also the Auto-Estrada Norte has
been financed as a toll road (para. 3.09) as has been the bridge across the
River Tejo at Lisbon. Consequently, general budget totals of funds spent
on transport understate actual expenditures. Nevertheless, transportation
has accounted for about 20% of the general budget capital expenditures over
the last decade. Government outlays for highways, both capital and operating,
have had a varied pattern but in terms of overall national budget expenditures
have been quite modest. In the 1960's they ranged between 1.3 and 2.5% of
national budgetary totals and in 1975 were about 2% of the budget.
D. Previous Projects in the Transport Sector
2.14      There have been no previous Bank projects in the transport sector
in Portugal.



- 5 -
III. THE HIGHWAYS
A. The Network
3.01      The network has evolved historically, by the gradual upgrading
of roads that were not originally designed for motor vehicles. During the
last 20 years only about 1,500 km of newly designed roads have been con-
structed and the geometric characteristics and the bearing capacity of the
greater part of the network no longer meet the demands of modern, fast high-
way traffic. The density of the network varies from about 60 km per 100 sq.
km in the coastal zone to 25 km per 100 sq. km in the interior and generally
meets present quantitative, but not necessarily qualitative demands. How-
ever, there may be scope for improving the road infrastructure of some of
the rural areas in the interior.
3.02      Out of a total highway network of about 42,000 km about 18,000 km
are classified as national roads. The remaining 24,000 km are local roads and
city streets. Except for 66 km of 4-lane divided highways, all roads of the
national network are of 2-lane standards (Table 2). About 90% of the national
network is asphalt paved mostly by surface dressing. About 6% of the national
network is stone paved and about 4% is still unpaved. Of the local roads
about 82% is paved.
3.03      Administratively, the national network is subdivided into 5,500 km
of primary roads and 12,500 km of secondary and tertiary roads. However,
there is little difference between the physical characteristics of the pri-
mary roads and those of the secondary and tertiary roads. Only about 7% of
the national network, including the 4-lane divided highways, has a road
width of 7m or more. Of the remaining roads about 90% are between 5-6m wide.
3.04      Due to inadequate pavement structure and to lack of maintenance many
roads show signs of distress. This situation will be improved in the Lisbon
region, where about 16% of the national roads are located, by the 5-year road
rehabilitation and maintenance program which the proposed project helps to
finance (para. 4.03).
B. Traffic
3.05      Country-wide traffic counts, which have been carried out every
five years since 1955, indicate that the highest traffic volumes occur in
a 50 km wide strip along the Atlantic coast between Setubal (about 30 km
south-east of Lisbon) and Viana do Castelo in the north. Within this strip
the traffic, in terms of vehicle movements, in the districts of Lisbon and
Oporto combined represents about half of the total Portuguese highway traffic,
with that of the Lisbon district alone representing about 30% of the total.
The main artery is the Lisbon-Oporto road with heavy vehicles accounting for
20-30% of the total traffic. The actual vehicle fleet is not accurately known



- 6 -
because vehicles, after their initial registration, are not required to re-
register annually. However, the JAE has estimated that from 1970-75 the
vehicle fleet has grown by 80%, representing an annual growth rate of 12.5%
(Table 3).
3.06      Traffic regulations are generally satisfactory and well enforced by
the authorities. The Government is presently reviewing vehicle legislation,
in particular the Portuguese legislation for the maximum permissable axle
loading in view of the proposals put forward by the European Conference of
Ministers of Transport.
C. Administration
3.07      Administration of the national highway network is entrusted to the
JAE which is part of the Ministry of Public Works. The JAE's most important
administrative and technical departments are located in its Lisbon head-
quarters. However, for the execution of civil works, authority has been
mostly delegated to four regional offices, which in their turn are sub-
divided into a total of 18 districts (see Organization Chart). The JAE is
staffed by about 130 qualified civil engineers, as well as by a few mechani-
cal engineers, landscape architects and geologists. Technicians, draftsmen
and maintenance personnel bring the total of the JAE's personnel to about
3,000. Local roads and city streets are administered by the local authorities.
D. Planning
3.08      The Office of Studies and Planning in the JAE's headquarters is in
charge of highway planning. The present highway plan (1974-85) is largely
based on a 10-year highway investment plan prepared by the JAE in 1973, with
assistance of consultants Dorsch (Federal Republic of Germany), financed
by the OECD. The 1973 plan established priorities for highways to be con-
structed or rehabilitated on technical grounds, taking into consideration
economic criteria.  Because the Terms of Reference did not require that
competing modes, in particular railways and coastal shipping, be taken into
account and also because of the time lapse since 1973, the plan needs to be
reviewed. The JAE, therefore, proposes to develop a new highway plan on a
continuous basis, which will be coordinated with the general transportation
plan. Technical assistance for the highway plan and general transportation
plan will be provided under the proposed project (paras. 4.14 and 4.16).
E. Financing
3.09      Hlighway expenditures are normally financed from the general budget.
Toll road financing was introduced in 1961 by the opening of a 25 km section
of a divided 4-lane toll highway from Lisbon to Oporto. In 1970, the Govern-
ment decided to extend the toll highway system and to use a corporate type



- 7 -
of organization to build and operate such a system. Up to now, however,
only another 25 km of the Lisbon-Oporto toll highway is being constructed
by an international consortium of foreign banks and contractors.
3.10      Capital and recurrent highway expenditures during the period from
1963-75 are shown in Table 4. Whereas the JAE's funds derive wholly from
the general budget, part of the road user charges are earmarked for a special
fund for land transport, an export development fund and a fund to develop
tourism. The JAE estimates that on average 40% of the road user charges are
being allocated to these three funds, whereas, the remaining 60% is absorbed by
the general budget. The special fund for land transport is utilized mainly to
subsidize the operations of the CP. In addition, the fund is also used as a
source of finance for urban transportation projects in large cities and for
research and planning of land transportation systems.
F. Engineering
3.11      The JAE's Directorate of Construction is responsible for the tech-
nical preparation of national highway projects, which are built to satis-
factory design standards. The Directorate also provides the expertise for
the design of local roads, although these roads are administered by local
authorities. The JAE utilizes the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, ad-
ministered by the Ministry of Public Works and staffed by competent engineers,
in the preparation of highway projects. To ease the JAE's workload, projects
are sometimes prepared by local consulting engineers, selected from a group of
about four or five prequalified firms.
3.12      There is at present no shortage of technical staff in Portugal, es-
pecially since the return of Portuguese engineers and technicians from the
former colonies. In a number of specialized areas, such as modern techniques
for highway planning, highway administration and the planning and budgeting of
highway maintenance the JAE's experience is, however, limited. At the request
of the JAE the proposed project will finance technical assistance in these
fields (para. 4.16).
G. Construction
3.13      Ilighway construction projects are normally awarded after competi-
tive bidding. The local contracting industry, which is well equipped and
capable of executing medium sized highway projects, should be able to partic-
ipate successfully in international competitive bidding for medium sized
projects within Portugal. Supervision of construction is normally done by
the JAE's own staff, assisted by the National Civil Engineering Laboratory
for testing of materials.



-8-
H. Highway Maintenance
3.14      In the past highway maintenance was carried out by 18 districts
supervised by the Directorate of tlaintenance in headquarters. Much of the
work was done manually by small working groups, which were responsible for
road sections of about 30 km in length. With the then prevailing light
traffic loads, this method was satisfactory, however, with increased and
heavier traffic the method could not prevent a gradual deterioration of the
network.
3.15      In the beginning of 1973 the JAE decided to reorganize highway main-
tenance by dividing the country into four regions which are each subdivided
into three to five districts. In each district routine maintenance would be
undertaken by self-contained mechanized units which would each cover about 200
km of roads. Workshop facilities would be available in the headquarters of
the districts whereas special mechanical services would be provided in the
regional headquarters. As before, periodic maintenance such as the renewal
of wearing courses would be mainly carried out under contract by pavement
contractors.
3.16      The new organizational structure has been established but the in-
troduction of the new system of road maintenance has been hampered by lack of
equipment. To assist in executing a planned 5-year (1977-81) pilot rehabilita-
tion and routine maintenance program for the Lisbon region (3,250 km) the Gov-
ernment has requested the Bank to finance a 3-year (1977-79) time slice of the
rehabilitation program (para. 4.06) and equipment for the routine maintenance
program (para. 4.11). JAE intends to use the experience obtained in executing
the Lisbon region programs for their expansion at a subsequent stage into a
national highway program.
I. Training
3.17      Within the framework of the Lisbon pilot maintenance program the
JAE has established a program to train about 40 equipment operators by mem-
bers of its own staff. Under the technical assistance component of the
project (para. 4.16) consultants will assist the JAE in formulating training
programs for and provide on the job training in highway administration and
highway maintenance. At the request of the Government the project will also
finance courses in traffic engineering and transportation planning at foreign
universities for three JAE staff members (para. 4.18).



- 9 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      In line with the Government's policy to protect past highway invest-
ments, to eliminate serious bottlenecks in the highway network and to establish
a rational framework for transportation investments, the project would:
(a) help to rehabilitate the national road network;
(b) help to establish efficient road maintenance procedures;
(c) relieve traffic congestion in the city of Covilha and
reduce transportation costs by constructing a 14.3 km by-
pass near Covilha; and
(d) help to improve intermodal transportation planning and
modal planning for the railways and highways sub-sectors.
B. Description
4.02      The project would consist of:
(a) a 3-year (1977-79) time slice of the rehabilitation pro-
gram for national roads, primarily in the Lisbon region;
(b) the purchase of highway maintenance and workshop equipment
to improve routine maintenance of national roads in the
Lisbon region and of engineering equipment for the design
of pavement overlays;
(c) the construction and supervision of a 14.3 km two-lane by-
pass road near Covilha;
(d) the provision of consultants' services to assist in trans-
portation planning and to improve operational procedures
and planning of the railways' and highways' administra-
tions; and
(e)  post graduate training of three JAE staff members.
Highway Rehabilitation and Routine Maintenance
4.03      JAE has prepared 5-year pilot rehabilitation and routine maintenance
programs for the national roads in the Lisbon region (para. 3.16). The JAE
has selected the Lisbon region (3,250 kmi), comprising the districts of Santarem



- 10 -
(1,250 km), Lisbon (1,050 km) and Setubal (950 km), because it is near to the
JAE's headquarters from where it can easily be supervised. As soon as suffi-
cient experience has been obtained, the pilot programs would, subject to
budget availability and technical economic appropriateness, be gradually
extended throughout the country.
4.04      A new office and workshops in Santarem, to serve the programs, are
being built under JAE's own arrangements. Plans for an office in Setubal
and for workshops in Lisbon, also to be built under JAE's own arrangements,
are being prepared. Arrangements for office space in Lisbon have been made
and Setubal already has workshops which were built a few years ago.
Highway Rehabilitation
4.05      Roads will be rehabilitated by resurfacing or, where necessary, by
strengthening of the pavement and by reinstating the shoulders, embankment
slopes and drainage systems. In some cases, additional works (widening,
improvement of shoulders) may be necessary to provide an adequate level of
service. The rehabilitation will be carried out by pavement contractors.
4.06      Under the proposed project the Bank will finance the foreign cost
of rehabilitating about 860 km of roads in the Lisbon region during the first
three years of the program (1977-79). The preliminary scope of the rehabili-
tation was established on the basis of the present condition and the past
performance of the roads which were selected. A technical and economic
feasibility study, based on criteria agreed between the Government and the
Bank (Annex 6) of each individual section will, however, be submitted to the
Bank for approval before the start of the rehabilitation.
4.07      The ultimate scope and priorities of the rehabilitation works will
depend mostly on the residual strength of the road pavements. The JAE has
developed a methodology based on pavement deflection measurements, on soils
laboratory tests and on present and future traffic loads, to determine the
scope of the work. The methodology is satisfactory and provides a rational
approach to highway rehabilitation. The project includes also the purchasing
of traffic counting equipment and some additional equipment for the National
Civil Engineering Laboratory needed for the final design of pavement overlays
(Table 5).
4.08      Although some modifications to the program may have to be made after
the detailed technical and economic investigations of the sections are com-
pleted, the JAE has sufficiently demonstrated its ability to develop a satis-
factory road rehabilitation program from the detailed studies carried out for
a 10 km road section in the Lisbon region and for the 35 km Gestosa-Viseu road
(para 4.09). The rehabilitation part of the project is thus broadly based on
a highway sector lending concept.
4.09      The rehabilitation program financed by the project will be limited
in principle to the Lisbon region. However, the JAE has requested that an
exception be made for very high priority rehabilitation sections elsewhere
in the country. One of these high priority sections is the 35 km long



- 11 -
Gestosa-Viseu road, northeast of Coimbra in the center of the country (see
Htap), on which the JAE has submitted a satisfactory technical and economic
study. It is, therefore, proposed to include the rehabilitation for this
section in the project. Similarly, other high priority sections outside the
Lisbon region which the JAE may present from time to time would be considered,
provided their technical and economic justification and high priority are
established to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Highway Routine Maintenance
4.10      Under the pilot routine maintenance program, specialized force
account units in each district will maintain pavements, drainage ditches,
shoulders, side slopes and road markings and will control vegetation, using
existing equipment and new equipment to be purchased under the project.
4.11      To establish the new system of routine maintenance in the Lisbon
region the Government has requested Bank financing of highway maintenance and
workshop equipment (Table 5). Because the world's major equipment suppliers
are well represented in Portugal, JAE does not normally hold a large stock of
spare parts. Therefore, the list of equipment does not include spares.
4.12      The JAE estimates that the total cost of routine maintenance in the
Lisbon region, including cost of personnel, materials and fuel but excluding
acquisition and depreciation of equipment, during the 5-year program will be
about Esc 428 million (US$14.6 million) at end of 1975 prices. The Govern-
ment confirmed during negotiations that JAE will be provided sufficient funds
to execute the program.
Construction
Covilha Bypass
4.13      The 14.3 km Covilha bypass road will provide a modern two-lane
facility for inter-regional traffic on National Road No. 18 through the
Covilha region, in the east-central part of the country (see Map). The
present road which is 19 km long and only 5.5-6 m wide passes through the
urban area of Covilha along winding and narrow city streets which are unsuit-
able for trucks. Access roads from Covilha and Teixoso will form part of the
project road. The existing road will remain for use of local traffic.
Technical Assistance
Ministry of Transportation and Communications
4.14      Technical assistance under the project would be provided to the
MTC, CP and JAE. The MTC was set up only in 1975 and has not yet become a
fully operational entity. At present the Ministry leans heavily on the
planning bureaus of the CP and the JAE and its responsibilities in the fields
of establishing transport policies, coordination of transport modes and other
overall transport matters have not yet been well defined. To assist the MTC



- 12 -
in developing a 5-year integrated national transport plan and an indicative
additional 107year plan, the Government has requested inclusion in the pro-
posed project of technical assistance in the transportation field. To serve
this purpose the Bank has assisted in drafting Terms of Reference for con-
sultants' services (Annex 1), estimated at 100 man-months over a period of
three years. The MTC is evaluating proposals from consultants and it is
expected that a contract can be signed early in December 1976.
Railways
4.15      The Government has requested assistance to the CP for developing a
mid-range (6-year) rehabilitation and action plan and for establishing a
cost accounting system. Terms of Reference for consultants' services (Annex
2) were prepared by the CP and agreed to by the Bank with minor modifications.
The Terms of Reference require the consultants to make detailed freight and
passenger traffic projections and to assist the CP in preparing a rehabilita-
tion, rationalization and financing plan covering the next six years. The
studies are expected to require about 80 man-months of consultants' services
over 14 months. The CP has received consultants' proposals and expects to
award a contract early in December 1976.
Highways
4.16      The JAE intends to prepare an updated 5-year plan and a prospective
plan for an additional 10 years based on a comprehensive review of the road
transportation needs. The JAE also intends to improve its administration, its
cost accounting and its procedures for highway maintenance. Because the JAE
would benefit from the cooperation of specialists in some of the above fields
the Government has requested Bank financing of technical assistance for the
above purposes. Terms of Reference (Annex 3) for consultants' services,
totalling about 155 man-months and lasting two years, have been agreed between
the JAE and the Bank. The JAE expects to invite consultants' proposals in
November 1976 and to award a contract in April 1977.
4.17      It has been agreed with the MTC, CP and JAE, that the actual plan-
ning will be done by Portuguese staff with the advice and assistance of the
consultants. To ensure that this objective will be accomplished, assurance
was obtained from the Government during negotiations that an adequate number
of qualified staff will be made available by the three organizations for this
purpose.  It was also agreed during negotiations that the Bank will have an
opportunity to comment on the consultants' reports and that the major recom-
mendations of'the studies will be discussed between the three organizations
and the Bank.
Training
4.18      To strengthen JAE's capability in highway planning, the project
includes training for three members of JAE's staff in traffic engineering
and transportation planning during two semesters for each staff member. As-
surances were obtained during negotiations that the JAE will submit details
of the institutions to be attended and the courses to be followed to the Bank
for approval.



- 13 -
C. Engineering
4.i9      Engineering for the Covilha bypass road was competently carried
out by Portuguese consultants (Lusotecna) in accordance with the design
standards of Table 6, which are satisfactory.
D. Cost Estimates
4.20      The estimated cost of the project is as follows, details are given
in Table 7.
% Foreign
Escudos Million           US$ Thousand       Exchange
Item                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign Total  Component
I. Road Rehabilitation 386.6   260.0   646.6  13,178  8,864  22,042    40
II. Equipment              27.2   176.6   203.8       929  6,018   6,947    87
III. Highway Construc-
tion                135.3    66.6   201.9   4,610  2,272   6,882    33
IV. Technical Assistance 16.4    65.3    81.7         557  2,228   2,785    80
V. Training                0.1     1.0      1.1        4     35       39    90
Base Cost Estimate 565.6   569.5 1,135.1  19,278 19,417  38,695    50
Physical Contin-
gencies (7.5%)      52.2    32.7    84.9   1,779  1,113   2,892    38
Price Escalation
(19.2%)            115.7   101.8   217.5   3,943  3,470   7,413    47
Total Expected
Cost of Project    733.5   704.0 1,437.5  25,000 24,000  49,000    49
4.21      The cost estimate for road rehabilitation reflects the preliminary
quantities for resurfacing and minor civil works required for the first three
years of the five-year Lisbon region rehabilitation program and unit rates ap-
plicable in August 1976. Final quantities, and consequently final costs, will
depend on the outcome of the detailed investigations of each section (para.
4.07). Depending on the final costs the total length of rehabilitated roads
may therefore differ from the 860 km presently estimated to be financed under
the project. The cost estimate for the equipment is derived from the list of
equipment to be purchased under the project (see Table 5) and the world market
prices in August 1976. The cost estimate of constructing the Covilha bypass
is based on quantities for the final design and on estimated unit rates in
August 1976. Cost estimates for technical assistance reflect the number of
man-months required and the price level in August 1976 (average monthly rate
of US$7,200 including travel, per diem and reports). The cost estimate for
training is based on the cost of living, transportation and tuition fees for
three persons during two semesters each.



- 14 -
4.22      A 10% quantity contingency for the road rehabilitation works
covers possible adjustments in the estimated thickness of asphalt overlays.
In the construction of the Covilha bypass a 10% quantity contingency covers
possible extra earthworks in cuts with unstable side slopes, uncertainties
in the nature of the embankment soils which may require adjustments in the
pavement thickness and extra drainage works which may become apparent during
construction. There are no quantity contingencies for equipment, technical
assistance and training. The price escalations of 22% for the rehabilitation
works and of 18%o for the Covilha bypass are based on projected price increases
of 13% for 1976 and 12% for 1977, 1978 and 1979 and a construction period of
about three years for the rehabilitation works and of about 20 months for the
bypass. The price escalation for equipment of 13% reflects an increase in the
foreign cost of 9% for 1976 and 8% for 1977 and 1978. The 14% price escalation
for local and foreign costs of technical assistance represents an annual cost
increase of 8% in 1976, 1977, 1978 and 1979.
4.23      The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$24.0 million,
i.e. 49% of total project cost. It is assumed that the contracts for the
rehabilitation works and for the Covilha bypass will be won by local con-
tracting firms because the local contracting industry is highly competitive
and because it is unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested in the
relatively minor works for individual paving contracts and for the Covilha
bypass (paras. 4.27 and 4.29). The estimated foreign cost of the equipment
represents the CIF value of all equipment if imported. However, about 22% of
the equipment is manufactured or assembled locally. A preference of 15% or
the customs duty, whichever is lower, will be given to domestic manufacturers.
If domestic manufacturers would win all the contracts for equipment which they
are able to supply, the Loan would finance local costs of about US$500,000,
based on an estimated local value added of 30% of the ex-factory price. This
is a plausible percentage given the nature of the equipment.
E. Financing
4.24      The proposed loan of US$24.0 million, representing the foreign
cost of the project, will be made to the Government of Portugal. Beneficia-
ries of the loan are the JAE (US$22.6 million), the MTC (US$0.8 million) and
the CP (US$0.6 million). The Government will finance the local costs of the
project (US$25.0 million), of which US$5.4 million represents taxes. The
Government will also bear the cost of the 5-year routine maintenance program
in the Lisbon region exclusive of the acquisition or depreciation of equipment
(para. 4.12).
F. Implementation
Responsibility for Implementation and Supervision
4.25      The JAE will have the overall responsibility for the execution and
supervision of road rehabilitation, for the carrying out of routine road main-
tenance, for the procurement of highway maintenance, workshop and engineering



- 15 -
equipment, for the execution and supervision of works for the Covilha bypass
and for the training component of the project. The daily supervision of
construction of the Covilha bypass will be done by the JAE's staff in the
Central Regional Office (see Organization Chart) under the guidance of the
Directorate of Construction in JAE's Head Office. The MTC, CP, and JAE will
each be responsible for the efficient use of consultants providing technical
assistance within their organizations. The MTC, CP, JAE, the consulting firms
and possibly the Ministry of Planning will be represented in a steering com-
mittee, chaired by the MTC, which will coordinate the transportation planning
efforts. The above arrangements were discussed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations and should lead to satisfactory results.
Land Acquisition
4.26      The JAE has indicated that the land acquisition for the Covilha
bypass and access roads is expected to be completed early in 1977, i.e. prior
to the scheduled award of a contract in March 1977.
Procurement
4.27      Contracts for the road rehabilitation works under the pilot pro-
gram will be based on unit prices and will be awarded after competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures. The local procedures require
that invitations to bid be advertised in the local press. However, although
under the local procedures foreign contractors are allowed to bid, no notifica-
tion of the bid invitation is made to the local representation of any foreign
country. Because it is most unlikely that foreign contractors would be
interested in the relatively minor individual paving contracts and also
taking into consideration that the work will be spread over about 80 road
sections during a three-year period (1977-79) and that the presence of about
ten local paving contractors, capable of executing this kind of work, assures
adequate competition, the application of local procedures for contracting
work of this nature is satisfactory.
4.28      The road maintenance, workshop and engineering equipment will be
procured after international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." Bids will be evaluated on the basis of
compliance with the specifications and on the basis of price, delivery time
and service facilities.
4.29      A construction contract on the basis of unit prices for the Covilha
bypass road will be awarded after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement". The contractors will be
qualified at the time of evaluation of the bids. The contract will include
a price escalation clause. It is expected that a local contractor will win
the bid.
4.30      The technical assistance will be carried out by consultants and
according to Terms of Reference, both satisfactory to the Bank.



- 16 -
Project Implementation Schedule
4.31      The rehabilitation works in the Lisbon region will be spread over
a period of about three years, beginning early in 1977 and ending late in
1979. Bids for highway maintenance, workshop and engineering equipment are
expected to be invited at the end of 1976 and in the beginning of 1977. De-
liveries should begin in the fall of 1977 and be completed before mid-1978.
Bids for the construction of the Covilha bypass road will be invited in the
fall of 1976 and a contract is expected to be awarded in March 1977. The
bypass road is expected to be opened for traffic at the end of 1978. The
wearing course will be laid after a one year consolidation period and final
completion will, therefore, be at the end of 1979. The technical assistance
is expected to begin early in 1977 and to last until the end of 1979. The
implementation schedule as shown in Annex 4 was discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
G. Disbursements
4.32      The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed on the
following basis:
(i) 40% of the cost of the rehabilitation works in the Lisbon
region, representing the estimated foreign exchange cost;
(ii) the actual foreign exchange costs (C.I.F. Lisbon) of im-
ported equipment and 100% of the ex-factory price (before
taxes) of locally manufactured equipment;
(iii) 33% of the cost of the civil works of the Covilha bypass
and access roads, representing the estimated foreign ex-
change cost;
(iv) the actual foreign exchange costs of the consulting ser-
vices; and
(v) the actual foreign exchange cost of training for JAE's
staff.
4.33      Should any funds remain in the loan account after project comple-
tion, such funds would be used for the financing of additional pavement works
under the road rehabilitation program.
4.34      A schedule of estimated cumulative quarterly disbursements is shown
in Annex 5, assuming that the loan would become effective in February 1977.
During negotiations the Government and the Bank discussed and agreed the dis-
bursement schedule.



- 17 -
H. Environmental Impact
4.        The Covilha bypass road will reduce traffic noise, air pollution
-nd iraffic congestion in the urban area of Covilha. The other project ele-
ments will not significantly affect the environment.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.01      The technical assistance component of the proposed project will as-
sist the Government of Portugal to initiate integrated national transport
planning as a whole and to improve modal transport planning for highways and
railways.
5.02      The proposed road rehabilitation would reduce transport costs in,
primarily, the Lisbon region. In this region as in Portugal generally, a
number of highways have deteriorated to the point where they need recondition-
ing in order to make it practically possible to maintain them with a "normal"
(regular) amount of maintenance effort. Some of these roads, in fact, even
with intensive maintenance, will break up under the present traffic load
unless they are rehabilitated. Benefits from such rehabilitation will in-
clude not only savings in vehicle operating cost but also savings in ordinary
(regular) maintenance costs.
5.03      The road maintenance program will improve highway maintenance ca-
pabilities which are relatively small in relationship to the demands engen-
dered by growing traffic and an extensive highway net, much of which is in
poor condition. Economic benefits from improved maintenance will include
savings in transport costs since, under the existing level of maintenance
effort, traffic serviceability of many highways will further deteriorate,
some to the point of major failures.
5.04      The proposed Covilha bypass and access roads would take National
Route 18, a trunk road connecting (south-north) the cities of Portalegre,
Castelo Branco, Covilha and Guarda, which now passes through Covilha and the
town of Teixoso by an extremely sinuous alignment, around both Teixoso and
Covilha. Not only would the bypass reduce the overall length of the section
for through traffic from 19.0 km to 14.3 kn, it would also greatly improve
conditions for local and urban traffic and improve safety and urban amenities
by removing this heavy stream from a narrow and poorly aligned city street
through the center of Covilha. Further, the existing highway would provide
much better service to local traffic when the through traffic diverts to the
bypass.



- 18 -
5.05      The training component of the proposed project will provide the
JAE staff with additional strength in an area critical to highway planning
and will reinforce the benefits of technical assistance.
5.06      In general the benefits from the investments proposed under this
loan will accrue to the economy of Portugal as a whole. In terms of traffic
demand they are sound (economic) investments to meet that demand. Under
present conditions the benefits from the proposed highway investments will
probably accrue directly both to the state, which, through nationalization
of the banks and some industries has indirectly acquired a significant por-
tion of the trucking industry, and to individuals who own the remainder of
the trucking fleet and passenger vehicles. The extent to which benefits
to truckers will be "passed down" depends on continued competition in the
industry, which is now quite competitive and Government taxing and pricing
policies (para 2.12). The benefits to passenger vehicles will cover a wide
range of income groups, including riders of public transport, employer owned
and private cars, reflecting the diversity of traffic using the highways.
Public or private, however, the passenger car user, with fuel prices among
the highest in Western Europe (Tables 8 and 9) and other taxes and charges,
evidently more than pays his way.  The Government has estimated that in 1973
(the latest year for which figures are available and a time in which gasoline
prices were less than 1/2 of those today) total revenue from taxes and other
charges on road transport amounted to approximately Esc. 5,730 million, while
total expenditures on national and local roads amounted to only about Esc.
1,200 million. Therefore, it is apparent that highway users as a whole more
than pay their way and that there is no hidden subsidy of highway transport.
B. Economic Evaluation
(a) Road Rehabilitation
5.07      At this time the National Civil Engineering Laboratory has only
completed field studies and testing of two highway sections. These two
sections (National Route 2 from Gestosa to Viseu and National Route 11 from
22.0 km to 32.2 km) have been evaluated by the JAE using the methodology
agreed with the Bank (Annex 6).
5.08      The 35.0 km long section of National Route 2 between Gestosa and
Viseu has been divided into five different links. Present average daily
traffic on these links varies between 2,250 and 4,389 vehicles, with from
18.7% to 13.4% of the traffic being trucks. The economic return (ER) for
the five links varies from a low of 20% to a high of 75% (Table 11).
5.09      The 10.2 km section of National Route 11 to be rehabilitated was
divided into three links based on the road inventory of JAE. All links have
the same average daily traffic, 5,990 vehicles of which 14.9% (890) are
trucks. On the basis of the above methodology the ER varies from 37% to
89% (Table 11).



- 19 -
5.10       Since only present traffic was used in the analysis these may be
considered minimum values for these sections.
(b) Road Hlaintenance
5.11      Benefits from improving routine road maintenance include savings
in transport costs and savings in periodic maintenance by extending the time
between resurfacing. The economic justification of routine maintenance, based
on an analysis for the 1973, 10-year highway investment plan by the consultant,
Dorsch, shows an economic return of over 50% over a 10-year period for routine
maintenance investments in Portugal (Annex 7).
(c) Technical Assistance
5.12      Although the standard measures of economic justification cannot
realistically be applied to the Technical Assistance component of the pro-
posed project, it is a critical element in establishing total transport
investment needs which is the sine qua non for a sound development of the
transport sector and an economically efficient allocation of funds to the
sector. Therefore, though modest in monetary terms, this aspect of the
proposed project is essential to the project.
(d) Covilha Bypass and Access Roads
5.13      All projected traffic on the proposed bypass is expected to re-
sult from diversion of existing traffic using the present alignment of
National Route 18 through Teixoso and Covilha. No generated traffic has
been projected. Traffic over the present alignment has grown from about
240 motor vehicles per day entering and leaving Covilha (i.e. excluding
purely "town" traffic) in 1950 to well over 2,000 vehicles per day (2,650
north of Covilha, 2,200 south of Covilha) in 1975. About 11% of the total
is truck traffic. Based on past traffic growth over this highway and past
and projected growth of the motor vehicle fleet in Portugal, traffic for
passenger cars has been estimated to grow at a rate of 6% per year from
1975-80 and a 5% per annum between 1980 and 1995. Growth of truck traffic
has been projected at an annual rate of approximately 3.4% from 1975-80 (18%
for the five-year period), at 3.0% from 1980-85 (16% for 5 years), 2.7% (14%
total) from 1985-90 and 2.3% (12% total) fron 1990-95.
5.14      The benefits from the proposed road construction are calculated
on the basis of savings in vehicle operating costs (VOC), time costs for
commercial trips, and the difference in road maintenance cost with and with-
out the project. Since no generated traffic was projected, there may be
a slight understatement of benefits but such additional benefits are not
critical to the analysis. Comparisons between costs of using the existing
and the proposed road were made by comparing the five different courses
(routes) that various movements of traffic would take. Details are shown
in Annex 8.



- 20 -
5.15      Based on VOC and business time savings only, the project would
have an economic return of 20.6% and a first year benefit (FYB) of about 19%.
If projected traffic were to be 20% higher than the best estimate the economic
return would rise to 24.2% and the FYB to about 23%. If projected traffic were
to be 20% less the ER would fall to 16.5% and the FYB to about 15%. If (eco-
nomic) costs of construction were to increase 20% and projected traffic to
fall 20% below the base used the ER would be 15% and the FYB about 12% (Table
12). Consequently the proposed Covilha bypass construction is economically
justified.
(e) Training
5.16      The direct training element of the proposed project (para. 4.18)
seeks to strengthen the JAE's planning expertise. As such, the training
element, like the Technical Assistance element cannot really be measured by
the standard yardsticks of economic justification. But, it too, is a cri-
tical element of the project and in the long run one which may be a signifi-
cant factor to the success of the effort.
(f) Overall Economic Return
5.17      Each individual road section in the proposed project which is
accepted for rehabilitation will have an ER of at least 12%, and since the
overall routine maintenance investment will have an ER of about 50% the over-
all ER for the three quantifiable elements of the proposed project (i.e.
rehabilitation, maintenance and construction) will have a minimum ER of 21%.
Estimated costs for these three quantifiable elements represent 93% of total
estimated cost of the project. Since at least some of the road sections for
rehabilitation will have much higher than the 12% minimum assumed here (paras.
5.08 and 5.09) the overall ER will undoubtedly be substantially greater than
the minimum shown above. Further, the rehabilitation and maintenance projects
will generate additional benefits in terms of introducing basic methods and
techniques for routine and special maintenance programs which are expected to
finally be extended to the country as a whole.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal issues:
(a) the Government will submit the technical and economic feasi-
bility of rehabilitating each individual section of the road
rehabilitation program for the Bank's approval before the
start of the rehabilitation (para 4.06);



- 21 -
(b) the Government shall provide the JAE sufficient funds to
enable JAE to execute the 5-year routine maintenance
program in the Lisbon region (para 4.12); and
(c) the Government shall provide through the MTC, CP and the
JAE an adequate number of qualified staff for the prepara-
tion of the transportation, railway and highway plans
(para 4.17);
6.02      The project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$24 million equivalent
to the Republic of Portugal for a 15-year term, including a three-year grace
period.
October 1976






TABLE
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Portuguese Railways: Revenues and Expenditures 1969-74
(Esc. Millions)
1969     1970      1971      1972      1973     1974 2
Revenue
Passengers             749       811       823       874      965    1,134
Baggage                  5         6         6        11       11        10
Freight                387       417       385       421      450       523
Postal Transport        19        22        35        35        20       19
Miscellaneous             6        7         5         4        -3/      -3
Totall/         1,166    1,262          1,254     1,344    1,447    1,666
Expenditures
Working Expenses
Personnel              710       812       854    1,004    1,010    1,761
Social Charges         346       331       355       392      340       291
Materials              265       253       293       270      276      (593
Services                53        80        84        90      117      (
Subtotal        1,374    1,476    1,576    1,756    1,743    2,635
Other Expenses
Depreciation 4/         22        24        23        25       87        73
Taxation                80        87        86        92      100       100
Debt Services 4/       380       494       578       663      270       302
Subtotal 1/       488       605      687       780       457      475
Total           1,856    2,081    2,273    2,536    2,200    3,120
Financing
Financial Deficit    -680       -819   -1,019   -1,192       -753   -1,454 5
Government Subsidies  507        672       816      675       608      n.a.5
Other receipts          21        69        37       57        36     n.a.
Balance          -162       -78     -166      -460      -409     n.a.
1/ Totals may not add because of rounding
2/ Preliminary estimate
3/ Less than Esc. 0.5 million
4/ The accounting system does not distinguish clearly depreciation
charges from debt service charges.
5/ n.a. means not available
Source:  Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses
September 1976



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
National Highway Network
Length in
Classification                                        km
Four-lane Divided Highways                         66
Class I Roads                                   5,626
Class II and III Roads                         12.558
Total                                     18,250
Type of Pavement
Asphalt Concrete and Asphalt
Surface Treatment                            16,380
Cement Concrete                                    57
Stone Paved                                     1,150
Water Bound Macadam                               383
Earth Roads                                       280
Total                                     18,250
Source: Junta Autonoma de Estradas
September 1976



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Motor Vehicle Fleet
(Vehicles in actual use)
Year          Light Vehicles -/           Heavy Vehicles             Total
1968             380,520                      31,085                 411,605
1969             434,320                      32,979                 467,299
1970             492,040                      33,469                 525,509
1971             560,620                      35,000                 595,620
1972             632,800                      36,800                 669,600
1973             707,000                      38,000                 745,000
1974             800,400                      39,600                 840,000
1975             906,000                      41,200                 947,200
1/ Automobiles, Pick-ups, etc.
2/ Trucks and Buses
Source: Estimates by the Junta Autonoma de Estradas
September 1976



TABLE 4
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTTMaAL
Highway Expenditures for National Network 2
(Esc. in Millions)
Capital           Current
Year                           Expenditures       Expenditures      Total
1963                              374                 107             481
1964                              299                 108             407
1965                              350                 112             462
1966                              343                 110             453
1967                              355                 128             483
1968                              396                 133             529
1969                              511                 135             646
1970                              478                 181             659
1971                              581                 214             795
1972                              511                 225             736
1973                              543                 276             819
1974                              694                 407           1,101
1975                            1,169                 484           1,653
I] Excluding expenditures for local roads and city streets.
Source: Junta Autonoma de Estradas
September 1976



TABLE 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Highway Maintenance and Related Equipment
to be financed by the Loan
Highway Maintenance Equipment
No. of    Unit Price    Total       Total Foreign
Description              Units    incl.taxesl/incl.taxesl/    Cost-!
----------  US$  000-
Dumptruck                          40         31.8        1,272         1,071
Flat bed truck                     43          28.6       1,230         1,036
Van                                 8           7.5           60           50
Light dumper                       45           5.7          257          215
Self-propelling water tanker
5 cu. m.                     4          15.7           63            54
Self-propelling bitumen tanker
0.6 cu. m.                  20           7.1          142           124
4-wheel drive vehicle               2         10.0           20            17
Road marking truck                  1        178.6          179           161
Road marking machine                9           3.2          29            25
Compressor for road marking         4          2.5           10             9
Dumper with concrete mixer          3         14.3           43            37
Crane truck                         1         35.7           36            31
Workshop truck                      1          67.9           68           59
Light passenger vehicle            28           3.8         106            92
Bitumen distributor truck           2         32.1           64            56
Bitumen storage tank                3           6.1          18            16
Vibrating roller  0.6 t            30           6.5         195           148
Tandem vibrating roller  6 t        4         35.6          142           132
Vibrating plate compactor           3           2.1            6            5
Mechanical rammer                   6           1.1            7            6
Backhoe (excavator)                15         75.9        1,139         1,036
Wheel loader                        7          38.6         270           244
Track loader                        4         49.1          196           179
Emulsion mixer                      7           2.3          16            14
Small hot asphalt mixer             3         53.6          161           139
Asphalt paver                       2          34.2          68            62
Motorgrader                         1         62.1           62            55
Compressor with pneumatic hammer  1           11.4           11            10
Motorsaw                           30           0.5          15            14
Mechanical broom                    6         13.8           83            74
Mechanical mower                   15           2.1          32            27
Motor pump                          7           2.3          16            14
Total for Highway Maintenance Equipment              6,016         5.212
cont'd



TABLE 5
Page 2
Workshop Equipment
No. of    Unit Price      Total    Total Foreign
Description              Units    incl.taxes  incl.taxes       Cost
-------------  US$  000
Milling machine                    1          13.0           13          11
Equipment for axle alignment       1           7.0            7           6
Test equipment for diesel
injection pumps                 1          21.0          21           18
Shearing equipment for
steel plates                    1           7.0           7            6
Fork lift truck                    1          16.0           16          14
Total for Workshop Equipment                           64           55
Equipment for Soils Laboratory
Pavement skid resistance test
apparatus                       1          63            63           55
La Croix deflection apparatus      1          92             92          80
Mobile road roughness indicator   1           58             58          50
Survey vehicle for road
inventory                       1          58            58           50
Miscellaneous lab equipment                                  75          65
Total for soils laboratory equipment                  346          300
Traffic Counting Equipment                                  127         110
Grand Total for Highway Mainte-
nance and Related Equipment                        6,553        5,677
I/ Estimate based on end of 1975 prices.
Soilrcv: Junta Autonoma de Estradas
September 1976



TABLE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Design Characteristics of Covilha Bypass Road
Unit
Type of Terrain                                          Rolling
Design speed                               km/h             100
Maximum Gradient                            %                 6
Road Width                                  m                 7.00
Width of Shoulders                          m                 2.50
Minimum Horizontal Curves                   m               400
Minimum Vertical Curves - Summits           m              9000
- Sags            m              4500
Maximum Single Axle Load                    t                10
Type of Wearing Surface                                  Asphaltic Concrete
Bridge Loading                            Vehicle class A (60 t) according
to Portuguese Regulations.
Source: Consultants Lusotecna
September 1976



TABLE 7
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Project Cost Estimates
Escudos Million                US$ Thousand/l           % Foreign
Exchange
Item                      Local  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign  Total         Component
I.    Road Rehabilitation                         386.6   260.0   646.6        13,178   8,864  22,042             40
Contingencies:/2
Physical                                  38.7    26.0    64.7         1,318      886   2,204           40
Price Escalation                          85.1    57.2   142.3         2,900   1,950   4,850            40
Total I                                     510.4   343.2   853.6        17,396  11,700  29,096            40
II.   Equipment                                    27.2   176.6   203.8           929   6,018   6,947             87
Contingencies:
Price Escalation /3                        3.6    23.3    26.9           123      794     917           87
Total II                                     30.8   199.9   230.7         1,052   6,812   7,864            87
III.  Highway Construction /4
Covilha bypass road and access roads    135.3    66.6   201.9             4,610   2,272   6,882            33
(17.9 km)
Contingencies:/2
Physical                                  13.5      6.7    20.2          461      227     688           33
Price Escalation                          24.7    12.2    36.9           842     415   1,257            33
Total III                                   173.5    85.5   259.0         5,913   2,914   8,827            33
IV.   Technical Assistance
Ministry of Transportation and
Communications                              5.3    21.0    26.3           179      717     896           80
Railways                                      3.8    15.0    18.8           128      512      640          80
Junta Autonoma de Estradas                    7.3    29.3    36.6           250      999   1,249           80
Contingencies:
Price Escalation 15                        2.3      9.1    11.4           78     311      389           S0
Total In                                     18.7    74.4    93.1           635   2,539   3,174            0
V.    Training                                       0.1      1.0     1.1            4       35      39          90
Total I - V                                 565.6   569.5 1,135.1       19,278  19,417  38,695             50
(excluding contingencies)
Contingencies:
Physical                                  52.2    32.7    84.9        1,779   1,113   2,892            38
Price Escalation                        115.7   101.8   217.5         3,943   3,470   7,413            47
Total I - V
(including contingencies)                733.5   704.0 1,437.5        25,000  24,000  49,000            49
/1   US$ 1 = Esc. 29.34
/2   Physical:  10%.  Escalation: for local and foreign costs: 13% for 1976, 12% for 1977, 1978, and 1979.
/3   Escalation:  for foreign costs:  9% for 1976, 8% for 1977 and 1978.
/4   Estimate excludes the cost of land acquisition (US$ 0.15 million), project preparation (US$ 0.16 nillicn),
and project supervision (US$ 0.05 million).
/5   Fscalation:  for local and foreign costs: 8% for 1976, 1977, 1978 and 1979.
Source: Mission Estimates, August 1976
September 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Fuel Prices per Litre
(in escudos)
1~
Exchange Rate
Date                     Gasoline              Gasoline                                      (US$wEsc.)
in effect                Super Grade        Regular Grade           Diesel Fuel                 approx.
August 4, 1967              6$50                5$60                   2$60                      29.0
January 5, 1970             6$50                5$60                   2$30                      29.0
April 1, 1971               6$70                5$70                   2$40                      29.0
November 8, 1973            7$50                6$30                   2$60                      23.0
February 4, 1974           11$00                9$50                   3$40                      25.0
August 19, 1974            12$50               11$00                   4$00                      26.0
December 30, 1975          17$50               15$00                   4$00                      25.0
Note: 6$50 is Portuguese notation for Esc. 6.50 etc
1/ IMF, "International Financial Statistics", various
Source: Director General Combustiveis, March 25, 1976                                                                >
September 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Fuel Prices per U.S. Gallon
(US$)
Exchange Rate
Date                Gasoline             Gasoline                                      (U.S.$- Esc.)
in effect          Super Grade        Regular Grade           Diesel Fuel                approx.
August 4, 1967        0.85                0.73                    0.34                      29.0
January 5, 1970       0.85                0.73                    0.30                      29.0
April 1, 1971         0.87                0.74                    0.31                      29.0
November 8, 1973      1.23                1.04                    0.43                      23.0
February 4, 1974      1.67                1.44                    0.51                      25.0
August 19, 1974       1.82                1.67                    0.58                      26.0
December 30, 1975    2.65                 2.27                    0.61                      25.0
Note: Calculation made on basis of 1 U.S. gallon 3.785 liters
1/ IMF, "International Financial Statistics", various
Source: Director General Combustiveis, March 25, 1976
September 1976



APPRAISAL UF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Fuel Consumption by Highway Vehicles
(in liters)
1970            1971             1972            1973              1974             1975
Regular Gasoline      226,580,100      233,729,500     236,105,800      242,153,100      244,000,000       260,000,000
Super Gasoline        408,652,700     481,566,800      567,173,600      670,370,100      640,000,000       763,000,000
Total Gasoline        635,232,800      715,286,300     803,279,400      912,523,200      884,000,000   1,023,000,000
Diesel Fuel           491,443,100      555,750,700      628,351,700     711,100,500       739,501,800      786,000,000
Total            1,126,675,900   1,271,037,000   1,431,631,100   1,623,623,700    ,623,501,800   1,809,000,000
Source: Junta Autonoma de Estradas
September 1976
tTJ



TABLE 11
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
The Economic Returns (ER) for Road Rehabilitation
National Route 2
between
Gestosa and Viseu
Present Traffic
Light                   Traffic Growth
Section     Vehicles      Trucks         Assumed              ER
331         3799         590            none               74.7
332         2444         455            none               37.1
333         2282         445            none               44.3
334         2102         435            none               27.9
335         1830         420            none               19.7
National Route 11
between
22.0 km and 32.2 km
1          5100         890            none               36.7
2          5100         890            none              88.9
3          5100         890            none              55.4
September 1976



TABLE 12
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
The Economic Return (ER) for Construction
of Covilha Bypass and Access Roads
Traffic Growth                      Construction Cost
Projections                            Estimate                   El
Low                                 Medium 4/                   16.5
Low                                 High 5                      15.0
Medium 2/                           Medium                      20.6
High 3/                             Medium                      24.2
1/ 20% lower than medium rate
2/ The most likely case. Projected at 6% per annum from 1975-80
and 5% per annum between 1980 and 1995 for passenger cars, 3.4%
per annum from 1975-80, 3.0% per annum from 1980-85, 2.7% per
annum from 1985-90 and 2.3% per annum from 1990-95 for trucks.
3/ 20% higher than medium rate
4/ Actual estimated cost, without contingencies
5/ 20% higher estimate
September 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Ministry of Transportation and Communications
Technical Assistance in National Transport Planning
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        In order to provide an economically rational framework for transport
investment in Portugal the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) pro-
poses to develop and periodically update a 15-year national transport master
plan. The plan is to consist of a fairly detailed five-year plan and an in-
dicative plan for an additional ten years. To assist in the development of
the Transport Master Plan and in the formulation of transport policies, the
MTC proposes to utilize the services of selected experts. The cost of these
consulting services is expected to be financed as part of an International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) loan.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
2.        The MTC proposes to invite consultants to provide approximately
100 man-months of technical assistance over a three-year period to help de-
velop criteria, analytical tools and procedures for the planning and evalua-
tion of transport investments and policies and for formulating a comprehensive
transport master plan, including procedures for the continuous updating of the
plan. In addition, the MTC may require about 12 man-months of technical as-
sistance in presently unidentified areas (para.7). The MTC will provide
qualified counterparts and the services and facilities as described in
Part V.
3.        The consultants shall review the present transport planning crite-
ria and assist the MTC In developing the criteria and analytical tools for
the formulation of a transport master plan. For this purpose the cnsultants
should be prepared to assist MTC in establishing a system of data collection
and processing, including a computer data processing capability, or a basis
for developing the necessary inputs for a transport master plan in coordina-
tion with the various transport sector agencies such as, for example, the
Junta Autonoma de Estradas (JAE) and the Portuguese Railways (CP). In this
context, the consultants will monitor the compatibility of data development
and assist the MTC In establishing the basic framework (geographical and
statistical) for the collection of transport and economic data to be used by



ANNEX 1
Page 2
all transport agencies. This will include, but not be limited to, the devel-
opment of common input formats, basic analysis zones, standard terminology,
units of measurement, etc.
4.        If the consultants recommend in their proposal the use of a comput-
erised transportation model as a multi modal planning tool, capable of treat-
ing the transport system as an integrated network, they should provide evi-
dence that the model is operational and was tested in previous operations.
The consultants should also describe in detail how the model can be used for
the preparation of a highway master plan, as described in Chapter B of the
T.O.R. for technical assistance in Highway Planning and Development, and for
the freight and passenger analysis as described in paras. 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of
the T.O.R. for technical assistance to the Portuguese Railways. In the case
of utilization of a transportation model, the procedures for the setting up,
running and utilization of the model will be done by a working group consist-
ing of representatives of the C.P., the JAE and the MTC, under the responsi-
bility of the MTC. The consultants will be expected to install the model on
JAE computer (or facilities designed by the JAE). The computer programs used
in the model will be given to MTC including the documentation (i.e. users and
operators manuals, input forms, etc.) necessary to permit the working group to
run the model.
5.        The consultants shall also be prepared to provide MTC with technical
assistance in reviewing the model inputs provided by other agencies for the
national transport plan, and help coordinate the work in the design and imple-
mentation of a coding system (zones, modes, links, fleets, products) which
will facilitate the interchange of survey data between modal agencies.
6.        The consultants will include in their proposal the assignments of
experts to assist the MTC in reviewing the economic aspects of transport re-
lated matters which shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) a review of the current policies, regulations and organiza-
tions related to transport;
(ii) the measures needed to improve the performance and the
development of the transport sector as a whole, the
coordination among the modes and the performance of the
individual modes;
(iii) the evaluation of major investment proposals for the trans-
port sector, as well as for the individual modes; and
(iv) the coordination between the implementation of the master
plan for the transport sector and of the plans for other
sectors of the economy in respect of timing and geographical
location.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
7.        The consultant may also be called upon to provide specific expertise
in various transport areas such as air transport and shipping as required by
the MSEE.
III. TIMING AND STAFFING
8.        The technical assistance is to be carried out over a three-year
period. It is expected that initially only one or two experts will be re-
quired to work closely with the staff of the Secretario de Estudo dos Trans-
portes in reviewing and developing transport planning criteria. These experts,
possibly a senior transport economist and senior transport planner, would be
expected to remain in Portugal over a good portion of the three-year period.
It is expected that the other experts would generally remain in Portugal for
shorter, but significant portions of time with only a limited number of
short-term experts being used.
IV. REPORTS
9.        The consultants shall submit the following reports (in English
unless otherwise noted):
a.   A Progress Report every two months, describing the work carried out
during the previous two months and the scheduled work program for the follow-
ing two (or more) months. The report shall include details on the consultants
staff on the project including a current and projected staff bar chart. 15
copies to the Government.
b.   An Interim Report within 18 months of the Starting Date which shall
include an overall review of the progress achieved over the last 18-month
period and recommendations involving transport policy and planning. It will
specifically include a users' manual and operators' manual for the transporta-
tion model, if any, for use in Portugal. 15 copies to Government. In addi-
tion, 15 copies of the users' and operators' manual alone will be prepared in
Portuguese for the Government.
c.   A Draft Final Report, within 36 months of the Starting Date detail-
ing: (1) work performed; (2) progress made in implementing recommendations;
(3) benefits resulting from recommendations; (4) areas in which progress has
been unsatisfactory; (5) comments on criteria and procedures for transport
planning and a master plan; (6) recommendations involving transport policy and
planning; and (7) recommendations for any further technical assistance to MSEE
or other agencies which is considered necessary. Ten copies to Government.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
d.   A Final Report within two months of receipt by consultants of com-
ments on Draft Final Report from the Government, incorporating all revisions
deemed appropriate by the consultants, 25 copies to Government.
e.   Special Reports as required and agreed to by Government.
V. LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED BY GOVERNMENT
10.       To be decided upon by Government.  Ordinarily would include office
space for the experts to work directly with MSEE staff, and might include
local travel for official purposes, necessary office equipment and supplies,
office staff, and printing of all but Final Report.
11.       It is preferable that the Government detail exactly what services
and facilities it is prepared to supply before proposals are invited so
consultants may make their estimates of staff requirements and local costs
accordingly.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
PORTUGUESE RAILWAYS
Technical Assistance in Railway Planning
Draft Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Portuguese Railways (CP) are interested in preparing a rehabili-
tation plan for the Company in the middle term (6 years) which encompasses, in
a coherent manner, the different stages of a policy which has as its aim the
balancing of the receipts and expense accounts. The consultants will assist
in introducing a comprehensive planning system and in preparing the plan.
1.2       The study team must take into account governmental transport poli-
cies which are based upon the optimum utilization of the existing means of
production and which run as follows:
(a) to establish competitive conditions, in a social perspective,
among alternative transport modes;
(b) each transport mode is to bear the actual economic cost of the
services rendered, which will be reflected in the ralative
level of the tariffs; and
(c) the state must reimburse each transport mode for the services
rendered on demand of the Government being useful to the public.
This policy will be followed and coordinated by the Planning Department of the
Ministry of Transport and Communications.
1.3       Before the preparation of the rehabilitation plan and side by side
with the necessary analysis of the present situation, the following actions
need to be performed:
(a) traffic analysis to help CP come to a conclusion on the effec-
tiveness of an investment policy and to the identification of
the steps which must be taken in the course of the plan in order
to allow CP to develop a sound marketing plan;



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(b) studies of a cost system organization aiming at both proj-
ect appraisal and the establishment of a tariff policy
based on costs.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
2.1 Generalities
2.1.1     The studies must cover all the lines operated by the
Portuguese Railways including the Cascais line and
all the activities concerned.
2.1.2     The consultants working on this project shall work
directly with the specialists of the Gabinete de
Planeamento Economico (GPE) and they shall report
to and be directly responsible to the Director of
GPE.
2.1.3     The different points of view between the consultant's
experts and the Director of GPE which cannot be re-
solved will be submitted to the opinion of the Board
of Directors of CP. If after the arbitration there
is not any convergence of opinions, the secretariat
of the Board shall prepare a document in which will
be described the positions taken.
2.1.4     CP takes the responsibility to furnish the experts
with all the internally or externally available in-
formation, either that prepared by the Company or by
other consultants, in order to avoid the duplication
of studies undertaken before.
2.2 Study of the Present Situation
2.2.1     The experts, in connection with the GPE of the Ministry
of Transport and Communications, will determine the
present situation of the Company, and perform a critical
analysis of it, in order to identify the main weak points
and bottlenecks, including the following areas:
(a) administrative structure and regulations;
(b) infrastructure: network, stations, workshops, sig-
nalization, and so on;
(c) rolling stock: locomotives, wagons, and so on;



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d) methodologies used to define the investments and
projects;
(e) different operating methods;
(f) finances;
(g) tariffs.
2.2.2     A report will be written at the conclusion of this task.
2.3 Traffic Analysis
2.3.1     Freight Analysis
(a) The freight demand study should provide high, low, and
"most likely" estimates of demand for rail service for
each principal commodity for each year covered by the
investment program as well as for the 10th and 15th
years in the future.
(b) The following general analysis procedures should be
used (but should not be limited to):
for each principal commodity, obtain past
and present tonnages and the principal
origin-destination (0-D) flows;
consult major shippers (and/or receivers) of
each principal commodity and obtain their es-
timates of future tonnages to move by rail,
and their O-D flows;
consult appropriate ministries (i.e., industry,
energy, agriculture, etc.) to obtain their es-
timates of future rail tonnage of principal
commodities, and their O-D flows;
consult Planning Ministry to obtain estimates
of national, regional, local, and sectoral
growth to be used in the longer-range traffic
estimates; and
estimate the effects of changes in service or
tariffs on the amoujnt of each commodity that
would be carried by rail.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(c) Utilizing the commodity tonnage data, an additional table
(or maps) should be prepared to show the freight tonnage
that would be hauled on the principal links of the rail-
road network for the 5th, 10th and 15th years in the
future. These estimates should also be made on a high,
low, and "most likely" basis.
2.3.2     Passenger Analysis
(a) Passenger demand studies should be carried out for each
of the following categories of service:
intercity corridor services (i.e., Lisboa - Coimbra -
Porto and Lisboa - Algarve)
suburban services (in vicinity of Lisbo and Porto)
other short, medium, and long-distance services, in-
cluding international services
(b) The studies should provide high, low, and "most likely"
estimates of demand for each year covered by the invest-
ment program as well as for the 10th and 15th years in
the future.
(c) The following general analysis procedures should be used:
obtain past and present ridership statistics, where
available, for each route, for each of the applicable
modes of transports:
1.   railway
2.   automobile
3.   local bus
4.   intercity bus
5.   airline
where statistics are not available, develop estimates
of present traffic;
obtain estimates (high and low) of population growth
expected in the cities and regions served by the
various services;
consult with appropriate Ministries to determine the
effects of ongoing and proposed local and regional
development plans;



ANNEX 2
Page 5
taking into account the points referred before, develop
estimates of total travel demand in the areas covered
by each of services;
* . taking in account relative fares, travel times, access
times, departure frequencies, and ride quality (comfort)
develop estimates of the number of rail trips and trips
by other modes.
2.3.3     The estimates of rail passenger ridership should be used for the
following:
to determine the phasing of rolling stock acquisitions
and physical plant improvements needed to carry the
forecasted traffic.
taking the results of the freight demand study case into
account, determine what capacity problems will be en-
countered and improvements are required to alleviate them.
2.4 Cost Accounting System
2.4.1     Objectives:
The main objective of implementing an Analytic Accounting System
in CP is to enable CP to obtain operating costs by types of
rendered service. It seems that the present Budgetary Accounting
System, even that is now implemented, is not able to answer the
expected exigencies, because of its periodic accounting pro-
cedures. It is doubtful that even through the natural evolution
of this accounting system the desired objectives can be achieved,
even if the present budgetary sections were divided further. It
is convenient, however, when an analytic accounting system is to
be implemented, to take advantage of most of the inputs that
support the present budgetary accounting system.
2.4.2.    Program of Work
The implementation of the analytic accounting system requires the
definition of the following areas:
- Main areas (Passengers - suburban, intercity corridor, inter-
national, other - and freight - train load, wagon load, sun-
dries)
- Support areas (Maintenance of equipment, fixed installations,
marketing and general services)



ANNEX 2
Page 6
The data for these areas can be obtained at present, from
available inputs, through a reformulation and detailing of
the present budgetary sections.
Consultant assistance, therefore, is required for the fol-
lowing tasks:
- Determine the feasibility of achieving an analytic ac-
counting system which exploits the present budgetary ac-
counting system
- Define costs to be calculated and the methodology to
obtain them
- Elaborate the Accounting sections (main and support)
that shall constitute the plan of division of the
Company into sections
- Define and evaluate the physical measures of productions
- Determine the methodology to distribute structural costs
of the company
- Develop a plan for the education of personnel, necessary
to implement the system
- Assist for a reasonable time in introducing the system
2.5 Establishing a Railway Rehabilitation Plan 1977/1982
2.5.1     Taking into account traffic forecasts already made, the experts
will make their critical analyses by comparing them with the
information available on the traffic and the present operating
condition and they will determine the necessary means to meet
the forecast traffic for the years 1977/1982 regarding the fol-
lowing points:
(a) improvement of the operating procedures: methodology for
developing the transport plans;
(b) manpower plan;
(c) determination of uneconomical lines, stations or services;
(d) requirement for new facilities for freight traffic mar-
shalling yards goods terminals, new lines and developing
of private branches and junctions, etc.;



ANNEX 2
Page 7
(e) establishing of new types of services;
(f) traction and rolling stock plans;
as well as all the measures which are considered necessary to the
the attaining of those aims.
2.5.2     For each of the measures proposed the experts must help the
G.P.E. in the following fields:
(a) identify all the necessary changes, and estimate the
cost of investments;
(b) determine the precise extent of the projects and the
planning of their execution;
(c) prepare for the implementation of the projects.
2.5.3     Specifically the experts must help the G.P.E. in the following
fields:
(a) make a survey of the situation of the network as
regards track, signalization and terminals and to
define the infrastructure which needs to be changed,
taking into account the future supply capacity
required for the future demands;
(b) make a survey of the rolling stock, the maintenance sys-
tems and the necessary investments, taking into account
the operating conditions and the traffic development;
(c) inspect the conditions and the necessary changes to the
maintenance workshops;
(d) propose changes which may be necessary to improve the
operating procedures.
(e) select alternatives to be considered.
(f)  establish priorities of future investments.
2.5.4     For each one of these recommendations the experts will help in
determining costs and benefits and the making of feasibility
studies including both economic and financial analyses of the
proposed investments.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
2.5.5     The proposed solutions must be grouped in a six year plan 1977/
1982 which should also show investments on a year-to-year basis.
For the period including the years from 1977 to 1979 the proposed
measures must be subjected to detailed studies.
2.5.6     The plan must include 3 parts, which must be fully integrated,
namely:
(a) one part concerning the investments;
(b)  one part summing up the goals to be reached and the
organizational measures necessary to assure the best use
of the existing facilities and of the new investments;
i.e., an Action Plan
(c) one part showing in detail the resources for financing
the proposed plan, or any shortfalls to be secured.
2.6 Scheduled program
The development of the aforementioned tasks must be done according to the
scheduled program on the following page.
2.7 Need of experts
For the aforementioned studies it is thought that the colaboration of about
80 man-months is necessary, of which about 50% shall be spent in Portugal.
ITI. MISCELLANEOUS
3.1 The experts must speak one of the following languages: Portugueses,
French or English.
3.2 The experts while staying in Portugal, shall adopt the work schedule
used in CP.
3.3 CP will reimburse the Consultant for all lodging expenses in Portugal on
the presentation of the respective bills, and CP will provide transporta-
tion within Portugal
3.4 CP will assure the Consultant all the external contacts which they con-
sider necessary in order to attain their objectives.
3.5 The Consultant shall prepare an inception report one month after signing
the contract, and it shall describe in detail the study plan as agreed
to by CP.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
3.6  The Consultant shall prepare a draft final report within _     months.
Comments from CP, the Portuguese Government, and the World Bank shall
be furnished within    weeks of the submission of the draft final report.
The Consultant shall prepare the final report, taking into account the
comments, _ weeks after this.
3.7 The draft final report and final report must be written in English.
3.8 The Consultant shall coordinate its work with that of the consultants
providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport and Communi-
cations.
3.9 If the Consultants recommend in their proposal the use of any computer
programs or models, they should provide evidence that the programs or
models are operational and have been utilized in previous studies.
IV. PRESENTATION OF INITIAL PROPOSALS
4.1 All proposals must be submitted within 45 days in accordance with the at-
tached "Supplementary Information for Consultants".



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Republic of Portugal
Technical Assistance in Highway
Planning and Development
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        In order to provide an economically rational framework for highway
investment in Portugal the Junta Autonoma de Estrados (JAE) proposes to develop
and continually update a detailed five-year program of highway investment based
on economic priorities and a prospective program of highway investments for an
additional ten years. In conjunction with the development of this highway
master plan the JAE intends to improve the organization of the JAE, methods of
road maintenance, management and utilization of JAE's mechanical equipment and
operational efficiency of existing regional and district workshops as well as
establish any necessary additional workshops. The JAE also intends to estab-
lish and/or improve necessary staff training schemes to help insure the trained
personnel necessary for it to function effectively.
II. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A. General
2.        In order to help attain the objectives detailed above the JAE pro-
poses to invite consultants to provide approximately 156 man months of techni-
cal assistance over a two-year period in highway planning (approximately 57
mm), administration (approximately 40 mm) and maintenance (approximately 59
mm). The cost of these consulting services is expected to be financed as part
of an International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) loan.
The Consultants shall perform the functions and services herein described. In
performance of the services the Consultants shall cooperate fully with the
Government, which is to assign counterpart personnel to work in close coopera-
tion with the Consultants and provide the data and services outlined in Part
V. The Consultants shall, however, be solely responsible for the findings and
recommendations contained in their reports.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Highway Planning
3.        The Consultants shall review present planning for highway invest-
ments and, in coordination with the Planning Department of the JAE develop
the methodology for preparing a highway master plan to provide a detailed
five-year program of highway investment and a prospective program of highway
investment for an additional 10 years which will be amenable to continuous up-
dating. The consultants should give in their proposal of detailed account of
the methodology they recommend to use in preparing the highway master plan.
If their recommendations include the use of a computer model they should pro-
vide evidence that the model is operational and was tested in previous opera-
tions and they should be prepared to assist JAE in establishing and running
a computer data processing center. The Consultant will also be expected to
install the model on JAE computers (or facilities designated by the JAE) and
calibrate it to the Portuguese highway network, assisting JAE in developing
the necessary inputs to the model and training JAE highway planners in the
use of the model as a tool in development and updating of a highway master
plan. All computer programs used in the model will be given to JAE along with
the documentation (i.e., users and operators manuals, input forms etc.) neces-
sary to permit JAE personnel to run the model.
4.        The highway planning technical assistance experts will also assist
JAE in establishing standard procedures for the collection and analysis of
traffic data (volume and classification counts, speed studies, travel time and
delay studies, intersection counts, capacity studies and origin and destination
surveys), criteria for individual highway investments, evaluation of current
highway user charges and recommendations as to appropriate modification to
such charges needed to ensure that each vehicle bears its fair share of the
cost of resources used to provide highway transport facilities for it. In ad-
dition, the planning technical assistance experts will help JAE to provide
data and analysis for national transport planning necessary for Government of
Portugal to make the best use of all modes of transport at the lowest overall
total cost of resources. The Consultants will coordinate their work with the
other model agencies and their Consultants in the design and implementation
of a coding system (zones, modes, links, fleets, products) which will facili-
tate the interchange of survey data and policy decisions between model agen-
cies.
C. Highway Administration
5.        The Consultants will assist JAE in the establishment and implementa-
tion of a general accounting procedure which will provide a functional cost
accounting for all major elements of highway planning, design, construction
and maintenance including accounting for depreciation of shop and field equip-
ment.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
6.        In conjunction with cost accounting the Consultants will assist the
JAE to integrate accounting procedures with costing and budgeting. The Con-
sultants will prepare necessary training instructions and direct training in
the accounting system use as necessary, providing the requisite system docu-
mentation and control for computerization of all accounting systems to the
largest extent practical.
7.        The Consultants shall assist JAE in the development of the staffing
and organizational structure of each department including the development of
job descriptions indicating the general qualification necessary to adequately
fill the required professional positions. On the basis of these job descrip-
tions the Consultants will assist JAE in evaluating recruiting and training
requirements and will assist in the development of a training program as
necessary.
8.        The Consultants will recommend to JAE any improvements in the
organizational structure of the JAE which they believe could have a significant
effect on operation and/or administration of JAE as a whole or of its compo-
nent parts in a realistic and practical sense.
D. Highway Maintenance
9.        In conjunction.with the development of a highway master plan (see
"B" above) and after a review of the present maintenance procedures and capabi-
lities, the Consultants will assist JAE as necessary in preparing annual main-
tenance programs and budgets and updating the general five-year maintenance
program. The Consultants will recommend to JAE such changes in procedures and
operations for routine and periodic maintenance as will result in an optimal
utilization of the equipment, facilities, manpower and material presently
available to JAE, including the use and/or disposal of the construction equip-
ment now in the possession of the Junta.
10.       In conjunction with general cost accounting procedures (see "C"
above) the Consultants will help the Junta develop a program of cost accounting
for highway and equipment maintenance.
11.       The Consultants will review the inventory of existing JAE workshops
and workshop equipment and spare parts and assist the Government in preparing
a net shortfall list of workshop machine and hand tools to be procured under
the Bank portion of the project.  A list of workshop equipment needed on a
priority basis will be developed by the Consultants for inclusion in their
first Progress Report (see IV below).
12.       Taking into acocunt the future highway program and highway mainte-
nance requirements, the Consultants shall review JAE's present procedures for
subcontracting some mechanical repair work to private firms and JAE's existing
workshop practices and shall recommend:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
(a)  The extent to which mechanical repair work should be sub-
contracted in future and how such work should be supervised
and documented;
(b)  an annual financial program for operating each category of
workshops;
(c)  type (level) of work each category of workshop should under-
take;
(d)  types of equipment and spare parts to be held at each cate-
gory of workshop;.
(e)  desirable improvements to existing workshop facilities and
operation;
(f)  a program of inventory control and spare part procurement
for use in regional and district equipment workshops;
(g)  workshop job control systems, with necessary internal re-
organization of existing workshops to achieve a smooth flow
of work; and
(h)  a program for the repair or replacement of existing workshop
machinery and tools.
13.       The Consultants shall assist the JAE in providing for a continuous
updating of their inventory of maintenance equipment, including data on (i)
locaton of the equipment; (ii) classification by type, manufacture and capa-
city; (iii) the condition of the equipment and an estimate of remaining useful
life; and (iv) the need for repairs. The Consultants shall also assist the
Junta in the preparation of an equipment replacement/acquisition program, the
preparation of bidding documents for the procurement of maintenance equipment,
machinery, spare parts, etc. and the analysis of bids.
14.       The Consultants will assist the JAE in assessing the training
requirements necessary to provide the skills for the projected maintenance
(field and shop) program, and make recommendations for the development of
formal training programs.
III. TIMING AND STAFFING
15.       The technical assistance is to be caried out over a two-year period.
It is expected that most of the experts will remain in Portugal over a good
portion of the two-year period with only a limited number of short-term experts
being used.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
16.       The three aspects of this technical assistance program may be under-
taken by a Consulting firm or may be split between two firms, one providing
the technical assistance for highway planning and the other for highway
administration and maintenance. The latter two aspects of technical assist-
ance may not be split between firms. All aspects must be closely coordinated.
IV. REPORTS
17.       The Consultants shall submit the following reports (in English unless
otherwise noted):
A. Highway Planning
1.   A Progress Report at two-month intervals, describing the
work carried out during the previous two months and proposed
work program for following months. The report shall include
a summary and general statement on progress in the development
of the highway master plan, any problem areas or delays envi-
saged and proposed remedial action. The report shall include
details on Consultants staff on the project including a cur-
rent and projected staff bar chart. Ten copies of the report
to Government, 10 copies to the Bank.
2.   An Interim Report within 12 months of the Starting Date.  This
report shall include an overall review of the progress achieved
over the last 12 month period, including such standard proce-
dures for traffic studies and surveys recommended and/or adopted,
evaluation of user charges, etc. It will specifically include
a users' manual and an operators' manual for a highway trans-
portation model (interurban systems) for use in Portugal. Ten
copies to Goverrunent, 10 copies to the Bank. In addition, 15
copies of the users' and operators' manual alone in Portuguese
will be prepared for the Government.
3.   A Draft Final Report, within 29 months of the Starting Date
detailing (a) work performed; (b) progress made in implementing
recommendations; (c) benefits resulting from recommendations;
(d) any areas in which progress has been unsatisfactory; and
(e) recommendations for any further technical assistance in
highway planning to the JAE considered necessary. Five copies
to Government and 5 copies to the Bank.
4.   A Final Report within 2 months of receipt by Consultants of
comments on Draft Final Report form the Government, incor-
porating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants.
Fifteen copies to Government and 5 copies to the Bank.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
5.   Special Reports as required and agreed upon by Government
(at least 5 copies to the Bank).
B. Highway Administration
1.   A Progress Report at two-month intervals, describing the work
carried out during the previous two months and proposed work
program for the following months. The report shall include a
summary and general statement on progress in the development
of functional cost accounting procedures and job descriptions,
any problem areas or delays envisioned and proposed remedial
action. Ten copies to Government and 10 copies to the Bank.
2.   An Interim Report within 12 months of the Starting Date.  This
report shall include an overall review of the progress achieved
over the last 12 month period including job descriptions devel-
oped, development of cost accounting, etc. Ten copies to Gov-
ernment and 10 to the Bank.
3.   A Draft Final Report, within 22 months of the Starting Date
detailing (a) work performed; (b) progress made in implementing
recommendations; (c) benefits resulting from recommendations;
(d) any areas in which progress has been unsatisfactory; and
(e) recommendations for any further technical assistance in
highway administration to the JAE considered necessary. Five
copies to the Government and 5 copies to the Bank.
4.   A Final Report within 2 months of receipt by Consultants of
comments on Draft Final Report from the Government, incor-
porating all revision deemed appropriate by the Consultants.
Fifteen copies to Government and 5 copies to the Bank.
5.   Special Reports as required and agreed to by Government (at
least 5 copies to the Bank).
C. Highway Maintenance
1.   A Progress Report at two-month intervals describing the work
carried out during the previous two months and proposed work
program for the following months. The report shall include
a summary and general statement on progress in the prepara-
tion of the annual maintenance program and budget, the updating
of the five-year maintenance program and the development of a
program of cost accounting for highway and equipment maintenance.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
2.   An Interim Report within 12 months of the Starting Date.
This report shall include an overall review of the progress
achieved over the last 12 month period including recommenda-
tions for an annual financial program for operating each
category of workshop should undertake, types of equipment
and spare parts at each category of workshop, improvements
to existing workshop facilities, and a program of inventory
control and spare part procurement for use in the workshops.
3.   A Draft Final Report within 22 months of the Starting Date
detailing (a) work performed; (b) progress made in imple-
menting recommendations; (c) benefits resulting from recom-
mendations; (d) any areas in which progress has been unsatis-
factory; and (e) recommendations for any further technical
assistance in highway maintenance to the JAE considered neces-
sary. Five copies to Government ald 5 copies to the Bank.
4.   A Final Report within 2 months of receipt by Consultants of
comments on the Draft Final Report from the Government, in-
corporating all revisions deemed appropriate by the Consultants.
Fifteen copies to Government and 5 copies to the Bank.
5.   Special Reports as required and agreed to by Government (at
least 5 copies to the Bank).
V. LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED
BY THE GOVERNMENT
18.       To be decided on by Government.  Ordinarily might include office
space for experts, local travel (i.e., in Portugal but not home to office or
office to home travel) for official purposes, necessary office equipment and
supplies, secretaries, clerks and other office staff as needed and printing
of all but Final Report.
19.       It is preferable that the Government detail exactly what services
and facilities it is prepared to supply before proposals are invited so Con-
sultants may make their estimates of staff requirements and local costs ac-
cordingly.



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
_                                                         ~~~~          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1976  1977  1978                                1979                         1980
IT EM                                ACTIVITY                             ACTION BY                                       T
_=/S    0N     J  PM]AN    JJ A S  0  NO1     FM  A M  J      AS   050 D    FM  AM   I JAS D
I BANK LOAN                  1 01 SIGNING L OAN AGREEMENT                       GOVT/BANK
1 02 LOAN AGREEMENT EFFECTIVE AND CLOSING DATE   GOVT/BANK
2 ROAD REHABICITAT(ON        201  INVITATION FOR BIDS                           GOVT
202  EXECUTION                                     GOVTICONTRACTDRS
2 PURCHLASE OF EQUIPMENT     351 INVITATION FOR BIDS                             GOVT
3 02 EVALUATION AND AWARD OF CONTRACTS             GOVT,BANIS
303 DELIVYRIES OF COUIPMENT                        GOVT,SUPPLIFRl
4 COVILVA BYPASS ROAD        4 01 ADVERTISEMENTS                                 GOVT
402  PREPARATION OF BlDS                           CONTRACLORS
4 03 EVALUATION AND AWARD OF CONTRACTS             GOVT'BANK                                _                                                                                                LWRSE
4 04 CGNSTRICTION                                  GOVT/CONTRACTORS
5 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO    V Ol  INVITATION OF CONSULTANTS                    GOVT                  O
MIN OF TRANSPON TATION       02 PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS                      CONSULTANTS G
AND COMMUNICATIONS
s 3  EVALUATION ANS AWARD OF CONTRACT              GOVT,BANK
S 04 EXECUTION                                     GOVT/CONSULTA\TS
5 05 REVIEW                                        GOVT/BANK
6 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO   6 01  INVITATION OF CONSULTANTS                      GOVT                 -
RAILWAYS                  60 02 PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS                      LONSIJLTANTS
6 03  EVALUATION AND AWARD OF LONTRALT             GOVT!BANK
B 04 EXECUTION                                     GOVT'CONSULTANTS
6 05 REVIEW                                        GOVT/BANK
7 TECHNILAL ASSISTANCE TO   70l INVITATION OF CONSULTANTS                       GOVT                             0
JUNTA AUTONOMA DE         1 02 PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS                       CONSULTANTS
CVTRADGAS
7 03 EVALUATION AND AWARD OF CONTRACT              GOVTABANK E
7 24 EVECUTION                                     GOVT/CONSULTANTS
7 05  REVIEW                                       GOVT/BANK
8 TRAINING                   001  SELECTION OF TRAINING COURSES                  GOVT
8 02 REVIEW OF THlE GOVERNMENTS PROPOSALS           BANKI
8003 ATTENDANCE OF TRAINING COURSES                 GOVT
AWr,O Ba-1 l6IB3IR)I






AMZEY 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement at
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter             End of Quarter (US$ million)
1976/77
June 30, 1977                                        1.4
1977/78
September 30, 1977                                   2.6
December 31, 1977                                    5.4
March 31, 1978                                        7.8
June 30, 1978                                       12.2
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                  17.4
December 31, 1978                                   18.2
March 31, 1979                                      19.6
June 30, 1979                                       21.0
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                  22.4
December 31, 1979                                   23.5
March 31, 1980                                      24.0
Source: Mission estimates



ANNEX 6
Page I
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Methodology for Making an Economic Evaluation of
Road Rehabilitation Projects
A. Introduction
1.        Essentially there are two steps in determining the economic via-
bility of a highway investment, or of any investment. The first step con-
sists of determining the least (economic) cost alternative, the second the
determination of that alternative's economic justification.
1. Alternatives
2.        For purposes of evaluating the proposed road rehabilitation proj-
ects for Bank financing it will be necessary to determine what are the
"real" 1/ alternatives. One of course is the "do nothing" solution. Another
might be to increase regular maintenance effort (patching, etc.).  A third
could be to construct a new road. All that are "reasonable" or "reasonably
possible" solutions should be considered.
C. Economic Costs
1.        After establishing the possible alternatives their (economic) costs
should be considered. These costs may be considered in three categories.
The first is the direct investment (construction) cost. The second is main-
tenance cost, and the third, user costs (i.e. direct costs to the users of
the roadway). The preferred alternative must be the least total--cost alter-
native.
2.        Unfortunately (for the analyst) costs over the particular link
being studied may not be directly comparable. This is because, in comparing
the alternatives, we are not necessarily comparing the same traffic. Thus,
the "do nothing" alternative will probably involve, as road condition further
deteriorates, some traffic diverting to other roads while the "new road"
1/   "real" in terms of practical, authentic, sensible solutions.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
alternative, or even the "rehabilitation" alternative may involve traffic
being diverted to the improved link and possibly even some generated traffic.
So, in a real sense, the total cost picture must be examined in terms of the
network including the costs to traffic and links (maintenance cost increases
or decreases) to which traffic is diverted to and from.
D. Benefits
1.        However, leaving aside this particular problem for the moment, once
the least cost alternative is determined on the basis of "least total cost",
(construction, maintenance and user costs) in terms of present worth based on
the opportunity cost of capital 1/, then the second step is to measure the
benefits which can be expected to accrue to the Portuguese economy as a whole
from the planned investment.
2.        As a practical matter benefits are generally measured, for this
type of improvement, as user costs savings plus any differences in mainte-
nance costs. 2/ The question is, what alternative (to the proposed improve-
ment) should be considered? It appears logical to consider costs to the
user (plus differences in maintenance costs) with the road "rehabilitated"
and costs that would occur under normal maintenance but without rehabilita-
tion. But one must be careful here, for it is not logical to assume that,
as the road deteriorates (or perhaps, disintegrates) that the same amount of
traffic will continue to use it. What is more probable is that traffic will
divert over time to other roads and/or modes where costs may be higher than
present cost but less than future costs on the link being studied. Even if
there are no practical alternatives a point may well be reached where traffic
will decrease as costs become to high to justify the particular traffic move-
ment.
E. Simplifying Assumptions
1.        Obviously then, the analysis is not simple or necessarily limited
to one link. However, it is not always necessary to determine the "exact"
rate or return of B:C ratio. What is critical is to determine if the invest-
ment is the "best" alternative and if it is justified. Since this program
1/   The "present" may be moved to any date in the computation.  The import-
ant thing is that costs (and benefits), or, more properly the cost and
benefit stream, be compared on the basis of a "present" sum established
by use of the opportunity cost of capital (i.e. the "real" interest
rate).
2/   This could be positive or negative.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
is essentially aimed at providing a pavement overlay for selected, high
priority roads several simplifying assumptions may be made.
2.        First of all, in considering alternatives, even if the decision
to build a new road were made in the immediate future, the time needed for
a feasibility study, design, land acquisition, and construction makes it
highly unlikely that any new road could be open to traffic before an addi-
tional five years has passed. More probably the time interval between deci-
sion to build and opening a new road to traffic would be even greater. Since
any asphalt road carrying its designed traffic can be expected to require a
pavement overlay in 6-10 years it is probable that the link to be rehabili-
tated would require another resurfacing by the time a "new" road was ready for
traffic. Therefore, by limiting the analysis to a eight year period the al-
ternative of a "new" road need not be considered.
3.        In line with the continued overall growth in traffic over the high-
ways in Portugal, traffic over a particular link probably would experience
some growth, other things being equal, over the analysis period. However, as
the road condition deteriorated some traffic would shift (divert) to other
links; and, if the link under study were improved some traffic might divert
from other routes (links) to it. A simplifying assumption, probably on the
conservative side as far as developing benefits goes, would be to use pre-
sent traffic through the period of analysis on all alternatives considered.
If this is done, then it only remains to estinate user costs, maintenance
costs and improvement costs under each possible alternative (which will
really involve only different levels of maintenance and rehabilitation) to
establish the least cost alternative.
F. Analysis
1.        Once the least total cost alternative is known, and of that alter-
native is, in fact, the provision of an overlay (i.e. rehabilitation), bene-
fits can be developed using some of the same simplifications.
2.        Present traffic could be considered to continue through the whole
eight years period of analysis, both under improved and "existing" conditions.
However, it should not be assumed that the "existing" surface will deterio-
rate at a rate consistent with that traffic and the present maintenance ef-
fort. Rather, the least cost path (solution) between increasing regular
maintenance and increasing user costs should be considered. In a practical
sense, this would probably mean that both user costs and maintenance costs
(patching, etc.) will go up but overall the total will be less than the user
cost increase alone whicih could be expected at present rates of maintenance.
3.        However, unless traffic is expected to decrease in the future, it
really is not necessary to develop the internal rate of return and/or a B:C



ANNEX 6
Page 4
ratio for each propos2d rehabilitation investment. A FYB 1/ calculation would
ordinarily be required to justify the timing of the investments. If traffic
is not expected to decrease it is then obvious that a FYB high enough to jus-
tify the opening year will indicate the general validity of the rehabilitation.
4.        For determining the least cost alternative an opportunity cost of
capital of 12% probably is about right, and should be used at the present time.
5.        In using the above methodology, with its simplifying assumptions,
care must be taken not to apply it to links where special conditions make it
inappropriate. For example, there might be a situation where a new road,
which will result in diversion of traffic from the link being considered, is
under construction. In such a case traffic projections must take this into
account and an internal rate of return over the 8-year period calculated.
Nevertheless, for most cases it is expected that the methodology described
will provide a fairly accurate evaluation of the economic justification of
rehabilitation for the selected links to be considered.
1/   The FYB compares benefits in the first year to the present worth of
investment costs (which, have, will be essentially the cost of re-
habilitation.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
Economic Justification of Routine Maintenance
1.        The economic justification for some level of routine maintenance is
apparent. Costs of preventing, through maintenance, the failure of a roadway
are less than the costs of periodic rebuilding of the roadway. Thus, if the
construction, or reconstruction, of the roadway is economically justified it
is also economically justified to maintain the road. However, the "optimal"
level of routine maintenance depends on the marginal costs of increasing
maintenance effort vis-a-vis the decrease in user costs and decrease in peri-
odic maintenance. In the theoretical sense this will vary between various
roadway sections, depending on the various incremental costs and benefits. As
a practical matter a level of effort which will maintain a paved road near the
level of traffic serviceability to which it was constructed is economically
justified.
2.        The proposed expenditure for maintenance and shop equipment aims at
making it possible for the JAE to increase maintenance effort generally, so
that roadways are kept closer to an adequate level of traffic serviceability
than is now possible. If maintenance expenditures and effort were to continue
at about their present level, the roads in the project area would deteriorate
further and the costs of operating vehicles over them would increase above
their already relatively high level. Further, total maintenance costs could be
expected to increase since accelerated surface deterioration would require
earlier investment - and, over the long term, more frequent investment - in
overlay(s).
3.        It would, at least theoretically, be possible to increase the
maintenance effort without the proposed investment in "machine" equipment by
the greater use of manpower and hand tools. In the past modest volumes and
relatively low traffic speeds allowed labor intensive maintenance to be
relatively efective. However, this is no longer possible with higher taffic
and increased speeds. Labor intensive maintenance of the national highway
links to a level necessary to prevent their deterioration would, in fact,
adversely affect the capacity of the links to carry traffic. The amount of
manpower required to maintain highways with a medium amount of traffic to an
adequate level of traffic serviceability, even if it could be effectively
controlled and coordinated (and this would require a considerable addition of
skilled manpower in terms of superintendents, foremen, timekeepers, hand tool
repairmen, storekeepers, etc.) would, in itself, result in a lowering of
traffic serviceability. Physical limitations on the concentration of manpower



ANNEX 7
Page 2
would necessitate a spreading out of the work force. Maintenance at any one
'pot would, therefore, require more time so that, to the extent that the
maintenance effort interrupted or slowed traffic service would be reduced,
and on links with substantial traffic, reduced drastically.
4.        Although the necessity for maintenance operations per se, can be
taken for granted, a general analysis of the economic returns for routine
maintenance of the carriageway has been made by the consultants, Dorsch in
their study for the 1973, 10-year highway investment plan (para. 3.08). The
analysis assumes an efficient use of machines and labor in the maintenance
operations, and bases benefits on user costs savings only, neglecting in-
creased costs of resurfacing which would be engendered by poor maintenance.
Further, the analysis assumes the original road surface to be asphalt concrete
in "new" condition. Only 10% of the national highway network is asphalt con-
crete, the rest being lower grade construction, and certainly much less is
in "new" condition. Nevertheless, the Consultants indicated that the second
year savings in user cost, equal maintenance cost and from the third year
exceed them. The Consultants figures show an ER of more than 50% over a
10-year period.



ANNEX 8
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUG.AL
Covilha Bypass
Routing of Traffic
Proposed vs. Existing
PEDRINHA Bridge
S   D0  CARMO                                                                                /                 _
*  ,                                                                            Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~End of
Bypass
\\XO                                   /                               /Pooe
TEIXOSO                                                            /
/I1-_ Proposed   S  do Carmo - End of Bv-
pass
a
COVILHA         --Existing   S  do Carmo-Teixoso-
_____________   Proposed                                                                   Covilha-Pedrinha Bridge-
End of Bypass
a
Existing                                                                  2 -Proposed   S  do Carmo-Covilha
a
- -Existing   S  do Carmo-Teixoso-Covilha
3 -Proposed   Covilha-End of Bypass
- -Existing   Covilha-Pedrinha Bridge-
End of Bypass
a
4 -Proposed   S  do Carmo-Bvpass-Teixoso
'a
- -Existing   S  do Carmo-Teixoso
5 -Proposed   Teixoso-End of Bypass
- -Existing   Teixoso-Covilha-Pedrinha
Bridge-End of Bypass
SeDt5mBer 197c



APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
PORTUGAL
ORGANIZATION OF THE JUNTA AUTONOMA DE ESTRADAS
| PRESIDENT    .
DIRECTORATE OF            DIRECTORATE OF
CONSTRUCTION              MAINTENANCE               DIRECTORATE OF              DIRECTORATE OF                                        OFFICE OF STUDIES
AND TRAFFtC               BRIDGES                     RURAL ROADS                OFFICE OF                  AND PLANNING                ADMINISTRATION
- PROJECTS                                                            BRIDGE ACROSS                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACCOUNTING AND
- GEOTECHNICAL             - ROAD MAINTENANCE        - PROJECTS                   PROJECTS                      AG S                          STUDIES                 PCRONNEL
- EXECUTION OF WORKS       - TRAFFIC                 - EXECUTION OF WORKS         EXECUTION OF WORKS                                         PLANNING                    SONNEL
- EXPRESSWAYS                EQUIPMENT
REGIONAL OFFICES
NORTH (Oporto)
CENTRAL ICormbra)
LISBON
SOUTH lEcora)
SUBDIVIDED IN
18 DISTRICTS
* Local authorities are responsible for rural roads
Thr junta corirrbores 35. of rhe cost of co,srruc-tro
and s r.spoesrble for the design and supervision -f the
World Bani-157031R)






f ~ ~  ~    ~    ~   ~    A   A f f*~                                RKACANCS  (
=              i                                                                  xm
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 20 30 4 _1                      KILMEER
HGWAYS YSTE             So                      FOA.,
- 0   RE AD     D eWDORR,AJDNDt
.ONUNRAbVCJ Fj R UNDOR WDRO
;~~~~~~~~~~~~A                        D        R X I    <           A   ? N
dS;'' W0'S^f---,  <s'''=t'~~~~~~T-
~ U
PORTUGAL           i       -                                                       ALGERIA
HIGHWAY SYSTEMV    rX0 <\                                      21  E3       33L"TE
L  MAIE var S -   / !5,   4   , $ -    C wst o Mrimk  ~~~~~11  OROCO   ACGERI



