CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1334 Po
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated. March 3, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 3, 1977, between REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a) "JAE" means Junta Autonoma de Estradas, an agency of
the Borrower, or any successor thereto.
(b) "CP" means Companhia dos Caminhos de Ferro Portugueses,
a corporation established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, or any successor thereto.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
four million dollars ($24,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in ac-
cordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1980 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the prin-
cipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound financial, engineering and administra-
tive practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B, D and E of the
Project through JAE.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) hereof, the Borrower shall provide JAE sufficient
funds to enable JAE adequately to carry out its 1977-1981 routine
maintenance program in the Lisbon region.
Section 3.02. There will be included in Part A of the Project
only the road sections the rehabilitation of which shall have been
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank on the basis of the cor-
responding technical and economic feasibility studies.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall provide, through the
Ministry of Transport and Communication and JAE or otherwise, and
shall cause CP to provide, qualified staff in adequate numbers for
the preparation of the plans in the transportation, railway and
road sectors.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower shall make contractual arrangements with
CP, r t later than 3 months after the Effective Date, providing:
(i) for the carrying out by CP of Part C of the
Project, to the extent that CP will be the
beneficiary of the technical assistance therein
included;
(ii) for the transfer to CP of the 1unds withdrawn
from the Loan Account in respect of expenditures
by CP under Part C of the Project; and
(iii) without limiting or restricting the obligations
of the Borrower to the Bank, for the transfer
by CP to the Borrower of such amounts as the
Borrower will be required to pay to the Bank
in respect of such withdrawals.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part C of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall, through JAE or otherwise, and shall cause CP to: (i)
employ experts in the field of transportation whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank, to provide consulting services to its Ministry
of Transport and Communications, JAE and CP; (ii) afford the Bank
an adequate opportunity to comment on such experts' reports and to
exchange views thereon with the Borrower, including JAE's staff,
and CP.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
general design standard to be used for the road included in Part


﻿D of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, con-
tract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Proj-
ect, and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto,
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.08. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect the progress and cost of
the Project and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall


﻿-8-
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out Part E of the
Project in accordance with a program satisfactory to the Bank, and
shall, through JAE, furnish to the Bank such information on the
proposed training courses, and in such detail, as the Bank shall
reasonably request.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless tle
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitution-
al or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with res-
pect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or ad-
ministrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no
cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 10 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by any institution performing
the functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund,
or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project o' any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times adequately
maintain and repair, or cause to be adequately maintained and
repaired, all roads for which the Borrower has, directly or through
the JAE, m.aintenance responsibilities, all in accordance with ap-
propriate eugineering standards and with due regard to financial
and economic requirements. To this effect, the Borrower shall pro-
vide JAE, prompt.,: cs needed, the funds, facilities and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
ensure that the dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using its


﻿- 11 -
road system shall be consistent with the structural and geometric
design standards of such roads.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date June 1, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time being
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist'rio das Finangas
Lisboa
Portugal
Cable address:
Ministgrio das Finangas
Lisboa
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF PORTUGAL
By /s/ Joao Manuel Hall Themido
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M.P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Rehabilitation             10,000,000         40% (represent-
works for Part                               ing the estimated
A of the Project                             foreign exchange
component)
(2) Road maintenance,           6,500,000        100% of foreign
workshop and engi-                           expenditures or
neering equipment                            100% of the ex-
factory cost
(3) Consultants' ser-           2,300,000        100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(4) Civil works for             2,700,000        33% (represent-
Part D of the                                ing the estimated
Project                                      foreign exchange
component)
(5) Staff training for             40,000        100% of foreign
Part E of the Proj-                          expenditures
ect
(6) Unallocated                 2,460,000
TOTAL      24,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the ter-
ritory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category


﻿- 17 -
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
A.   A program of rehabilitation of the national roads in the
Lisbon region, and of other high priority national roads
as agreed from time to time by th,- Borrower and the Bank,
during the years 1977, 1978 and 1979.
B.   Provision of road maintenance and workshop equipment for
a program to improve road maintenance in the Lisbon region;
and of engineering equipment.
C.   A program of technical assistance to reinforce transporta-
tion planning in the Ministry of Transport and Communica-
tions, and to improve planning and operational procedures
in the administration of railways and highways.
D.   Construction of a two-lane bypass road of Covilhi, of about
14.3 km.
E.   A post-graduate training program in transportation planning
and traffic engineering for staff members of the JAE.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1980.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
On each December 1 and June 1
beginning December 1, 1979
through   June 1, 1991                        1,000,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six
years before maturity                    3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.4o%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                    7.55%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.70%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the rehabilitation work included in Part A of
the Project shall be awarded under the Borrower's ordinary com-
petitive bidding procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.if. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other ex-
penditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 22 -
2.   Goods manufactured in Portugal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Portu-
gal if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Portugal equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Portugal.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be


﻿- 23 -
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fir-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any


﻿further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shell, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it letermines that the in-
tended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Bo-rower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards of Covilha9 Bypass Road
Unit
Design speed                       km/h             100
Maximum Gradient                    %                 6
Road Width                          m                 7.00
Width of Shoulders                  m                 2.50
Minimum Horizontal Curves           m               400
Minimum Vertical Curves - Summits   m             9,000
- Sags      m             4,500
Maximum Single Axle Road            t                10
Type of Wearing Surface                      Asphaltic Concrete
Bridge loading                     Vehicle class A (60 ton)


