Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12864-EE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
NAY 5, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =     Estonia Kroon (EEK)
1 US$        =      13.5 EEK
I EEK        =      US$ 0.074
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gigacalorie (Gcal)       =      1 million kilocalories (kcal)
1 gigacalorie (Gcal)       =      1.16 megawatt-hour (MWh)
1 gigawatt (GW)            =      1 million kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)      =      1 million kilowatt-hours (kWh)
1 megawatt (MW)            =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 joule                    =      0.24 calories (cal)
1 metric ton               =      1.000 kilograms = 2,205 pounds (Ibs)
1 kilometer (kmn)          =      1,000 meters (m) = 3,281 feet (ft)
1 meter (m)                =      3.281 feet (ft)
1 centimeter (cm)          =      10 millimeters (mm)
I milimeter (mm)           =      0.1 centimeter (cm)
1 cubic meter (r3)         =      35.3 cubic feet (c ft)
1 ton of coal equivalent (tce)  =  7 x 106 kilacalories (kcal)
I petajoule (PJ)           =      34,129 tons of coal equivalent (tce)
1 petajoule (PJ)           =      0.275 terawatt-hour (TWh)
1 terawatt (TW)            =      1 billion kilowatts (kW)
ACRONYMS
CHP           =     Combined-Heat-and-Power
CPAR          =     Country Procurement Assessment Report
DH            =     District Heating
EBRD          =     European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIB           =     European Investment Bank
EU           =      European Union
FSU                 Former Soviet Union
GDP          =      Gross Domestic Product
GPN          =      General Procurement Notice
GOE          =      Government of Estonia
G24          =      Group of 24
HFO           =     Heavy Fuel Oil
ICB           =     International Competitive Bidding
IERR          =     Internal Economic Rate of Return
LCB          =      Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           =     Limited International Bidding
NGO          =      Nongovernmental Organization
PIU           =     Project Implementation Unit
SOE           =     Statements of Expenditure
UNDP          =     United Nations Development Program
USEPA         =     United States Environmental Protection Agency
ESTONIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN  AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .................................    i
I.      SECTOR BACKGROUND                      ..................1..................... 
A.       Country Context .........................................    1
B.       Overview of the Energy Sector ................................    2
C.       Energy Sector Policy and Strategy ..............................    7
D.       District Heating (DH) Conditions and Priority Needs  ..................   8
E.       Bank Energy Strategy, Past Experience and Project Rationale .............   9
U.      THE PROJECT              .....................11........................   1
A.       Project Origin and Formulation   ...............................  11
B.       Project Objectives ........................................   12
C.       Project Components and Description  ............................   12
D.       Cost Estimates ..........................................   19
E.       Project Financing Arrangements  ...............................  21
F.       Implementation Arrangements  ................................  23
G.       Procurement Arrangements  ..................................  24
H.       Disbursement ........................................ ;                                          26
I.    Accounts and Audits ....................................... 27
J.       Environmental Aspects .             ....................................   29
K.       Supervision  ............................................  31
M.      IMPLEMENTING  AGENCIES                      ................              ....................  32
A.       Estonian State Energy Department ..............................  32
B.       The District Heating Companies  ...............................  32
C.       Estonian State Power Company and its Iru Power Plant  ................  35
IV.    FINANCIAL ASPECTS  ................. .. ......................   36
A.       Past Financial Performance of Project Agencies  .....................  36
B.       Heat Tariffs .        ...........................................   36
C.       Billing and Collection Performance of Project Agencies  ................  37
D.       Future Financial Performance of Project Agencies ....................  37
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS                                  .....................                              40
A.       Project Benefits  .       ........................................   40
B.       Project Risks ............................................    43
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .....                                             .............. 44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                  |



ANNEXES
1 - Statement of Energy Policy and Strategy
2 - Criteria for the Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program
3 - Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu DH Rehabilitation Components
4 - Iru Power Plant Improvement Component
5 - Detailed Cost Estimates
6 - Project Implementation Schedule and List of Procurement Packages
7 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8 - Environmental Aspects
9 - Tartu DH Financial Analysis
10 - Parnu DH Financial Analysis
11 - Tallinn DH Financial Analysis
12 - Iru Power Plant Financial Analysis
13 - Economic Analysis
14 - Supervision Plan
SCHEMATIC DRAWINGS
I - Tallinn DH System
2 - Tartu DH System
3 - Parnu DH System
CHARTS
I - Organization of Estonian State Energy Department
2 - Organization of Parnu DH Company
MAP
IBRD 25690 - Map of Estonia



-i-
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Estonia.
Beneficiaries:      Estonian Power Company and its Iru Power Plant, Municipalities of Tallinn
and Tartu and their district heating (DH) companies, and small municipal
boiler owners.
Loan Amount:        US$ 38.4 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:         Standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 15 years including 5 years
grace.
On-Lending Terms:   As loans to: (a) Tallinn and Tartu Municipalities and Estonian Power
Company in US$ at the IBRD interest rate plus a mark-up, for cross-currency
risk and administration, not to exceed 10% to be repaid over 15 years
including 5 years grace; and (b) to small municipal boiler owners in Estonian
kroons at 10% interest rate to be repaid over 7-12 years including 1-2 years
grace.
Project Description:  The project would reduce fuel costs and import requirements, bring about
energy efficiency and economy in major DH systems; improve environmental
conditions in affected areas; and support the strengthening and restructuring of
DH institutions and development of the energy sector. The Project would
include support for: (a) conversion and replacement of small boilers in small
towns and counties to use local fuels; (b) rehabilitation of DH systems in
Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu; (c) improvement of Iru (CHP, Tallinn) Power Plant;
and (d) institutional support program for project agencies to support project
management and implementation, for restructuring energy agencies and for
further development of the energy sector.
Project Risks:      Project risks include an untested implementation capacity of project agencies,
insufficient local fuel supplies, uncertainty regarding heat tariff increases and
the timetable for restructuring of Tallinn and Tartu DH companies, and the
effectiveness of the new subsidy scheme for households. To minimize these
risks, implementation arrangements would be in place prior to project start-up,
contracts for the supply of local fuels would be entered into for the first two
years, requirements for heat tariff increases would be closely monitored,
support for restructuring is being sought to be put in place as soon as possible,
and the effectiveness of the new subsidy scheme and the performance of
Government in providing the necessary budgetary allocations would be
monitored.



-ii-
Estimated Co:                 Local    Foreig      Total
-------(US$ million)---------
Small boiler conversions        0.98     4.73       5.72
Small boiler replacements       0.71     3.35       4.06
DH rehabilitation components    6.22    26.09      32.31
Iru power plant component      0.48      4.24       4.71
Institutional support           0.04     3.54       3.57
Design/supervision              0.75     2.41       3.16
Base Cost                       9.      44.35      53
Physical contingencies          0.92     4.44       5.35
Price contingencies            2.80      2.82       5.61
Total Project Cost_/           12.89    51.61      64.50
Financing Plan:
World Bank                     6.04     32.36      38.40
Swedish Government              1.87     8.13      10.00
European Investment Bank       0.93      3.47       4.40
Other Donors (grants)          0,00      3.80       3.80
Project Agencies               4.05      3.85       7.90
IQial                          12.89    51.61      64.50
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1995    1929    1997  1998   1999   2000
---------(US$ million)------   ------- -
Annual          3.0    9.0    10.0   10.0   3.0  3.4
Cumulative      3.0   12.0    22.0   32.0  35.0  38.4
Economic Rate of Return: 24%
W Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$ 2.2 million equivalent.



ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Country Context
1.1          In the past three years since Independence, Estonia, a country of 1.6 million people
with a per capita income level of US$ 2,750 in 1992 ', has made enormous strides in the
transformation from a centrally-planned republic to an independent market-oriented economy. Its
small economy had been severely distorted by a half century of central planning and heavy
dependence on the former Soviet Union (FSU), which accounted for about 90% of its trade. To
overcome major structural problems of the economy, far-reaching economic reforms have been
introduced. After initial and expected difficulties experienced in 1991 and 1992 which led to high
inflation and sharp contraction of real GDP, Estonia's reform program has already begun to show
major improvements. The economic decline appears to have been halted in 1993, and GDP is
expected to reach a positive growth rate of about 5-6% in 1994. The annual inflation rate was
substantially curbed to about 36% during 1993, while the unemployment rate was kept below 5% of
the labor force. The currency introduced in mid-1992, the kroon, has remained convertible, while
foreign exchange reserves have more than tripled. A major transformation was accomplished in
foreign trade, with an export increase of 30% in 1993, while the share of foreign trade with the FSU
fell to about 32%. Estonia still faces, however, a difficult reform agenda to complete the transition
process to a sustainable and growing market-based economy. It will be particularly important for the
Government to stimulate the development process by completing the transition in a manner that will
make the country even more attractive to both local and foreign investors.
1.2          The Bank's overall objective is to support Estonia's efforts to accelerate structural
reforms and to undertake efficient investments in high priority sectors. This objective will be pursued
through a combination of lending operations, analytical sector work and aid coordination. It is now
appropriate for the Bank to support Estonia's energy infrastructure, since the economy is at a stage in
the transition process where substantial public investment will be required to overcome the backlog of
deferred maintenance and to reorient the energy sector to address energy conservation and
environment-related issues. Analytical work as well as lending operations would assist the
Government in formulating and implementing a sound public investment program and in coordinating
assistance from other sources. The energy sector is a very high priority area, given the dramatic
price changes which have occurred over the past two years, the dependence on energy imports and
the resulting need for energy conservation and improvements in efficiency of energy facilities. The
proposed project would support the objectives of promoting energy conservation and efficiency
improvements in the district heating (DH) subsector.
1/ At purchasing power parity exchange rates



-2-
B. Overview of the Energy Sector
Economic Significance
1.3           The energy sector is important in the economy for a variety of reasons. It is
significant partly due to the vital role it plays as an input to the industrial sector which contributed
47% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 1990. The sharp increase in energy prices during the past
two years, however, has been a contributing factor to the drastic decline in industrial activity
(estimated at about 30% between 1991 and 1992) and thus overall economic activity. Additionally,
Estonia's energy intensity was estimated in 1990 at about 6-7 times that which would be expected on
the basis of its GDP level as compared to Scandinavian countries, since it had an energy consumption
in 1990 of about 2 tons of oil equivalent per thousand US$ of GDP. Industrial restructuring and
energy conservation measures could assist in reducing Estonia's energy intensity further. For the
first 7 months of 1993, fuel imports were valued at about EEK 925 million (US$ 77 million),
representing 17% of the country's total imports or 8% of GDP. Although the percentage of fuel
imports as a share of total fuels for the energy sector has decreased in recent years, significant
reductions in the import bill could be achieved through fuel switching to domestic fuels and greater
efficiency in the sector. Subsidies to the energy sector are also significant and are a burden on the
constrained budget of the Government. Direct subsidies paid to heat producers and consumers were
about EEK 159 million (US$ 12 million), representing about 5% of total government expenditures in
the first half of 1993. Other subsidies are provided to the oil shale industry and translate into
subsidies in electricity prices; although reliable data of the magnitude of these subsidies is not
available, they are thought to be significant. Investments targeted at reducing energy production and
operating costs would have a positive impact on the need for subsidies to the sector.
Characteristics of the Energy Sector
1.4           Estonia's energy sector is comprised of three subsectors: one energy producing
subsector (oil shale) and two energy conversion subsectors (electric power and district heating). The
key characteristics of the energy sector are: (a) significant domestic primary energy resources,
partially unexploited; (b) a heavy dependence on imported energy resources, primarily oil and gas; (c)
an explosive rise in energy prices since Independence: (d) unaffordable heat services requiring
subsidies to the sector; (e) low technical standards and low efficiency of energy facilities; and (f)
negligence of environmental protection measures.
1.5           Domestic primary energy resources. Although not huge in area, Estonia is relatively
rich in natural resources which can be used for energy production. The world's largest deposits of oil
shale, located in the northeast of Estonia, form the basis for power production and to a lesser extent
heat production. The amount of registered deposits is about 4 billion tons, of which about 1.7 billion
tons are suitable for mining, and annual oil shale production is currently about 20 million tons.
1.6           Peat resources are also large with peatlands covering approximately 1 million hectares
or 22% of the territory of Estonia. On the basis of detailed surveys, it is estimated that 470,000
hectares, distributed over 539 sites, have commercial potential. Peat reserves are estimated at 1.5
billion tons of which 85% are technically suitable for harvesting for use as fuel or fertilizer. A
substantial amount of commercial peatlands have already been drained to facilitate peat production for
the requirements of the FSU. Currently, a total of 156,600 hectares of peatlands are in various types
of protected areas in which peat harvesting is not allowed.



-3-
1.7           Forest resources are substantial as well, covering approximately 1.9 million hectares
or about 42% of the country and constituting 264 million solid cubic meters with an average standing
volume of 144 solid cubic meters per hectare. In 1991, 3.3 million solid cubic meters of timber were
produced, accounting for only about 1 % of the total standing volume. The potential use of forests for
biomass production has been estimated, following adjustments for technical reasons, at about 9.5
million m3 (solid over bark) per year, of which about 1.6 million m3 is judged to be the potential
annual quantity of biomass available as fuel wood. The amounts of biomass, however, could be
easily increased, for example, by salvage harvesting of dead and dying trees commonly standing in
the forests today. Significant areas of forests in Estonia are in protected areas of various types in
which no harvesting or only restricted harvesting is allowed. As peatlands and forests are evenly
distributed over the country and have only been minimally used as fuel resources to-date, a great
potential exists for increased use of these resources in heat production.
1.8          Imported energy resources. Estonia is heavily dependent on imported fuels largely
due to the design of heating production and industrial plant which have been constructed to operate
only on certain types of fuels, mainly natural gas and heavy fuel oil. Prior to the breakup of the
Soviet Union, these imported fuels were very inexpensive but have sharply increased in price over the
past two years, contributing to a serious energy crisis in Estonia. Estonia purchases heavy fuel oil
and gas primarily from Russia. While Estonia traditionally exported surplus electricity to Russia and
Latvia enabling it to pay for a large share of its energy imports, the economic depression throughout
the FSU has resulted in a dramatic decline in the demand for electricity exports from Estonia (by 60%
since 1990). The shares of various imported fuels as a ratio of total fuels utilized during the recent
period 1990-93 are shown in Table 1.1 below. During 1992 and the first half of 1993, imported fuels
averaged about 30% of total fuels utilized for all purposes. While the share of imported fuels of total
fuels utilized has been declining in recent years, it still remains a substantial financial burden on the
Government's budget, since prices for energy imports have been increasing towards world market
prices. Investments which allow the use of lower-cost domestic fuels would help alleviate this
substantial burden.



-4-
Table 1.1: FUELS UTILIZED IN ESTONIA, 1990-93
Jan-June
1990            1991            1992            1993
Total petajoules a/                 452.0           416.0            303.9          118.6
Tons of coal equivalent              15.4            14.2             10.4            4.1
%                            100.0           100.0            100.0           10Q.0
Domestic Fuel (%):
Oil shale                            52.8            52.6            63.8            63.5 
Firewood                              1.6             1.6              1.0             1.4
Peat                                  1.0             1.5              1.5             1.1
Peat Briquettes                       0.8             0.8              1.1            0.6
Other fuel                            1.9             1.1             2.7             3.0
Total                                58  1           57.6            70.1            696|
Imported Fuel (%):
Heavy fuel oil                       14.2            13.5              9.9           13.7
Light fuel oil                        1.1             0.9              0.3            0.2
Diesel oil                            7.2             6.0              5.1            4.8
Petrol (gasoline)                     5.1             5.0              2.6            2.4
Coal                                  2.0             2.1              1.7             1.5
Natural gas                          11.3            12.4              9.9            7.6
Liquified gas                         0.4             0.3              0.2            0.2 l
Other fuels                           0.6             2.2              0.2             -
Total                                41.9            424              29.9           30.4
n/ Assumes 1 petajoule =
0.275 terawatt-hour
Source: Estonian Institute of Energy Rescamh
1.9           Energy Prices. Since 1991, energy prices have skyrocketed as summarized in Table
1.2 below and contributed to a severe fuel crisis in the winter of 1991/92 due to the limited ability of
Estonia to pay for energy imports along with supply disruptions from the FSU. Most notable are the
prices of natural gas and heavy fuel oil imports, utilized primarily in heat and electricity production,
which increased more than 700 and 450-fold, respectively, during this period. The current domestic
price levels for these fuels approximate world market levels. Since a large number of heat producing
boilers utilize heavy fuel oil and gas, the continued affordability of these imports has become a very
serious issue for the Government. Domestic fuel prices increased dramatically as well although at a
lower rate. For example, prices of oil shale, utilized primarily in electricity production, rose about
85-fold during this period; however, this fuel remains relatively inexpensive when used in energy
production as compared to imported fuels, although the correct pricing of this fuel needs review.



Table 1.2: FUEL PRICES IN ESTONIA DURING 1991-93
Fuels                    Units         Before    January      April       April
1991       1991       1992       1993
Oil shale           EEK/t                 0.42       1.67      24.70       36.00
Coal                EEK/t                 4.25       6.70     411.00      405.20
Heavy fuel oil       EEK/t                3.05       8.00     825.00     1381.00
Natural gas         EEK/thous. m3         1.85       6.10     539.00     1321.60
Diesel oil          EEK/t                13.90       n.a      1590.80    3309.00
Petrol (gasoline)   EEK/t                26.00       n.a     3144.80     3927.00
Heat from HFO       EEK/Gcal              1.00       2.00      120.00     220.00
Electricity          EEK/MWh              2.30       5.00      90.00      150.00
Source: Estonian Institute of Energy Resean:h
1.10         Growth of heat prices and subsidies. The price increases of energy inputs were
translated into higher prices for heat and electricity services, which escalated 220 and 65-fold,
respectively, during the period 1990-93 as shown above in Table 1.2. Particularly striking was the
growth in heat prices which increased about 60-fold alone during 1992. Household incomes, on the
other hand, did not grow at a rate commensurate with the growth in heat prices. Based on average
household salary information available from the Estonian Department of Statistics, incomes grew at
only about 5-fold during the same period. It was not uncommon for heat bills to represent 60-90% of
total monthly household income and in some cases even exceed monthly household income during the
1992/93 heating season. As a result, consumers were not able to pay their heat bills in a timely
manner. However, by January 1994, the affordability of heat services improved, and only about 20%
of households are estimated to be in need of subsidies for housing and utilities, including heat.
1.11         The Government introduced subsidy schemes to heat producers and to some
consumers in 1992, but the level of subsidies was inadequate to cover all costs of production and
provide a sufficient level of assistance for those households requiring support. Consequently,
consumer debts to heat producers grew substantially, from about EEK 140 million to EEK 290
million during July 1992-October 1993. Direct subsidies to heat producers were eliminated in August
1993 and a program for increased subsidies to qualifying households was introduced but was
ineffective. While the past subsidy schemes were inadequate, a new subsidy scheme, addressing the
problems of past schemes, was introduced by Government Decree in January 1994 which targets
subsidies to households who will be required to pay no more than 30% of total household income on
rent and most services, including heat, hot water, gas, electricity for cooking and water. Heat
producers are now permitted by municipalities to raise tariffs to levels necessary to cover all costs
plus provide for some profit. Although energy prices are stabilizing to reflect world market prices of
energy imports, the requirements for subsidies to households are expected to continue over the near



-6-
term, until household incomes grow commensurately with the rise in service prices. The estimate of
subsidies under the new scheme during 1994 to households for all services, including heat, is about
EEK 300-350 million.
1.12          Technical standards. The technical standards in the energy sector are low compared
to Western standards. In the power sector, two condensing power stations (Estonian, Baltic) in the
northeast in the Narva region constitute the~ basis for production of electricity in the country, but one
plant is near the end of its expected lifetime, inefficient and a major source of pollutants in the
region. The other plant is relatively new but urgently needs environmnental improvements.
Production of oil shale, the fuel supply for the power stations, has been limited by an inadequate
supply of explosives, chemicals and spare parts for mining equipment, and maintenance and
monitoring have also been neglected over the years. In addition, the technical standards in the
heating sector are particularly low. Production and consumption of heat are, as a rule, not even
metered. Inefficiencies in the production of heat, large heat losses (about 25% as compared to about
8-12% in Western systems) and water losses in the systems (about 5-10 times higher than Western
systems) are common. There is a substantial potential for improving the technical standards and
efficiency of the sector.
1.13          Environmental Conditions. Estonian energy production and consumption is
responsible for the majority of the air pollution in the country. Air quality problems of regional
significance are caused by the oil shale-fired power plants near Narva. In urban areas and towns,
locally significant air quality problems occur during the winter heating season from the use of coal,
shale oil and heavy fuel oil in low-efficiency boilers used for DH and building heating. Estonian
health authorities report human health effects associated with air pollution (nitrogen oxides, sulfur
dioxide and dust) including heart and respiratory diseases, especially bronchial asthma, for which
pregnant women and children have higher rates of problems. While levels of air pollution have
declined during the last several years due to the economic restructuring process, the levels should be
expected to increase in the near future when economic recovery occurs unless energy conservation
measures and environmental improvements are introduced.
1.14          In the northeastern oil shale region, energy production is the most important cause of
degradation of surface and groundwater resources, due to impacts from mining and the disposal of
massive amounts of solid wastes generated by the power plants. On a local scale, the operation of old
and poorly maintained DH networks results in the wastage of large amounts of freshwater and, in
some situations, may contribute to pollution of groundwater. Improper storage of heavy fuel oil and
wastes at some DH stations is thought to have resulted in the contamination of groundwater and soil.
Energy Sector Institutions
1.15          Organized under the Ministry of Economy is the Ministry of Energy, whose main
duties are to follow the development in the energy sector, facilitate investments and establish energy
policy. Since the Ministry of Energy's staff is very limited, it is assisted in this effort by a separate
state-owned agency, the Estonian State Energy Department, which reports to the Minister of Energy.
An Energy Committee, chaired by the Minister of Energy and comprising all senior energy managers,
also meets regularly to discuss and resolve policy matters. In addition, four state energy enterprises
are also active in the energy field: Eesti Energia, Eesti Polekivi, Eesti Kutus and Eesti Gaas.
Thermest Ltd., previously a state enterprise, is now owned by DH companies providing services in
the DH sector.



-7-
1.16          Eesti Energia, including 16 daughter companies, has absolute monopoly on electricity
production, transmission and distribution. Eesti Energia also accounts for 40% of the total heat
production and supplies approximately 40% of the households in the four largest cities as well as
industry with heat.
1.17          Eesti Polekivi, including 16 daughter offices, has absolute monopoly on oil shale
mining in Estonia, producing coarse and crushed oil shale. Coarse oil shale is processed into shale
oil which is used as raw material in the chemical industry and as fuel for different purposes. Crushed
oil shale is utilized in the production of electricity.
1.18          Eesti Kutus is responsible for the purchase, transport, storage, marketing and selling
of oil products and solid fuels, except oil shale and natural gas. With daughter companies, Eesti
Kutus controls about 10% of Estonia's oil products and solid fuel markets. In addition, Eesti Kutus
owns stocks in several limited companies and is part of a joint venture with a company in Finland
("Neste") selling oil products in Estonia.
1.19          Eesti Gaas is responsible for the purchase, transport, storage, marketing, distribution
and selling of natural and liquid gas. Eesti Gaas recently formed a joint venture with a Russian
company, which now owns 30% of the stocks. Through daughter companies, Eesti Gaas controls all
of Estonia's natural and liquid gas markets. All main gas pipelines and storage are the property of
Eesti Gaas.
1.20          Thermest Ltd, until 1992, was primarily responsible for producing, distributing and
selling district heat, amounting to about 30% of all district heat supplied in urban areas, and also
repaired energy equipment. Since that time, its DH companies have been transferred to municipal
ownership, and therefore it's role in the energy sector in the future is unclear. At present, Thermest
is responsible mainly for provision of maintenance and related services to the municipal DH
companies, and also provides advice on legal issues related to the DH sector.
C. Energy Sector Policy and Strategy
1.21          The Government recently issued an energy policy and strategy statement, presented in
Annex 1, which gives high priority to the energy sector as a pivotal component in its economic
reform program. The basic objective of the energy policy is to provide reliable energy at the lowest
possible cost, which will be attained through greater efficiency, reliability, diversity, environmental
protection (including conservation), attraction of capital, and competition in sector activities. To
attain these objectives, the Government's institutional structure will be modified in line with the new
political and economic framework of the country applying the following key principles: separation of
the policy making and regulating roles from those of ownership and management of enterprises, clear
allocation of responsibilities and accountability among its agencies, decentralization of energy
activities to the municipal level where possible, and sale to the private sector of those enterprises
whose activities are not considered of strategic importance. In order to protect the consumer, the
regulatory function of the Government will be carried out by autonomous agencies with transparent
procedures in those cases where monopoly conditions still exist.
1.22          In line with its policy, Estonia's energy strategy has established the following
priorities, in sequence of implementation: (i) to improve efficiency and reliability of existing systems



-8-
through reduction of losses; (ii) to improve the diversity of energy fuels through the exploitation of
indigenous resources in order to reduce high-cost fuel imports and dependence on only one main fuel
supplier (Russia); (iii) to rehabilitate existing facilities in order to improve efficiency and reliability;
and (iv) to promote investment in new plants only when other priorities have been addressed. Within
this strategy, the highest priority is for investments in the DH sector which is inefficient and most
heavily dependent on imported oil and gas. To support this strategy, a National Energy Conservation
Programme was initiated during 1992 with the aim of converting small heat-only-boilers (<2 MW) in
towns and counties throughout the country to use lower-cost, indigenous fuels and to promote end-
user efficiency improvements in buildings. 'his program is currently being supported by a number of
donors (EBRD, Swedish Government, Danish Government, G24) as well as through budgetary
allocations of the Government. The proposed project represents further support for rehabilitation of
DH systems in Estonia's major cities.
1.23          The Government has taken a number of steps in the direction of establishing a legal
and regulatory framework for the sector and to restructure its energy institutions. On the enterprise
side, the Govermnent has transferred DH companies to municipal ownership, although the legal status
of the municipal enterprises has yet to be formally established, and has given support to the formation
of joint-stock DH companies. The Government has also decentralized the responsibility for heat tariff
regulation to municipalities. The prices of gasoline, diesel oil and liquid gas have also recently been
decontrolled, while the Cabinet, considering the review by the Ministry of Finance's Competition
Board, determines other energy prices on the basis of proposals prepared by the energy producers.
Some privatization steps have been taken, for example, by Eesti Gaas which has entered into a joint-
venture partnership with a Russian company owning 30% of its stocks. The Government has also
allowed private suppliers of liquid fuels, peat and wood chips to enter the sector.
1.24         The recently issued energy policy and strategy statement will serve as the document
of reference for future actions in the sector, including the proposed project. It is the Government's
intention to use the statement also as a reference document for the development of the legal and
regulatory framework of the sector, which is expected to be supported under the project.
D. District Heating Conditions and Priority Needs
1.25         District heating systems supply about 46% of the total heat production in Estonia,
primarily in urban areas, as well as hot water and steam to industry. Heat is produced either in
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) or in heat-only-boiler plant and transported through about 2,200
kilometers of a double pipeline system to substations in buildings. The use of CHP is limited to a
few large plants (in the Narva, Kohtla-Jarve, Ahtme and Tallinn areas) whereas much of the rest of
the country is being provided with heat through approximately 5,000 boilerhouses, 90% of which
have a capacity of less than 2 MW. The DH systems are owned primarily by Eesti Energia, the
various municipalities and industrial companies.
1.26         Boilerhouses are mostly operated manually without any control systems, and metering
of fuel supplies and delivered heat is rarely seen. Generally, boiler designs are of an outdated
technology and of low efficiency, typically around 60-65% with some more modern, gas-fired boilers
around 80-85% (as compared to around 80-85% in Western countries up to about 92-94% for gas-
fired boilers). About 40% of the boilers utilize heavy fuel oil, 25% natural gas, 15% shale oil, 7%
coal, and the remaining 13% other fuels, i.e., wood, wood chips and peat. About 80-90% of the cost



-9-
of production of heat in oil or gas-fired boilers is attributable to the fuel cost alone. Therefore,
investments which would convert boilers from use of high-cost imported fuels to lower-cost domestic
fuels, where technically possible, are of the highest priority in reducing the cost of heat production.
1.27         The DH networks have pipe dimensions between 40 and 1,200 mm, and 90% are
encased in concrete channels. The pipes are poorly insulated with mineral wool and bitumen board.
In a number of channels, insulation is made of bitumen perlite, which, when exposed to water
through leakage, acts as a corrosive agent; this leads to excessive corrosion and premature
degradation of the pipes requiring replacement in about 5 years, a time that is much shorter than that
required in well-designed systems. The remaining 10% of pipes, which are mounted in open air, are
generally poorly insulated with mineral wood and covered with metal sheets, and distribution
branches and valves are mostly uninsulated. As water losses are high (often as high as 3-4% of flow
as compared with less than 0.5% in well-designed and operated DH systems), the water treatment
systems have difficulty coping with the high make-up water flow; treatment has also been aggravated
by the current shortage of chemicals. The high leakage rate does not allow for proper water
treatment leading to internal corrosion in the pipes and other equipment. Improvements in insulation,
water treatment and to address leakages are needed to reduce energy and water losses in the systems.
1.28          Normally, the operating temperature of the hot water from the heat sources is 150 to
95°C for the outgoing water and about 70°C for the returning. Since the onset of the energy crisis in
Estonia, temperatures have been forced down to 60/400C, which is inadequate to provide satisfactory
service. Temperatures in homes during the last heating season averaged around 10-130C and hot
water was not available in all areas. Consumer connections in substations do not have any controls
and operate with constant flow ard pressure conditions, requiring the DH system to operate on the
same flow rate around the year. This mode of operation does not allow the flow to vary according to
energy demand. The present systems also do not have the capability of economic dispatch to allow
the operator to use the least expensive source of heat at any given time.
1.29          Maintenance in all parts of the DH system is poor due primarily to the limited
availability of funds for repairs and spare parts. Traditionally, the Soviet process for investment was
characterized by a heavy emphasis on the initial investment, and less attention was paid to maintaining
the investment.
E. Bank Energy Strategy. Past Experience and Project Rationale
1.30          Since Estonia is now importing energy products at near world market prices, the
Bank's strategy is to assist the Government to develop policies that help align domestic relative prices
of energy services with world prices and to support investments that improve energy efficiency and
the conservation of energy. The priority investments to be supported by the Bank would be expected
to lower energy import requirements and production and operating costs and thus make energy
services more affordable and reduce the need for Government subsidies. The selected investments
should focus on increasing operational efficiency, plant rehabilitation rather than construction of new
facilities where existing capacity is sufficient, conversion of plant to use domestic fuels, and
environmental improvements, and should be supported by institutional development programs. High
priority should be given to investments in the DH and power sectors and the associated institutional
and financial strengthening of the responsible agencies. For large energy investments, a regional
approach would be required to prevent duplication of capacity and resource misallocation. Energy



-10-
investments should also address environmental problems, in view of the prevailing environmental
degradation in several areas.
1.31          The proposed Loan represents the first Bank investment loan in the energy sector to
Estonia. A Bank Rehabilitation Loan (Ln. 3522-EE) of US$ 30 million was approved in October
1992 and provided financing for imported goods in priority sectors during a transition period of about
18 months in support of an economic reform program. About US$ 15 million under this Loan was
allocated for the purchase of heavy fuel oil, spare parts and other materials for heat and electricity
production and another US$ 5 million is being provided for purchase of gas for similar purposes
under co-financing arrangements with the Japan Export-Import Bank. Implementation of the Loan is
proceeding satisfactorily, and energy imports were procured quickly to improve the availability of
energy supplies during the past two winters.
1.32          Past experience in implementation of other Bank-supported DH projects is limited to a
project in Poland and a component of an environmental project in China, both ongoing. Some lessons
learned to-date include: (a) the need to firm up counterpart funding arrangements at the onset to
avoid funding difficulties later; (b) decentralized project management arrangements work far better
than centralized arrangements; (c) given the rapidly changing circumstances in countries in transition,
subsidy schemes may be phased out more quickly than initially envisioned and therefore it is
important to track DH prices during project implementation; and (d) it is important to ensure that
future investments in expanding the DH systems are properly justified and therefore heat planning for
the long-term development of major DH systems should be undertaken during the project period.
These lessons have been considered in the design of the proposed project.
1.33         The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's overall country assistance strategy
in Estonia, which was discussed by the Board in October 1992 and which assigns emphasis to the
energy sector and seeks to support Estonia's efforts to improve energy efficiency by replacing or
rehabilitating old production facilities. The strategy also calls for greater efforts in energy
conservation, pricing and ownership. The project is also fully consistent with the Government's
energy strategy, would support energy conservation, improvement of the efficiency of energy facilities
and environmental conditions, expansion of the use of indigenous fuels, and rehabilitation of existing
plants. The efficiency gains and reduced import bill would lead to lower costs of heat production and
operation thereby resulting in more affordable heat tariffs and lower requirements for heat subsidies.
Most importantly, the quality and reliability of heating services would be improved. At the same
time, institutional development programs for concerned energy agencies would help strengthen their
management and operations.



-11-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1           A Bank exploratory mission visited Estonia during June 1992 to initiate discussions
with the Government on priority infrastructure investment requirements and possible areas for Bank
support. Based on an official request in September 1992 from the Government for support in the DH
sector and for gas metering stations to control the cross-border trade of gas, the Bank sent an
identification mission during December 1992. At that time, agreement was reached on a possible
project focussed on DH improvements in three of the five largest cities of Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu
and in small boilers in other areas as well as for the need for consultancy studies to carefully review
the priority requirements and establish the feasibility of affordable investment programs in these
areas. The other two largest cities of Narva and Kohtla-Jarve were excluded from the project, since
their DH systems already utilized lower cost, indigenous fuels and further investments were not
expected to result in the same level of energy and efficiency savings. As the present capacity of heat
producing facilities was judged to be adequate for the near term given the drastic decline in heat
supply between 1990-93, it was further agreed that the rehabilitation and efficiency improvements
would take precedence over the construction of new plant. Since EBRD had already approved a loan
for an Energy Sector Emergency Investment Project which had the possibility of providing funding
for imported equipment for the gas sector, it was also mutually agreed that the EBRD loan would be
utilized to address the Government's requirements in the gas sector.
2.2           The Government assigned the Estonian State Energy Department as the lead agency
for communications and coordination of the proposed project which involved a large number of
project agencies. With Bank support, terms of reference for the required feasibility, engineering and
environmental studies were prepared. The Government subsequently sought financial support for the
feasibility studies from a number of bilateral sources which agreed to provide the necessary funding
on a grant basis. In the end, the Government of Finland was selected to provide support for the two
studies for the Tallinn DH rehabilitation and Iru Power Plant improvement components which were
carried out by EKONO Energy and IVO International Ltd., respectively. The Government of Sweden
similarly provided support for the study for the Tartu DH rehabilitation component which was carried
out by Fjarrvarmebyran ab/Stockholm Energi ab. For the Parnu DH rehabilitation component,
consultancy services had already been arranged for a DH Master Plan Study for Parnu City to begin
January 1993 and which was to be carried out by Carl Bro International a/s with Danish Goverrunent
funding. Agreement was reached that the consultants would extend this study into a full-fledged
feasibility and engineering study and further funding was secured to carry out the additional tasks.
2.3           For the small boiler conversion component, terms of reference were prepared, with
Bank assistance, for a study to address the key concerns related to the long-term environmental
impacts of utilizing peat and wood resources as fuels for the production of heat, and funding was
secured from the Swedish Government through BITS utilizing special trust funds administered by the
Bank. The consortium of IVL - Swedish Environmental Research Institute, Inc., Jaakko Poyry
Consulting AB, Swedish Development Consulting Partners AB and the Institute of Ecology of the
Estonian Academy of Sciences - was selected to carry out the study. As experience was being gained
from a number of pilot boiler conversion projects that had commnenced under the Government's
National Energy Conservation Programme, the Estonian State Energy Department prepared a proposal
for the remaining aspects related to the technical, financial, economic and institutional arrangements



-12-
for the component and identified a number of boilers for conversion or replacement. These boiler
projects have been judged suitable for inclusion under the project.
2.4           From the onset of discussions with the Government, it was apparent that the financial
situation of DH companies and institutional arrangements for the DH sector required special attention,
and agreement was reached that a separate consultancy would be undertaken to properly address the
concerns. Terms of reference for a DH Financial and Institutional Study were therefore prepared
with Bank assistance, funding on a grant basis was obtained from the Danish Government, and the
firms of CowiConsult/Ernst & Young were selected to carry out the work.
2.5          In accordance with the agreed timetable, appraisal of the project took place during
February 1994. Technical specifications and draft bidding documents were prepared for a number of
goods and works contracts at that time so that bidding would be able to commence shortly after
appraisal. It is expected that a number contracts will be ready for award by the time of Loan signing.
B. Project Objectives
2.6           The project, which would be the first energy sector investment project in Estonia,
would have the following main objectives:
(a)    to reduce fuel costs and import requirements through efficiency
improvements and by increasing the use of indigenous fuels in heat
production, in compatibility with environmental and nature protection
principles;
(b)    to bring about energy efficiency and economy in major DH systems through
rehabilitation and introduction of modern technologies and equipment;
(c)    to improve environmental conditions in affected areas by improving the
efficiency of fuel use, facilitating the conversion or replacement of boilers
from the use of heavy fuel oil to peat and wood fuels, reducing wastage of
water in DH systems, and promoting the environmentally sound use of peat
and wood as DH fuels; and
(d)    to support the strengthening and restructuring of DH institutions, to facilitate
their eventual privatization, and development of the energy sector through
consultancy and advisory services, training and provision of equipment and
software.
C. Project Components and Description
2;7           The project would consist of the following components listed below and described
iollowing:



-13-
(a)    small boiler conversion/replacement program in municipalities, including
equipment, grates or preovens, and related works, along with engineering
services, to allow boilers to use local fuels;
(b)    DH rehabilitation program in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu, including equipment
and works for seven boiler conversions (in Tartu and Parnu), boiler
improvements; installation of new substations with regulators and heat
meters, water treatment equipment, pipeline replacements, improved drainage
and ventilation of concrete ducts, variable speed pumps and related
equipment along with engineering services;
(c)    Iru (CHP. Tallinn) Power Plant improvement comnonent, including preheater
repairs, water treatment equipment, variable speed pumps, and automation
and measurement equipment, along with engineering services; and
(d)    institutional support program for project agencies, including consultancy and
advisory services, training, equipment and software for project management
and implementation, for restructuring energy agencies and for further
development of the energy sector.
Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program
2.8           The small boiler conversion/replacement program would complement the three major
towns' DH rehabilitation components by extending coverage of the DH rehabilitation program to a
nationwide level. A number of small and medium-size heat-only-boilers or steam/hot water boilers
dispersed in towns and the countryside of Estonia would be replaced or converted from heavy fuel oil
to local fuels, mainly peat and wood chips, produced in nearby areas, thereby substantially lowering
the cost of heat production. Available data indicate that more than 1,500 such boilers exist in the
country. A portion of these boilers, representing an aggregate capacity of about 145 MW, are
proposed for conversion or replacement. Participation in the program would be focussed on publicly-
owned (municipal and state) boiler houses, rather than privately-owned boiler houses. Demonstration
of commitment by the local authority would also be required. Proposals are being requested by the
Estonian State Energy Department from boiler owners in all 15 counties in the country, with selection
of boilers to be improved based on sound technical, financial and economic criteria already agreed
with the Bank (see Annex 2). During negotiations agreement was obtained that the Estonian State
Energy Department would submit the first four applications for boiler conversion projects to the Bank
for review and approval prior to granting approval for sub-loans. Subsequent sub-loans would be
approved by the Estonian State Energy Department in accordance with the appraisal criteria already
agreed with the Bank and would be selectively reviewed by the Bank. (Para. 6. 1(a)).
2.9          Preference would be given to boiler conversions which are lower in cost, but
replacement of boilers would also be considered for inclusion in cases where boilers are in a technical
condition threatening secured heat supplies. About 60% of the allocation for this component would
be earmarked for small boiler conversions and about 40% for replacement of boilers. The program
would include boiler types which have already been demonstrated to be technically capable of
conversion under other programs (Swedish, EBRD, G24, local) currently being implemented. Boilers
ranging in size up to about 10 MW would be converted and from about 0.5-3.0 MW would be
replaced. Boilerhouse building and site conditions would need to be shown to be in reasonably good



-14-
condition, but if the water treatment systems are not in good working condition, other related
equipment requirements would be identified and included under the program.
2.10          The conversion and replacement of small boilers is feasible only if adequate supplies
of indigenous fuels are available at reasonable cost, which implies the availability of peat fields and
sources of wood chips at reasonable distances. Therefore, in order for individual proposals to be
approved, they would need to be accompanied by a plan for the supply of local fuels which
demonstrate the financial viability of the investment.
2.11          Forty proposals from boiler owners were received during October 1993; 34 proposals
have passed the initial screening and are currently being evaluated. Local consultants have been
employed to further follow-up on the feasibility of each individual proposal. If the budget for this
component is not fully allocated after the review and approval of these proposals, then a second round
of proposals would be invited. A technical assistance component is also included for the preparation
of technical specifications, bidding documents and for project support and supervision of installation
of equipment, and international consultants are already assisting in the preparation of technical
specifications and bidding documents.
DH Rehabilitation Program in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu
2.12          Tallinn DH Rehabilitation Component. The DH system in Tallinn consists of three
major networks and a number of small networks with oil-fired boilers for heat production. The
eastern network is supplied with heat from the Iru CHP plant where gas and heavy fuel oil are the
main fuels. The central network is supplied with heat from an old heat-only-boiler in central Tallinn
utilizing heavy fuel oil as fuel. The western network is supplied with heat from new heat-only-
boilers, also using heavy fuel oil as fuel. A schematic drawing of the Tallinn DH system is included
as Schematic Drawing 1.
2.13          The DH rehabilitation component for Tallinn includes efficiency improvements of
oil-fired boilers, replacement of old pipelines and ventilation of concrete culverts, 1,051 substation
improvements including heat meters, control equipment for large substations, water treatment
improvements, variable speed pumps and remote control, and maintenance equipment and spare parts.
An additional component to connect the eastern and central networks was also included after
presentation of the justification which was to increase the use of lower-cost heat from Iru CHP plant.
Conversion of boilers in Tallinn were not considered for inclusion at this time mainly because of
uncertainties about the availability of local fuel supplies, but this may be possible under future
projects. A technical assistance component is also included for the detailed design of the substations
and for overall supervision of the project as well as office equipment for the project implementation
team. A detailed description of the component is included in Annex 3.
2.14          The largest component for the Tallinn system concerns improvement of substations.
Improvement of substations has already started with financing from EBRD whereby 427 substations in
the western network will be replaced beginning in the Fall. The remaining 1,051 substations in the
western network would be included in the project, allowing for this network to be converted to
variable flow instead of today's constant flow regime.



-15-
2.15          Tallinn Municipality requested that all new substations be built with heat exchangers
for the heating system rather than the simpler option without heat exchangers being applied in other
towns. It was agreed to include heat exchangers for a number of reasons which are special to the
Tallinn DH system: (a) the size of the network and poor regulation of the water flow has often
caused "water hammers" which in today's open DH system has been causing malfunctioning of
radiators in buildings; (b) today's open DH system permits illegal tapping of hot water from the
network which could be eliminated with heat exchangers, allowing for the system to be closed in the
western network; and (c) load dispatching could be improved by better pressure control. The
component would also include heat meters for all substations in the western network which will
permit the charging of heat bills per building on a metered basis instead of today's estimated
consumption rates. The utility would also be expected to use the meters to improve their
measurement of heat and water losses.
2.16          Tartu DH Rehabilitation Component. The DH system in Tartu consists of one major
network and a number of small networks with oil-fired boilers for heat production. A schematic
drawing of the Tartu DH system is included as Schematic Drawing 2.
2.17          The DH rehabilitation component includes five boiler conversions from heavy fuel oil
to wood chips and peat, wood chipping equipment, replacement of old pipelines, 640 substation
improvements including heat meters, water treatment improvements, boiler efficiency improvements,
and maintenance equipment and spare parts for boilers and the distribution system. The connection of
two networks was also added to allow the increased use of wood fuels, to permit a number of
customers, currently served by inefficient oil-fired boilers, to have the option to connect to the DH
network and to improve the security of heat supplies. A technical assistance component was included
for the detailed design of substation improvements and for overall supervision of the project along
with office equipment for the project implementation team. A detailed description of the component
is included in Annex 3.
2.18          The boiler conversion component includes conversion of two new, 30 MW oil-fired
boilers at the Luunja boilerhouse to milled peat as the main fuel and conversion of three old, 15 MW
oil and gas-fired boilers at the Ropka boilerhouse to sod peat and wood chips. Peat bogs near Tartu
large enough for supplying the boiler with fuels for 20 years have been identified, and sources of
wood fuels have also been identified. Since the conversion of boilers is feasible only if adequate
supplies of indigenous fuels are available at reasonable cost, as a condition for negotiations, Tartu
Municipality's DH Companies were required to enter into contracts for the majority (about 60%) of
the required local fuel supplies for the first two years for converted boilers.
2.19          Improvement of substations has recently started with financing from EBRD whereby
241 substations, which currently allow for the direct tapping of hot water from the main network, will
be replaced beginning in the Fall. Improvement of the remaining 640 old substations would be
included in the project. Heat meters are also included in this component and, together with the
EBRD project, would result in a meter in every building, thereby providing a better basis for future
planning and billing.
2.20          Parnu DH Rehabilitation Component. There are four DH systems in Parnu city:
Parnu, Tervis, Niidu and Ental, three of which belong to Parnu DH Company and the fourth, Ental,



-16-
is privately-owned. All municipal boilers are fuelled with heavy fuel oil. A schematic drawing of the
Parnu DH system is included as Schematic Drawing 3.
2.21          The Parnu DH rehabilitation component includes two boiler conversions from heavy
fuel oil to peat and wood fuels, wood chipping equipment, 160 substation improvements including
heat meters, new variable speed pumps, a control and regulation system, water treatment
improvements and replacement of old pipelines. A technical assistance component was also included
for the detailed design of substations and for overall supervision of the project as well as office
equipment for the project implementation team. A detailed description of the component is included
in Annex 3.
2.22          After evaluation of several alternatives, the boiler conversion component would
include conversion of two old, oil-fired boilers to sod peat and wood chips as the main fuels. Sources
of local fuels at about the required amounts have been identified. Since the conversion of boilers is
feasible only if adequate supplies of indigenous fuels are available at reasonable cost, as a condition
for negotiations, Parnu Municipality's DH Company was required to enter into contracts for the
majority (about 60%) of the required local fuel supplies for the first two years for converted boilers.
2.23          Improvement of substations has already started with financing from EBRD whereby
42 substations will be replaced beginning in the Fall. The remaining 160 substations of the main
network south of the river would be included in the project. This would allow the network to be
converted to variable flow instead of today's constant flow regime. For this purpose, variable speed
pumps with new control and regulation equipment would also be included in the project. A result of
this project is that all substations in the main network would be provided with heat meters, and all
buildings in this area would thus be able to be charged on a metered basis instead of today's flat
rates. The utility can also use the meters to improve the measurement of heat and water losses.
Iru (CHP. Tallinn) Power Plant Improvement Component
2.24          The Iru CHP Plant is located in the eastern part of Tallinn and is owned by the
national power company, Eesti Energia. It supplies annually approximately 1,000 GWh of heat for
the Lasnamae city area in the eastern network and can also, provided there is a demand, produce
700 GWh of electricity. The plant was built during the period 1978-1989. The two steam boilers
and turbines have been taken into operation in 1980 and 1982. The boilers have a steam capacity of
500 t/hour (130 bar, 5500C). There are also three heat-only-boilers in the plant, the capacity of each
being 116 MW of heat. Today the main fuel of the plant is heavy fuel oil, but natural gas can be
used in one steam boiler and in one hot water boiler.
2.25          A number of investment alternatives, based on different scenarios for fuel and
electricity costs, were evaluated for this component of the project. Two alternatives included
rehabilitation of installations in the whole plant, while three alternatives were focused mainly on
improvements in the heat-only part of the plant. Since the domestic and export demand for electricity
over the next 5-7 years is expected to be met from production from the two power stations in the
northeast, the component would include one of the investment alternatives that was focussed mainly
on heat-only improvements.



-17-
2.26          The Iru Power Plant improvement component would therefore consist of
improvements to an air preheater for one of the steam boilers, water treatment improvements, and
automation and measurement equipment. New pumps with variable speed drives at Iru were also
included, as they would improve the load dispatch and are needed for pumping water through the new
pipeline connection in the Tallinn DH system. Since the power station is operated in minimal
capacity three months every winter in order to prevent it from freezing, repairs to at least one
preheater is justified on this basis. A technical assistance component for the overall supervision of
the project would also be included. A detailed description of the component is included in Annex 4.
Institutional Support Program
2.27          A package of support which is necessary to better ensure the successful
implementation of the project and the restructuring of DH companies to facilitate their commercial
operations and eventual privatization as well as for further development of the sector would also be
included in the project. Terms of reference for about 190 man-months of consultancy and advisory
services were discussed during negotiations. The component consists of the following items
summarized below:
Estonian State Energy Department
(a)    Procurement and Disbursement Advisory Services. Procurement and
disbursement advisors would provide guidance to all project agencies in the
procurement, accounting and disbursement requirements of the project. The
advisors would report to the Project Coordinator in the Energy Department.
(b)    Long-term Heat Planning. Advisory services to assist major DH agencies to
develop the capability to undertake heat planning for the future development
of DH systems and to provide a basis for decisions on future investments.
The advisors would report to the Energy Department but would work with
municipalities owning major DH systems.
(c)    Legal and Regulatory Framework for the Energy Sector. Advisory services
to assist in the development of a legal and regulatory framework for the
energy sector as a whole and for each subsector (DH, electricity, gas, oil,
others) and to assist in the development of specific documents or studies
which are given priority under the sector strategy.
(d)    Training and Equipment. Training of the management and staff and
provision of office equipment, computers and software.
Tallinn Municipality
(a)    Restructuring of the Tallinn DH Companies. Consultancy services to assist
with the restructuring of the Tallinn DH companies to ensure that the new
merged company will be established and operational in a timely manner, to
identify-the requirements for effective management and operations systems,
and to provide support for implementing the recommended requirements.



-18-
(b)    Training and Eguipment. Training of the management and staff and
provision of office equipment, computers and software.
Tartu Municipaitv
(a)    Restructuring of the Tartu DH Companies. Consultancy services to assist
with the restructuring of the Tartu DH companies to ensure that the new
companies will be established and operational in a timely manner, to identify
the requirements for effective management and operations systems, and to
provide support for implementing the recommended requirements.
(b)    Training and EquiDment. Training of the management and staff and
provision of office equipment, computers and software.
Parnu Municipaliy
(a)    Institutional Development of the Parnu DH Company. Consultancy services
to identify the requirements for the strengthening and development of the DH
company and for support for implementing the recommended requirements.
(b)    Training and Equipment. Training of the management and staff and
provision of office equipment, computers and software.
Eesti Energia
(a)    Training and Eguipment. Training of the management and staff and
provision of office equipment, computers and software.
Ministry of Environment. Local Environrental Departments and other Environmental Grous
(a)    Advisory Services. Training and Materials. Advisory services to develop a
training program and to train local teams, including the provision of related
materials, for an in-country training program in environmental management
and a limited number of study tours to review environmental management
practices in neighboring countries.
During negotiations agreement was obtained that the advisory services for long-term heat planning
and development of a legal and regulatory framework would be carried out by consultants in
accordance with terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. (Para. 6.1(b)).



-19-
D. Cost Estimates
2.28          The total project cost is estimated at EEK 870.7 million (US$ 64.5 million equivalent)
of which EEK 696.7 million (US$ 51.6 million equivalent) or about 80% is the foreign exchange
component. Local taxes and import duties are estimated at about EEK 29.6 million (US$ 2.2 million
equivalent) and are included in the cost estimates. The taxes and duties represent about 3.5% of the
total project cost. Base cost estimates are expressed in February 1994 prices. Summary project costs
are shown in Table 3.1 and detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 5.
2.29          Project costs were estimated by project agencies and their consultants, based on
similar works recently implemented in Estonia and recent quotations for equipment. Cost estimates
for technical assistance are based on recent actual costs for similar activities. The remaining detailed
designs (primarily for substation improvements) and supervision costs are estimated at about 6% of
base costs.
2.30          Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of base costs. Price contingencies for
local costs are based on expected price increases of 15% in 1994, 11 % in 1995, 9% in 1996 and 8%
thereafter. Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on an expected price increase of 2.5% per
year during the project period. In total, physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of base cost, and
price contingencies are estimated at about 9.5% of base cost plus physical contingencies.



-20-
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
-----(EEK millon)-----     -----(USS million)-----     %       % Of
Component                   Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Foreign  Base Cost
Small Boiler Converslon/
Replacement Program
Boiler conversions           13.29    63.87    77.16     0.98      4.73     5.72      83        11
Boiler replacements           9.62    45.23    54.85      0.71     3.35     4.06      82         8
Design/supervision            2.39     8.10    10.49      0.18     0.60     0.78      77         1
Sub-total                   25.30   117.20   142.50     1.87     8.68    10.56       82       20
DH Rehabilitation Components
Boiler Improvements          20.92    89.91   110.83      1.55     6.66     8.21       81       15
Network rebuilding           20.08    45.19    65.27      1.49     3.35     4.83      69         9
Substation rebuilding        25.48   169.56   195.04      1.89    12.56    14.45       87       27
Water treatment               7.91    16.74    24.65      0.59     1.24     1.83       68        3
Pumps                         2.90    15.86    18.76      0.21     1.17     1.39       85        3
Control and regulation        0.42     5.04     5.46      0.03     0.37     0.40       92        1
Spare parts                   4.04     9.94    13.98      0.30     0.74     1.04      71         2
Project office equipment      2.12     0.00     2.12      0.16     0.00     0.16       0         0
Design/supervklon             7.07    21.46    28.53      0.52     1.59     2.11      75         4
Sub-total                   90.95   373.70   464.65     6.74    27.68    34.42       80       64
IRU Power Plant Component
Air preheaters                0.50     4.32     4.82      0.04     0.32     0.36      90         1
Water treatment               1.69    19.58    21.27      0.13     1.45     1.58       92        3
Automation & measurement      1.74    14.45    16.19      0.13     1.07     1.20      89         2
Pumps                         2.56    18.83    21.39      0.19     1.39     1.58      88         3
SupervMslon                   0.65     2.97     3.62      0.05     0.22     0.27      82         1
Sub-total                    7.14    60.15    67.29     0.53     4.46     4.98       89        9
Institutional Support
State Energy Dept.            0.00    17.15    17.15      0.00     1.27     1.27      100        2
Tallnn Municipality          0.00    12.42    12.42      0.00     0.92     0.92      100        2
Tartu Municipality            0.00     8.41     8.41      0.00     0.62     0.62      100        1
Parnu Municipality            0.00     6.21     6.21     0.00      0.46     0.46     100         1
Eesti Energila                0.00     1.35     1.35      0.00     0.10     0.10     100         0
Ministry of Environment       0.50     2.19     2.69      0.04     0.16     0.20      81         0
Sub-total                    0.50    47.73    48.23     0.04     3.54     3.57       99        7
Total Base Cost              123.88   598.78   722.66      9.18    44.35    53.53      83       100
(February 1994 prices)
Physlcal contingencies       12.39    59.88    72.27     0.92      4.44     5.35      83        10
Price contingencles          37.78    38.02    75.80      2.80     2.82     5.61      50        10
Total Project Cost           174.05   696.68   870.72    12.89    51.61    64.50       80       120
_____     ______   __  ___  _  _  _______  ____  ____  _                                  ---------
Note: Identifiable taxes and duties are about EEK 29.6 million (USS 2.2 million equivalent) and
the total project cost net of taxes Is EEK 841.2 million (USS 62.3 million equivalent).



-21-
E. Project Flnandne Arrangements
Financing Plan
2.31         The proposed Bank Loan of US$ 38.4 million (EEK 518.7 million) would finance
about 60% of total project costs (or 62% of total project costs net of taxes and duties). The Swedish
Government through its aid agency BITS would co-finance the project by providing a loan of
USS 10 million (EEK 135 million) amounting to about 15% of total project costs (or 16% of total
project costs net of taxes and duties). In addition, the European Investment Bank (EEB) would co-
finance the project by providing a loan of US$ 4.4 million (EEK 59.6 million), amounting to about
7% of total project costs. Submission of satisfactory evidence from both the Swedish Government
and EIB that their loans have been signed would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan.
(Para. 6.2(a)). Another US$ 3.8 million (EEK 51 million) is being sought from other grant funding
sources (primarily the Swedish, Finnish and Danish Governments and the European Union) for the
institutional support program. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that adequate grant
funding was being secured. The remaining 12% of total project cost (EEK 106 million) would be
provided by project agencies from own funds or local borrowings. As a condition for negotiations,
project agencies were required to identify how their local counterpart contributions would be
provided. The financing plan for the project is summarized below in Table 3.2.
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
% Total
EEK million     US$ million       Cost
Total Project Cost at                 870.7             64.5            100
of which:
World Bank                       518.7            38.4             60
Swedish Government (BITS)        135.0             10.0            15
EIB                               59.5             4.4              7
Other Donors (grants)             51.0             3.8              6
Project Agencies                 106.5             7.9             12
a/ Excluding interest during construction estimated at EEK 136.1 million (US$ 10.1 million) to
be financed by project agencies.
Flow of Funds and On-Lending Terms
2.32         The World Bank, Swedish Government and EIB loans would be made to the Republic
of Estonia and on-lent to project agencies. The World Bank Loan would be made at the standard
variable interest rate (currently 7.27%) for a period of 15 years, including 5 years grace. The loan
from the Swedish Government is expected to be made at an interest rate of about 8% with a maturity
of 15 years including a 5-year grace period. The EIB loan is expected to be made at an interest rate
of about 6.2% also with a maturity of 15 years including a 5-year grace period. The processing of
the Swedish Government and EIB loans are on a parallel track to that of the World Bank loan. It is
expected that the World Bank would administer the loan from the Swedish Government. The foreign



-22-
exchange risk of the three loans would be borne directly by project agencies with the exception of the
small boiler conversionlreplacement program under which the foreign exchange risk would be borne
directly by the Govermnent (and indirectly by the small boiler owners through the differential between
the interest rates to GOE and the on-lending interest rate), in accordance with the practice established
under the on-going National Energy Conservation Program. In order to on-lend to municipalities, the
Government would need to amend the Local Government Act which currently does not permit
municipalities to borrow and guarantee repayment of loans on behalf of their DH enterprises. The
timetable for processing the amendment was discussed during negotiations. During negotiations
agreement was obtained regarding the on-lending arrangements, described below, for the project.
(Para. 6.1(c)).
2.33         About US$ 19.6 million equivalent of the proceeds of the World Bank Loan would be
passed on to Tallinn Municipality as a loan, denominated in US$, to support the financing of the
Tallinn DH rehabilitation component. The loan to Tallinn Municipality would be made at the IBRD
interest rate plus a mark-up not to exceed 10% to be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years grace on
repayment of principal. The maturity of 15 years allows for a 5 year grace period corresponding to
the implementation period of the project and a repayment period of 10 years corresponding to the
expected life of the investments.
2.34         About US$ 4.4 million equivalent of the proceeds of the EIB loan would be passed on
to Parnu Municipality as a loan, denominated in US$, to support the financing of the Parnu DH
rehabilitation component. The loan to Parnu Municipality would be made at the IBRD interest rate
plus a mark-up not to exceed 10% to be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years grace on repayment
of principal. The maturity of 15 years allows for a 5 year grace period corresponding to the
implementation period of the project and a repayment period of 10 years corresponding to the
expected life of the investments.
2.35         About US$ 6.8 million equivalent of the proceeds of the Swedish Government loan
and about US$ 5.7 million equivalent of the proceeds of the World Bank loan would be passed on to
Tartu Municipality as loans, denominated in US$, to support the financing of the Tartu DH
rehabilitation component. The loans to Tartu Municipality would be made at the IBRD interest rate
plus a mark-up not to exceed 10% to be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years grace on repayment
of principal. The maturity of 15 years allows for a 5 year grace period corresponding to the
implementation period of the project and a repayment period of 10 years corresponding to the
expected life of the investments.
2.36         About US$ 5.2 million equivalent of the proceeds of the World Bank Loan would be
passed on to Eesti Energia as a loan, denominated in US$, to support the financing of the Iru Power
Plant improvement component. The loan to Eesti Energia would be made at the IBRD interest rate
plus a mark-up not to exceed 10% to be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years grace on repayment
of principal. The maturity of 15 years allows for a 5 year grace period corresponding to the
implementation period of the project and a repayment period of 10 years corresponding to the
expected life of the investments. Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Government
and Tallinn and Tartu Municipalities and between the Government and Eesti Energia would be a
condition of Loan effectiveness. (Para. 6.1 (b)). Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and Parnu Municipality would be a condition of effectiveness of the EIB loan.



-23-
municipal and state boiler owners as loans, denominated in Estonian kroons, to support the financing
of the small boiler conversion/replacement component. The loans to boiler owners for boiler
conversions would be made at an interest rate of 10% to be repaid over 7 years, including 1 year
grace on the repayment of principal, and for replacement of boilers, at an interest rate of 10% to be
repaid over 12 years, including 1-2 years' grace on the repayment of principal. The Government
would enter into individual repayment agreements with boiler owners prior to granting sub-loans for
boiler conversion or replacement.
Retroactive Financing
2.38          A provision for retroactive financing up to about US$ 3.8 million has been made for
expenditures incurred after April 15, 1994, primarily for boiler conversions and for other DH
improvements which need to be undertaken in the non-heating season. These activities are necessary
to bring about a reduction of heat production costs prior to the next heating season.
Inflation and Interest Rates
2.39          Inflation rates in Estonia, as measured by chaniges in the Consumer Price Index, were
about 211% in 1991, 1,069 % in 1992 and 36% in 1993 and are estimated at about 15% in 1994,
11% in 1995, 9% in 1996 and 8% thereafter, reflecting gradual stabilization of the economy. Short-
term credit is now available through the commercial banking system; interest rates on commercial
bank loans are administered by the Central Bank of Estonia and have generally kept ahead of inflation
in recent months. Long-term investment loans, however, are not available in Estonia today through
the commercial banking system. The interest rates on long-term investment loans to be provided for
the project by the Bank, the Swedish Government and the European Investment Bank are therefore the
only proxies for appropriate interest rates to be charged to project agencies. The proposed on-lending
interest rate of the IBRD interest rate plus a margin for a total interest rate not to exceed 10% is
considered reasonable, since it would provide a significant spread (2.5-4%) on loans borrowed for the
project. The proposed on-lending interest rate is also in line with on-lending interest rates under the
ongoing Rehabilitation Loan and the EBRD Emergency Energy Loan.
F. Implementation Arrangements
2.40          The lead agency for the project would be the Estonian State Energy Department
which would monitor the overall progress of the project, coordinate with other implementing agencies
and communicate with the Bank, utilizing its staff already in place. The Estonian State Energy
Department would also have primary responsibility, through its Energy Efficiency Division, for
implementation of the small boiler conversion/replacement program with assistance from local and
international consultants which have been retained to evaluate the feasibility of individual proposals
and for the preparation of technical specifications, bidding documents, tendering, bid evaluation,
contract awards, supervision of equipment installation and follow-up. The Estonian State Energy
Department has demonstrated its ability to coordinate and implement similar, small boiler conversion
projects under the National Energy Conservation Programme, for which 180 small boilers have been
converted, including 50 conversions which are similar in type to those proposed for conversion under
the project. Its staffing arrangements are judged to be satisfactory for carrying out the proposed
project.



-24-
2.41         Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu Municipalities' DH companies would be responsible for
implementation of their respective DH rehabilitation components in conjunction with municipality
staff. All municipal DH companies would be assisted by international consultants for the tendering
process, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of equipment installation and follow-up. In all
three towns, agreement has been reached that Project Implementation Units (PIUs) would be formed,
comprised of technical and accounting staff from the municipality and the DH Companies, to oversee
the project. As a condition for negotiations, Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu Municipalities and their DH
companies were required to nominate the personnel for carrying out the project, and these staff are
judged to be adequately qualified for the task.
2.42         Eesti Energia would be responsible for implementation of the Iru Power Plant
improvement component, which would be managed through Eesti Energia's existing departmental
structure. All staff have been assigned and are judged to be qualified for managing this component.
As for other project agencies, Iru Power Plant would be assisted by international consultants for the
tendering process, bid evaluation, contract awards, supervision of equipment installation and follow-
up. During negotiations, agreement was reached with all project agencies regarding the maintenance
of project management arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. (Para 6.1(d)).
2.43         The Ministry of Environment, acting through the State Environment Inspectorate and
its local Environmental Departments, would support, in accordance with their normal procedures, the
monitoring of implementation of the environmental mitigation and monitoring plans adopted for each
investment component of the project. These arrangements are judged to be satisfactory for the
purposes of the project.
2.44         In order to resolve project and policy issues that may arise during implementation, the
high-level, Energy Committee, already in place, would be utilized. The Energy Committee is chaired
by the Minister of Energy and is comprised, among others, of all the key managers of energy
institutions.
2.45         Project implementation would be expected to begin in mid-1994 and would be carried
out over a five-year period. The project implementation schedule is included in Annex 6.
G. Procurement Arrangements
2.46         A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 2.3 following.
2.47         Procurement of supply and installation, works and goods, totaling about 20-25
packages ranging in value from US$ 0.3-6.0 million, would follow ICB procedures using standard
bidding documents according to Bank guidelines except that: (a) limited international bidding (LIB)
procedures would be used for approximately 20 packages of supply and installation of goods for small
boiler conversions, small in value but of more than $50,000 per contract, scattered geographically,
and spread over time, estimated at a total cost of US$2.8 million (about 4% of total procurement); (b)
local shopping procedures would be used for small turnkey contracts for boiler conversions, each
below US$50,000, for an aggregrate amount of up to US$480,000; (c) international shopping
procedures would be used for small contracts for works and goods under US$ 300,000 for a total of
about US$2 million (about 3% of total procurement); and (d) local shopping procedures would be
used for the remaining small works and goods contracts under US$50,000 for a total of about US$0.6
million (about 1% of total procurement). Works and goods would be grouped to



-25-
Table 2.3: PROJECT PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
(in million US dollars)
Pocurement Method
Project Elemnt                     ICB        LCB         OTHER      N.B.F         Totel
cost
1. Supply and Installation:
1. 1 Small boiler replacement      4.61                              0.31          4.92
(4.61)                            (0)          (4.61)
1.2 LArge boiler converstona       6.09                               1.31         7.4
in Trtu and Parnu               (5.55)                             (0)          (5.58)
1.3 Small boiler conversiona                              3.48N      3.41          6.39
(3.26)                   (3.26)
2. Worka:
2.1 Repair of air preheater        0.36                   0.05k                    0.41
(0.36)                 (0)                     (0.36)
2.2 Intallation of IRU                                    0 .61                   0.61
equipment                                              (0.27)                   (0.27)
2.3 Installation of Tallinn         2.34                  2.00                     4.34
DH equipmed                     (1.95)                (0.92)y                  (2.57)
2.4 Installation of Tartu                                             1.63         1.63
DH equipment                                                      (0)          (0.)
2.5 Intallation of Parnu                                              0.92         0.92
DH equipmed                                                       (0)          (0)
3. Goods:
3.1 IRU equipment including        4.50                                            4.50
auto. & measurement, water      (4.50)                                          (4.50)
tratment, pumps
3.2 Tallinn DH equipment            15.53                 1.08W       0.46          17.07
including pipes, pumps,         (15.53)                (1.08)      O            (16.61)
meters, regulators, heat
exchangers, water treatment
equipment, boiler equipment
3.3 Other equipment/machinery                             0.34v                    0.34
including office equipmeat                             (0.34)                   (0.34)
computers and software
3.4 Tartu DH equipment                                                5.44         5.44
(0)          (0)
3.5 Pamu DH equipment                                                 2.40         2.40
(0)          (0)
4. Consultancy services, trining and
related materials:
4.1 Design and upervision                                             3.55         3.35
(0)          (0)
4.2 Technical asaistance and                                          3.78         3.75
training                                                           (0)          (0)
Total                              33.43        0         7.56       23.51         64.50
(32.53)     (0)       (5.57)      (0)          (38.40)
Note:  Figures in parmnthees are the amount financed by the lank lon.  N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
a?    Co-finaced in parllel with the Swedish Government through its aid ageney, BrIS, and the European Invegmait Bank (EIB);
procured in conformity with World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Lons an IDA Credits (May 1992) with minor
modifications for components financed by the EIB.
bt    By local shopping.
c/     By intertionrl shopping.
d/     By limited intermational bidding (LID): US$2.78 million an by local shopping US$0.48 million.



-26-
the extent practical to encourage competitive bidding. Procurement under co-financing arrangements
with the Swedish Government would be administered by the World Bank and would follow the World
Bank's procurement procedures. The part of the project being financed by EIB would also, with
small amendments, follow World Bank procurement procedures. Both the Swedish Government and
EIB would finance separate contracts on a parallel basis.
2.48         When ICB procedures are used, qualified domestic manufacturers may be allowed a
preferential margin of 15%, or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, in the
evaluation of bids, provided the manufacturing costs include a value added in Estonia equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
2.49         All consultants will be financed by grant funds from other donors. Consultants would
be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including review of their qualifications.
Draft terms of reference for consultancy and advisory services were discussed and agreed during
negotiations.
2.50         Prior review of draft tender documents, including review of bid evaluation reports
and recommendations for awards of contracts, would be carried out for all ICB procurement.
Contracts to be awarded under LIB procedures would require review of standardized tender
documents in a sufficient number to ensure compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Included would be the review of bid evaluation reports and recommendations for awards of all LIB
contracts. The list of goods to be procured using international shopping procedures would be
submitted for prior review by the Bank. For international shopping, quotations from a minimum of
three suppliers from at least three World Bank member countries would be required. Some minor
installation works would be procured using local shopping procedures for which quotations from at
least three contractors would be required.
2.51         The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the Development Business
Forum on November 30, 1993, which allows for more than the required 60 days prior to the issuance
of the bidding documents. The GPN will be updated and published annually. At least 30 days prior
to the issuance of bidding documents, individual bidding opportunities will be advertised in a major
local newspaper, and embassies of World Bank member countries located in the country will be
notified. The project agencies would also be expected to advise known eligible and qualified
traditional suppliers.
2.52         Like many other Eastern European and FSU countries, Estonia does not have a
tradition of competitive bidding for the procurement of public goods and services. Therefore, a
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. The Government,
however, recognizes the importance of establishing public procurement regulations as part of its
comprehensive program to transform its economy from a centrally planned to a market-oriented
system based on the development of a competitive private sector. The Government has requested the
Bank to provide assistance in this area, and work began in mid-February 1994.
H. Disbursement
2.53         The proceeds of the Bank Loan would be disbursed against:
(a)    100% of foreign expenditures of all goods contracts;



-27-
(b)    100% of foreign and 85% of local expenditures of the contracts for the
supply and installation of equipment for the small boiler conversion and
replacement projects;
(c)    100% of foreign expenditures and 45% of local expenditures of the contract
for the supply and installation of equipment for the Luunja boiler
conversions;
(d)    70% of local expenditures of the contracts for installation of DH equipment;
(e)    100% of foreign expenditures of the air preheater repair contract; and
(f)    45% of local expenditures of the contracts for the installation of equipment
for Iru Power Plant.
2.54         The Swedish Government loan would be managed by the World Bank under a co-
lender's agreement whereby disbursement requests would be reviewed by the Bank but release of
funds would be managed by the Swedish Government. The Swedish Government loan would be
disbursed against the Tartu DH rehabilitation component (excluding the Luunja boiler conversions)
and part of the small boiler conversion component of the project. The EIB loan would be disbursed
against the Parnu DH rehabilitation component of the project in accordance with EIB disbursement
procedures.
2.55         The disbursement schedule is given in Annex 7. It is expected that disbursements
would be completed by December 31, 1999, about 6 months after completion of equipment supply
and installation. A comparison cannot be made to standard disbursement profiles for district heating
projects, as only one Bank loan has been made to-date for a project of this nature and it is still under
implementation. The disbursement schedule is considered realistic, given that most of the design
work and preparation of technical specifications and tender documents have already been completed.
2.56         Disbursements would be made against standard Bank documentation. Disbursement
under all categories for contracts and purchase orders with a total value less than US$ 50,000 would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOE). In order to ensure the timely provision of
funds available to finance the costs of the project, four Special Accounts would be established for
Tallinn and Tartu Municipalities, Eesti Energia and the Ministry of Finance in the amounts of US$ 1
million, US$ 0.4 million, US$ 0.4 million, and US$ 0.4 million, respectively. Funds in the Special
Accounts would be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the project. During
negotiations agreement was reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the
Special Accounts. (Para. 6.1(e)).
I. Accounts and Audits
Accounting Policies and Revaluation of Assets
2.57         During 1990, the Government required the introduction of a Western accrual
accounting system, which has been implemented, to replace the former Soviet cash-basis of
accounting. Under the Soviet system, all depreciation funds and any profits were remitted to



-28-
Moscow, with the result that little maintenance or rehabilitation of facilities was undertaken. Based
on the new government guidelines after Independence, assets were to be revalued by at least 10-fold
for major plant and from 1-8-fold for smaller assets and depreciation funds established. During the
past three years, project agencies have revalued their assets in accordance with the requirements, but
usually at higher rates (e.g., 12-14-fold by Parnu DH Company during 1991-92 and by 22.5-fold by
Eesti Energia during 1992-93).
2.58         While assets of DH enterprises are still thought to be undervalued, the current
assessment is that it would be inappropriate to proceed with a full asset revaluation, since the
availability of existing facilities and the actual value that can be given to them, in view of their poor
operational efficiency and outdated technology, are uncertain. In addition, existing heat production
facilities have excess capacity due to the large drop in demand over the past several years.
Furthermore, raising tariffs to reflect revaluation of assets would require additional subsidies.
However, once project investments, which are large relative to current asset levels, are
commissioned, the value of assets would be greatly increased and the cost of heat services would
reflect a larger depreciation charge and return on investment as the operational efficiency of assets is
improved.
Project Accounting and Auditing Requirements
2.59         In order to properly record project expenditures, project accounts would be required
to be prepared by each implementing agency, including Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu Municipal DH
Companies, Eesti Energia and the State Energy Department, for their respective parts of the project.
The project accounts would identify all sources and uses of funds in carrying out the project,
including a detailed accounting of the use of the proceeds of the World Bank, Swedish Government
and EIB loans. For all project agencies except Parnu Municipality, the project accounts would be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report would be submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The project accounts' audit reports would
also contain a separate opinion on the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized, and
on the operation of the Special Accounts. For Parnu Municipality, the project account would be
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to EIB, and the audit report would be submitted to EIB
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
2.60         In order to monitor the financial performance of Tallinn and Tartu DH Companies
and Eesti Energia's Iru Power Plant, the revenue-generating implementing agencies, their financial
statements, in addition to their project accounts, would be audited by an auditor acceptable to the
Bank, and the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal
year. The audit reports would contain a separate opinion on compliance by implementing agencies
with all financial covenants under the Bank Loan. The financial statements of Parnu DH Company,
in addition to its project account, would similarly be audited by an auditor acceptable to EIB, and the
audit report would be submitted to EIB within six months of the end of the fiscal year. It is expected
that a local branch of a private, international, commercial auditor, in association with a local auditing
firm if available, would carry out the audits, and this arrangement is considered acceptable. During
negotiations agreement was reached regarding the auditing requirements of the project. (Para. 6.1(f)).



-29-
J. Environmental Aspects
Environmental Review Process
2.61          Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental studies consistent with
the requirements of the Estonian "Order of Carrying out Environmental Impact Assessment"
(Government Regulation 13.11.1992) and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01,
"Environmental Assessment." In accordance with these procedures, a sectoral environmental
assessment, consistent with the requirements for a category "A" project, was prepared for the small
boiler conversion/replacement program. Environmental reviews were prepared, consistent with the
requirements for a category "B" project for the DH rehabilitation program in Tallinn, Tartu and
Parnu and for the Iru (CHP, Tallinn) power plant improvement component. The institutional support
program was placed in category "C" and did not require environmental analysis. The findings of
these environmental studies have been used to support the design of the specific component, and
mitigation and monitoring activities have been identified. The findings of these studies, proposed
mitigation and monitoring activities, and recommended institutional strengthening actions are
presented in Annex 8.
Potential Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures
2.62          Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive environmental
benefits through improved efficiency in the use of indigenous and imported fuels, by contributing to a
reduced level of air pollution in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu, by reducing the wastage of water used in
DH systems, and by promoting the environmentally sound development of local peat and wood as fuel
resources for district heating. The specific potential impacts and mitigation measures for each
proposed project program are as follows:
2.63          Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Prozram. The sector environmental assessment
prepared for the program concluded that sufficient indigenous peat and wood resources exist in
Estonia, including within a 50 km radius of Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu, for these fuel resources to be
used for DH, provided that proper environmental policies and guidelines are used and monitored by
the Government of Estonia. The selection of areas for fuel harvesting and the methods used need to
be controlled to minimize adverse impacts to biological resources and hydrology.
2.64          The proposed program would allow for the use of indigenous peat and wood fuels in
the place of heavy fuel oil which would result in a reduction of the level of air pollution with a
reduction in the emissions of S02, NOx but with a slight increase in the level of dust when peat is
used. The program would improve health by increasing the availability of winter heat supplies and
hot water by providing a more affordable and reliable source of fuel. The program would create a
need to transport peat and/or wood to the boilers which will increase the level of traffic on rural roads
and city streets. Additional storage space will be required to be developed at the boilerhouses for the
storage of adequate supplies of fuel, and measures will be required to cover the peat to avoid dust
blowing into residential and commercial areas. Ash disposal will require transport and disposal in
authorized sites in the case of peat ash and transport to locations where it can be used as a fertilizer in
forests, if desirable, following proper preparation in the case of wood ash.
2.65          Environmental mitigation and monitoring plans have been prepared which would be
implemented by the Ministry of Environment and cooperating implementation organizations. The



-30-
plans includes policy actions: (a) to concentrate most of the harvesting of peat in locations which are
presently developed or have been previously drained to allow for harvesting; (b) to require that fuel
wood is harvested with regular forestry operations as part of a management plan; and (c) that regular
reviews would be conducted to assess appropriate user fees for public and private harvesting of peat
and wood resources including their management and site rehabilitation costs. At the operational level,
the Government of Estonia would adopt environmental guidelines for the harvesting and management
of peat and wood fuel resources, developed on the basis of those proposed in the sectoral
environmental assessment. The plan also includes a number of measures for adoption in wood and
peat harvesting and environmental training. The Bank has reviewed the mitigation and monitoring
plans and judges that they can be implemented in Estonia. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government, acting through the Ministry of Environment, to implement
environmental mitigation and monitoring plans for the project satisfactory to the Bank. (Para. 6. 1(g).
2.66         As per the requirements of the Bank, a consultative process was used for the
preparation of the sectoral environmental assessment for the proposed small boiler conversion/
replacement program, involving concerned ministries and representatives of nongovernmental
organizations (NGOs), including the Estonian Green Movement/Coalition Clean Baltic, Estonian Fund
for Nature and other local NGOs. A meeting with the Estonian State Energy Department, Ministry of
Environment, Estonian Green Movement/Coalition Clean Baltic and the Bank was held to review the
findings of the sectoral environmental assessment and proposed mitigation and monitoring plans.
2.67         Tallinn. Tartu and Parnu DH Rehabilitation Program. Environmental reviews
prepared for each element of the program have been reviewed to assess the potential impacts
associated with selection of fuel harvesting sites, the fuel harvesting process, harvest site
rehabilitation, fuel transportation, storage, combustion and ash disposal. In the older parts of all three
systems, especially the boilers and distribution network, asbestos has been used as an insulating
material; therefore measures need to be taken to minimize the risks to workers involved in the
removal of this material. In addition, proper steps need to be taken to assure that it is properly and
safely disposed of in consultation with local environmental authorities. The major environmental
aspects of the three elements of this program are:
2.68         Tallinn DH Rehabilitation Component. In Tallinn it is estimated that energy
production is responsible for 90% of the S02 emissions and 15-20% of the NOx emissions and
contributes to the dust levels. It is anticipated that the improvements of the oil-fired burners and
substations should increase fuel efficiency and reduce air emissions, especially S02. The
improvements to the distribution system and the water treatment component would also significantly
decrease the use of chemicals and the wastage of water.
2.69         Tartu DH Rehabilitation Com2onent. The converted boilers at the Luunja plant will
be equipped with electrostatic precipitators, and the Ropka plant will be equipped with cyclone dust
cleaning equipment. In order to reduce excessive fuel costs and to increase fuel security, a local
strategy has recently been adopted to use either heavy fuel oil or, as an alternative, a combination of
fuels including wood fuels and peat. The proposed project would support this alternative approach
which would result in reduced S02 and NOx emissions when compared with the heavy fuel oil
alternative. The investments in emissions control equipment would also limit particulates associated
with the use of peat. The proposed peat harvesting sites are fully developed locations with large
reserves. The sources of wood fuels have been identified; significant wood fuel resources exist
locally outside protected areas.



-31-
2.70          Parnu DH Rehabilitation Component. The proposed program would result in positive
environmental impacts by reducing emissions from the use of heavy fuel oil through the substitution
of peat and wood fuels. The water treatment component and rehabilitation of the distribution system
would significantly decrease the use of chemicals and the wastage of water. The improvement of
substations would also contribute to greater energy efficiency. The proposed peat harvesting sites are
fully developed locations with large reserves. The sources of wood fuels have been identified;
significant wood fuel resources exist locally outside protected areas. The Parnu Environment Office
has approved the conversion of the boilers from heavy fuel oil to the use of peat and wood chips and
has also approved the use of peat from presently operating harvesting areas to the northwest and
northeast of Parnu. In addition, it has authorized the disposal of the ash from the boiler at the present
solid waste disposal site.
2.71          Iru (CHP. Tallinn) Power Plant Improvement Component. Improvements to the
preheater and automation system would allow for improved efficiency in the use of fuel and slightly
reduce flue gases. The decrease in flue gas emissions would reduce the environmental emission fees
which are paid by Eesti Energia to the Estonian Environmental Fund. Improvements to the water
treatment system would allow for significant improvements in the water chemistry at the plant,
resulting in reduced corrosion and scaling problems while decreasing the use of treatment chemicals
by approximately 40%. In addition, these improvements and rehabilitation activities to be included
under the project would reduce the need for make-up water in the system. The alternative of
installing air quality monitoring equipment in the stack of the plant was reviewed, and it was decided
that periodic measurements using the alternative of mobile equipment would be more cost effective.
The emissions from the plant will be monitored and evaluated in the context of the existing air quality
monitoring system for Tallinn.
2.72          Institutional Support Program. It is proposed that this program include an activity to
support training of parties involved in planning, conduct and regulation of peat and wood fuels
harvesting in the application of environmental guidelines prepared as an element of the sectoral
environmental assessment discussed above. The EU, through its PHARE program, has proposed that
a training program for environmental aspects of wood fuels and peat management be included as part
of its future activities in Estonia. In addition, the EU PHARE program and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) will conduct a comprehensive review of the
environmental monitoring needs of Estonia in the near future.
K. Supervision
2.73          As this is the first Bank-supported, energy sector investment loan to Estonia and
given the number of project agencies, the project is expected to require a significant supervision
effort, particularly during the first two years when a large portion of the procurement actions will be
undertaken. Therefore, it is planned that about 25 staff-weeks of effort for the first two years and
about 15 staff-weeks thereafter would be required for supervision. A detailed supervision plan was
discussed during negotiations and is attached as Annex 14. A schedule of performance indicators will
be discussed during project launch.



-32-
III. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
A. Estonian State Energy Department
3.1           The Estonian State Energy Department was established in April 1992 as a separate
state-owned, energy agency reporting to the Minister of Energy. Its primary responsibility to-date
has been to implement the Government's National Energy Conservation Programme, which is now in
progress. It's staffing and operational costs are funded by the Government, and it does not generate
revenues of its own. Loans to boiler owners for conversion or replacement of small boilers under the
National Energy Conservation Program are provided by the Ministry of Finance, based on
recommendations of the Department, and repaid directly to the Ministry of Finance.
3.2           The Estonian State Energy Department is headed by a Director and is organized into
three divisions of economics, energy efficiency and information. Its Energy Efficiency Division has
been responsible for implementation of the boiler conversion projects and is also responsible for DH
heat metering standards and norms. Its Economics Division has been responsible for collecting and
analyzing information on energy prices and collecting statistics on fuels. The Department has also
been coordinating and guiding a number of studies being supported by various donors and has
organized and participated in Steering Committees for the feasibility studies for the proposed project.
Its organization chart is shown as Chart 1.
3.3           The Department has a relatively small staff of 13 persons, and about half of these will
be assigned to implementation of the small boiler conversion/replacement program. Its staff are well-
qualified and have demonstrated their ability to manage a large number of boiler projects during the
last year. As mentioned previously, its staff would be supported by about 10 local consulting
companies as well as international consultants for the boiler projects. The staffing arrangements for
the boiler program are judged to satisfactory for the purposes of carrying out the project.
B. The District Heatine Companies
3.4          In April 1992, the Government initiated the process of restructuring its DH sector
through a program of "municipalization" or transfer of responsibilities for DH services from the state
to local authorities. In October 1992 the Government decreed that this process should be completed
by November 1, 1992. Until this time, the state-owned companies Eesti Energia and Thermest owned
and operated the majority of the DH systems in the major towns in the country; Eesti Energia owned
the major power plants and generally the larger networks and Thermest owned the smaller boilers and
networks up to the substations. Substations, located in buildings, were already owned by
municipalities by their house maintenance companies. The municipalization of DH systems is
essentially complete, but a few DH enterprises have yet to be transferred due to the reluctance of
some municipalities to accept the enterprises which have been experiencing financial difficulties since
the onset of the energy price shocks during 1991-93. All DH enterprises in the project cities of
Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu have been transferred as required, with the exception of Tallinn Soojus Vork
which is still owned by Eesti Energia, discussed below.



-33-
Tallinn DH Companies
3.5           The Tallinn DH system is owned and operated by three companies: (a) Eesti Energia
which owns and operates the Iru CHP plant that supplies heat to eastern Tallinn; (b) Tallinn Soojus
Vork (Tallinn DH Network Company), a subsidiary of Eesti Energia, which owns and operates the
primary networks and 5 major heat-only boiler plants and buys heat from Iru and supplies it, along
with part of its own heat produced, to (c) Tallinna Kommunaal Soojus Vorgud (Tallinn Municipal DH
Company) which owns and operates the secondary networks as well as 50 small, separate networks
and large substations. The Iru Power Plant will continue to be owned by Eesti Energia and is
discussed in more detail in the following section.
3.6           While only part of the Tallinn DH system has been municipalized to-date, the
Government is planning to merge the two DH companies into a joint-stock company by July 1, 1995.
This arrangement is judged as the best alternative both for the operation of the system in an efficient
manner and for the most adequate handling of the proposed project. However, the merger and
corresponding restructuring will require technical assistance to carry out the process in a smooth and
orderly way. To assist in this effort, draft terms of reference have been prepared for consultancy
assistance and which are now under review by the members of the working group created to
implement the merger and restructuring. This technical assistance program is to be carried out in two
phases, and the first phase includes the key steps necessary to legally create the proposed new DH
company and the minimum conditions to make it operational. These first steps include completion of
(a) corporate by-laws; (b) corporate structure; (c) opening balance sheet with a satisfactory financial
condition; (d) key contracts to govern main relations, particularly those related to (i) service license
with the Municipality, (ii) bulk supply from heat producers, and (iii) standard and special retail supply
with consumers; and (e) minimum management and organizational systems in operations and with
responsible staff assigned to them. The second phase includes assistance for the detailed development
of operational systems including training of staff. During negotiations, agreement was reached that
these first phase conditions would be completed by no later than July 1, 1995, when the project will
be in the full process of implementation, and that the second phase conditions would be completed by
no later than July 1, 1997, As it was not yet clear which agency, Eesti Energia or Tallinn
Municipality, would be the majority shareholder in the joint-stock company and which agency would
be responsible for borrowing and repaying the sub-loan provided from the proceeds of the Bank loan,
as a condition for negotiations, the Government identified Tallinn Municipality as the agency
responsible for borrowing and repaying the sub-loan for the Tallinn DH rehabilitation component.
Tartu DH Companies
3.7           The Tartu DH system is now owned and operated by three companies as well: (a)
Tartu Soojus which owns and operates 3 separate and distinct networks and heat-only-boilers; (3)
Tartu Keskkatlamaja Soojus which owns and operates the largest current heat-only-boiler plant and a
network which is now shared with (c) Anne Soojus recently formed (September 30, 1993) as a joint-
stock company, with the municipality as majority shareholder, to operate the Luunja heat-only-boiler
plant proposed for conversion under the project.
3.8           The Municipality of Tartu has established a uniform tariff for the city's residents and
thus for each of the two DH companies which sell heat to consumers. In order to achieve the
uniform tariff, the Municipality proposed to utilize the average of the tariffs required by the two



-34-
companies, which implies that one company would earn profits while the other is forced to operate
with losses, which is clearly not a commercial basis of operation. A third complication concerns the
newly-established joint-stock company, Anne Soojus, for which it is not clear as to how it will sell
heat to the network. Clear rules of operation, both on a financial and technical basis, must be
established to permit commercial operations which must be in place in a timely manner for the
proposed project.
3.9           The Municipality of Tartu has recently decided to create, out of these companies, one
network company which will have all transmission and distribution facilities under its responsibility.
The reasoning behind this decision rests on the following basic factors: (i) to unite all the natural
monopoly functions; (ii) to have a uniform tariff system for all DH clients within the Municipality;
(iii) to better accompany the expected development of the city; (iv) to achieve economies of scale and
competition in the purchasing of bulk heat; and (v) to reduce costs through interconnection of the
small systems. On the production side, the Municipality has decided to create five companies, one
for each heat-only-boiler plant in order to increase the opportunities for competition which is more
viable if several producers are involved in this activity which is not a monopoly and to encourage a
larger number of potential bidders in the eventual privatization process, a medium-term goal of the
Municipality. This restructuring of the DH enterprises of Tartu is in line with the Government's
policy and strategy. To implement this restructuring, a similar restructuring assistance program has
been recommended and draft terms of reference have been prepared and which, under the first phase,
would also include the same key steps as for the case of Tallinn to legally create the enterprise and
ensure its operational viability. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Tartu Municipality
that these first phase steps would be completed by no later than December 31, 1994, and that the
second phase steps would be completed by no later than July 1, 1997. (Para. 6.1(h)).
Parnu DH Company
3.10          The DH enterprise previously owned by Eesti Energia was transferred to Parnu
Municipality in September 1992. The facilities, consisting of 3 heat-only boilers serving 2 separate
networks and some small boilers connected to a few buildings, serve most of the city's residents.
Other independent producers of heat (e.g., Visnurk Furniture Factory) also serve selected areas of the
city. As only one municipal company operates the main DH system, institutional restructuring is not
required at this time in Parnu as in Tallinn and Tartu.
3.11          The Board of the Parnu DH Company consists of representatives from the
Municipality and the Managing Director of the DH Company. The personnel of the Company
comprise about 170 technical staff, primarily engineers, and 12 administrative staff. Recruitment of
technical personnel is carried out by a private external recruitment agency, which ensures that the
personnel have the necessary educational and practical background. The personnel of the DH
Company are judged to be generally well-qualified. An organization chart for the Parnu DH
Company is included as Chart 2.



-35-
C. Estonian State Power Company and its Iru Power Plant
3.12          Since Independence, the Estonian State Power Company (Eesti Energia) has been
reestablished as a state enterprise responsible for the production and supply of electric power and also
for the production and supply of heat through co-generation in selected areas. It owns and operates
the two main power plants in the northeast as well as the newer, Iru CHP plant built in 1980 in
Tallinn.
3.13          Its Iru Power Plant is treated as a separate expenditure center and takes direction from
Eesti Energia's management. All heat produced by Iru, less own use and losses, is sold to Tallinn's
DH Network Company. Its staff are judged to be well-qualified, both in the technical and financial
areas.



-36-
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past Financial Performance of Project Agencies
4.1           DH Companies. The past financial performance and present position of DH
enterprises are typically the same for the period 1992-93. DH companies have been experiencing
serious cash flow problems resulting from the inability of consumers to pay their bills on time due to
the explosive increases in heat charges and thus were able to show surpluses on operations in 1992
only as a result of receipt of government operating subsidies. With the recent discontinuance of
government operating subsidies during August 1993 along with an ineffective subsidy program for
households introduced about the same time, performance deteriorated further during the latter part of
1993. While Estonian households have had a history of good payment performance, the heat charges
for minimal levels of service were largely unaffordable during the 1992/93 heating season and further
tariff increases alone would not have solved the problem. This performance demonstrates the need to
reduce heat production and operating costs through efficient investments and for more effective
subsidy schemes for households to permit them to better pay for heat services. The past and present
financial performance of Tartu, Parnu and Tallinn DH companies are shown in Annexes 9-11.
4.2           Iru Power Plant. The past financial performance and present position of the Iru
Power Plant appears to be similar to the DH companies in that it experienced losses on combined heat
and electricity operations. Iru's electricity-producing units are underutilized due to the dramatic
decline in electricity demand, which is now fully met by Eesti Energia's power plants in the
northeast. For Iru's heat-only operations, income statements for 1992 and 1993 have been prepared,
but do not show all transactions, particularly assistance provided by Eesti Energia to make up for the
difficulties which Tallinn Network Company is experiencing in paying for heat purchased from Iru.
Thus, the reported surplus on Iru's heat-only operations at December 31, 1993 is not representative of
the true financial situation. Income statements for its heat-only operations and balance sheets for
combined-heat-and-power operations for 1992 and 1993 are shown in Annex 12.
B. Heat Tariffs
4.3           Since the onset of the energy price shocks in early 1992, the Government has made
heroic efforts to raise heat tariffs to keep pace with the rapid rise in heat production and operating
costs. For example, between January and March 1992 alone, residential and industrial tariffs
increased by 7-fold and 25-fold, respectively, and residential tariffs increased by 60-fold for the year.
Since then, tariffs continued to rise to a level of about EEK 200 per MWh in September 1993.
4.4           Up until August 1993, tariffs were established by the Government, and the difference
between the tariff needed to cover the costs of production and operation and the established tariff was
provided as a subsidy to the heat production enterprise. After this time, municipalities have been
designated as the responsible authorities for regulating tariffs of municipal district heating companies
and the Ministry of Economy for regulating tariffs of Eesti Energia, and direct subsidies to heat
production enterprises by the Government have been eliminated and replaced with targeted programs
of assistance to households. The current formula adopted by project municipalities for establishing
the tariff is appropriate, allowing the heating enterprises to charge for all costs of production,
operation and maintenance, depreciation, interest charges and a profit element. During negotiations,



-37-
agreement was obtained that project municipalities and the Ministry of Economy would continue to
approve regular tariff increases sufficient to allow their respective DH companies and Iru Power Plant
to cover the costs of production, operations and maintenance, depreciation, interest and make a
contribution to reserves. (Para. 6.1(i)). The analysis of tariff increases would be carried out at the
end of each fiscal year to determine the rate of the next increase.
C. Billing and Collection Performance of Project Agencies
4.5          DH enterprises contract with municipal house maintenance companies to prepare bills
and collect payments for heat services from consumers. Due to the limited metering of heat
production plants and consumption, the costs of heat production and operation are attributed to each
building according to estimated consumption in the building, and in the case of apartment buildings,
divided among households. Billing is up-to-date, carried out on a monthly basis, and added to
household charges for rent and other utilities. While this system of billing provides an incentive for
consumers to install heat meters since heat losses are paid by the non-metered consumers, few
consumers have the ability to pay for the installation of meters. Metering of production plants and
consumer substations would be improved under the project.
4.6          Collection performance of heat bills by DH companies deteriorated during 1992 but
has generally improved as of end-1993. Due to the large rise in heat tariffs relative to the growth of
incomes, during 1992 many consumers were not able to pay their bills on time, causing a large build-
up of arrears during the heating season but which was reduced during the summer months. However,
by end-1993, this performance improved. Collection performance in Parnu and Tartu at end-
December 1993 was reasonable with arrears amounting to at'about 66 and 47 days, respectively.
Collection performance in Tallinn, however, has been much more problematic, with arrears from
consumers at end-December 1993 amounting to about 113 days for the two DH companies on a
consolidated basis. This is thought to be due to the higher service levels provided in the capital
during the past winter season than in Parnu and Tartu. The consultancy services to assist with the
restructuring of the Tallinn DH Companies would be expected to provide advice on measures for
reducing the arrears in Tallinn. Collection performance in 1994 and thereafter is expected to improve
as a result of the new household subsidy scheme, administered by the house maintenance companies,
introduced in January 1994.
D. Future Financial Performance of Project Agencies
4.7          Projections of financial performance of DH companies and Iru Power Plant over the
period 1994-99 are shown in Annexes 9-12. Projections of Tallinn's and Tartu's DH companies have
been prepared on a consolidated basis. The projections have been prepared on a conservative basis
assuming that: (a) heat demand would increase over the next few years to reflect normal year
temperatures and better service levels and thereafter to reflect planned development and efficiency
gains under the project; (b) fuel prices would increase with inflation; and (c) long-term investment
loans to project agencies under the project would be at an interest rate of 10%, with a maturity of 15
years, including a 5-year grace period. In addition, Tartu Municipality would borrow its
contributions to the project cost from domestic commercial banks at an interest rate of 15%, with a
maturity of 5 years. Tallinn Municipality, on the other hand, is expected to provide its counterpart
contribution as an equity injection to its new Joint-Stock DH Company.



-38-
4.8          TatEM. The financial projections, including income statements and sources and
applications of funds statements along with financial performance indicators, for consolidated
operations of Tartu's three DH companies show that the project investments would have a significant
positive impact on heat tariffs, since tariffs would be reduced as a result of cost savings brought about
by the boiler conversions and other efficiency improvements. In 1994, before key investments are
commissioned, tariffs would be required to increase substantially with the phasing out of subsidies to
the DH companies. However, in 1995, tariffs would decrease in nominal terms, and future tariff
increases would not be expected to increase above domestic inflation. With these tariff levels, the
Tartu DH companies would be expected to maintain satisfactory financial performance, with an
improved operating ratio largely related to the fuel mix (reducing from over 100% in 1993 to about
74% by 1999), and adequate working capital and debt service coverage (minimum 1.3). Tartu DH
companies have recently borrowed a number of loans which, together with the project loans, are
significant compared to their ability to repay these loans. Therefore, in order to protect their
financial position, during negotiations agreement was obtained that Tartu Municipality would require
its DH companies to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period.
(Para. 6.1 0)). To properly monitor financial performance, during negotiations agreement was
obtained that Tartu Municipality would require its DH companies to prepare a report annually,
containing 5-year financial projections beginning FY95 to be reviewed by the Bank on an annual
basis. (Para. 6.1(ck)). The financial projections for the combined operations of Tartu's DH
companies are presented in Annex 9.
4.9          Par. The financial projections, including income statements, sources and
applications of funds statements and balance sheets along with financial performance indicators, for
Parnu's DH company show similarly that project investments would have a significant positive impact
on heat tariffs. As with Tartu, heat tariffs would increase in 1994 but would decrease in nominal
terms in 1995 with future tariff increases at or below the rate of domestic inflation. However, even
with a substantial tariff increase in 1994, Parnu DH Company is expected to experience a serious cash
flow problem during that year due primarily to the repayment obligation in full of a loan due June
1994 for purchases of heavy fuel oil advanced from the World Bank Rehabilitation Loan. Given that
subsidies have been abolished, the heavy fuel oil loan has to be paid back and investments are about
to be undertaken, Parnu DH Company will require a prolongation of the repayment period of the
heavy fuel oil loan for at least an additional three years, which was agreed with the Ministry of
Finance. Therefore, in order for Parnu's DH Company to maintain its creditworthiness, as a
condition for negotiations of the EIB loan, the Government would prolong the repayment terms of
Parnu's DH Company's loan for heavy fuel oil by at least three years.
4.10         Based on the projected tariff levels, the Parnu DH Company would be expected to
maintain satisfactory financial performance, with an improved operating ratio (from over 100% in
1993 to 67% by 1999), and adequate working capital and debt service coverage (minimum 1.3).
Since Parnu's DH Company has large debt obligations, including an EBRD loan commencing in
1994, in order to protect its financial position, during negotiations of the EIB loan, agreement would
be sought that Parnu Municipality would require its DH Company to maintain a debt service coverage
ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period. To properly monitor financial performance, during
negotiations of the EIB loan, agreement would be sought that Parnu Municipality would require its
DH Company to prepare a report annually, containing 5-year financial projections beginning in FY95
to be reviewed by the EEB on an annual basis. The financial projections for the Parnu DH Company
are presented in Annex 10.



-39-
4.11         Tallinn. Projections of financial performance, including income statements and
sources and applications of funds statements along with financial performance indicators, for
consolidated operations of Tallinn's two DH companies show that the project investments would have
a positive impact on the required tariff increases, but not to the same extent as Tartu and Parnu which
would benefit from significant savings from conversion of boilers to local fuels. Tariffs are estimated
to grow at rates less than domestic inflation over the project period. With these tariff levels,
Tallinn's new Joint-Stock Company would be expected to maintain satisfactory financial performance,
with an improved operating ratio (from over 100% in 1993 to about 96% by 1999), and adequate
working capital and debt service coverage (above 1.3). Unlike other towns, Tallinn's DH companies
currently do not have any prior long-term debt. However, project loans are large relative to the
consolidated company's ability to repay and thus in order to protect the new company's financial
position, during negotiations agreement was obtained that Tallinn Municipality would require its DH
Company to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period. To
properly monitor financial performance, during negotiations agreement was obtained that Tallinn
Municipality would require its DH company to prepare a report annually, containing 5-year financial
projections beginning FY95 to be reviewed by the Bank on an annual basis. The financial projections
for the combined operations of Tallinn's DH companies are presented in Annex 11.
4.12         Iru Power PIn. Projections of Iru's financial performance, including income
statements and sources and applications of funds statements along with financial performance
indicators, of its heat-only operations have been carried out assuming that production levels remain
relatively constant over the project period, after adjusting for normal year temperatures, since it
supplies heat to only one customer, the Tallinn DH Network Company, and its demand for heat from
Iru is expected to remain the same. As both Iru and the Network Company are owned by Eesti
Energia, payment of heat bills to Iru has been assured by Eesti Energia's management, and therefore
it has essentially no outstanding heat bills in arrears. The projections show that, since tariffs have
been set at levels to cover its costs of production and operation, no major tariff increases, above the
level of domestic inflation, would be required. With modest tariff increases, Iru is expected to
maintain a satisfactory financial performance, with adequate working capital and debt service
coverage (minimum 1.3). In order to maintain a sound financial position, during negotiations
agreement was obtained that Eesti Energia would require Iru Power Plant to maintain a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period. To properly monitor financial performance,
during negotiations agreement was obtained that Eesti Energia would require Iru Power Plant to
prepare a report annually, containing 5-year financial projections beginning in FY95 to be reviewed
by the Bank on an annual basis. The financial projections for Iru Power Plant are presented in Annex
12.



10-
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1           The proposed project would have significant economic benefits related to reduced fuel
costs and import requirements, improved efficiency in DH systems and improvement of
environmental conditions in affected areas. The assumptions for calculating the economic rates of
return for the various components are described in detail following and summarized in Annex 13.
The weighted average internal economic rate of return ([ERR) for the project, for components for
which benefits could be quantified and which amount to about 94% of the total project cost, is 24%.
5.2           A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to evaluate the impact on the 1ERRs should
investment costs increase by 10% or benefits resulting from efficiency gains and fuel cost savings
reduce by 10%. In addition, the sensitivity of the IERRs for components including boiler conversions
was tested for the assumption that local fuel costs would increase in real terms. In this case, it was
conservatively assumed that local fuel prices would increase within five years to price levels observed
in economies with high labor costs such as Sweden or Finland. A summary of the JERRs for each
component, along with the results of the sensitivity analysis, is presented below in Table 5. 1.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF IERRs AND SENSITIVrlY ANALYSIS (%)
Component                  EERR       Costs      Beneits    Costs +10%    Lal Fua
+ 10%       -10%        Bemerits      Prie
-10%       inorem
Boiler Conversions          29         25          24            20           19
Boiler Replacements          10         8           8             7            3
Tallinn DH Rehabilitation    23        20          20            18
Tartu DH Rehabilitation      29        25          25            22           24
Parnu DH Rehabilitation     28         25          24            21           20
Iru Improvements             18        16          16            14
Weighted Average IERR       24         21          21            is           19
5.3           A further sensitivity analysis was undertaken to test the robustness of the economic
profiles of each project component to changes in the key variables in the cost and benefit streams,
such as investment costs and fuel cost savings, which are subject to risk and uncertainty. This
analysis shows that the economic performance of the project components is quite robust and
economically attractive, as only with very large increases in the investment costs or large decreases in
the benefit streams would the IERRs fall to levels below the opportunity cost of capital of about 10%.
The graphs of this analysis for each project component are shown in Annex 13.
5.4           For components utilizing local fuels (peat and wood), the costs of local fuels were
based on the prices paid by owners of heat production plant and are considered a good proxy for
economic costs, since the quantities required of local fuels are not constrained by the availability of



41-
these resources and there is adequate competition in the production and transportation of these fuels.
Local fuel costs were found to vary across project towns due primarily to the differences in
production and local transportation costs. Some differences in imported fuel costs in project towns
were also found, related to the differences in transportation costs.
5.5           Shadow prices for foreign exchange and labor costs are not required for the economic
analysis. Since Estonia is a highly open economy, an exchange rate conversion factor to compensate
for price distortions related to trade barriers is not needed. Similarly, since the Government has
allowed a massive erosion of real wage rates in line with declining national product, a non-unitary
conversion factor for labor costs is not required.
Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program
5.6           The estimated fuel cost savings from use of lower-cost indigenous fuels is used as the
measure of the economic benefit of the small boiler conversion program. All equipment and
installation costs, including physical contingencies, were considered in the analysis for typical I MW
boilers being converted. The costs were adjusted to exclude taxes, duties and estimated inflation
costs. The incremental recurrent costs associated with the maintenance of converted boilers and
handling of ash from the burning of local fuels were also included. Costs and benefits were
considered over the average life of the investments of 7 years for the boiler conversion program. On
this basis, the IERR for typical 1 MW boiler conversion projects is estimated at about 29%.
5.7           The estimated total cost savings derived primarily from use of lower-cost indigenous
fuels is used as the measure of the economic benefit of the small boiler replacement program. Small
boilers would be replaced with new boilers using local fuels when they have reached the end of their
useful life. The economic analysis compares the costs of installing a new boiler using local solid
fuels with the cost of installing a new oil-fired boiler. All equipment and installation costs, including
physical contingencies, were considered in the analysis for typical 1 MW boilers being replaced. The
costs were adjusted to exclude taxes, duties and estimated inflation costs. The incremental recurrent
costs associated with the maintenance of local fuel boilers and handling of ash from the burning of
local fuels were also included. Costs and benefits were considered over the average life of the
investments of 20 years for the boiler replacement program. On this basis, the [ERR for typical 1
MW boiler replacement projects is estimated at about 10%.
5.8           Further unquantifiable benefits would result from the generation of professional and
technical employment required for the design and fabrication of peat harvesting equipment, redesign
and conversion of the boilers, and the planning and supervision of the wood fuels and peat harvesting
operations. At the semi-skilled and unskilled level, the project would generate employment in rural
areas where fuel supplies are harvested and would also create opportunities in the transportation sector
for the hauling of local fuels to the boiler houses and the removal of ashes to authorized disposal
sites. The component would also create opportunities in urban and rural areas for private sector
initiatives in the provision of fuel supplies for the converted boilers.
Tallinn. Tartu and Parnu District Heating Rehabilitation Components
5.9           Economic benefits for the Tallinn DH rehabilitation component are based on a
number of items including estimates of: (a) fuel savings from improved boiler efficiency resulting
from the investments in combustion controls; (b) reductions in heat demand resulting from efficiency



-42-
improvements in substations permitting better regulation and controls; (c) savings in operating and
maintenance costs after improvements of the water treatment system and longer lifetime; (d)
electricity savings with installation of variable speed pumps; and (e) reduction of heat and water
losses in the network through the replacement of a section of the pipeline and ventilation of concrete
culverts.
5.10          The main economic benefits for the Tartu DH rehabilitation component were derived
from estimated fuel costs savings as a result of the conversion of various baseload boilers to use of
lower-cost indigenous fuels. In addition, economic benefits are based on other items similar to the
Tallinn component, namely estimates of: (a) fuel savings from improved boiler efficiency resulting
from the investments in combustion controls; (b) reductions in heat demand resulting from efficiency
improvements in substations permitting better regulation and controls; (c) savings in operating and
maintenance costs after improvements of the water treatment system and longer lifetime; and (d)
reduction of heat and water losses in the network through the replacement of sections of the pipeline,
at times which are under groundwater level, and ventilation of concrete culverts.
5.11          The economic benefits for the Parnu DH rehabilitation component are comparable to
those of Tartu and largely based on estimates of fuel costs savings as a result of the conversion of
various baseload boilers to use of lower-cost indigenous fuels. Other benefits are derived from
estimates of: (a) reductions in heat demand resulting from efficiency improvements in substations
permitting better regulation and controls; (b) savings in operating and maintenance costs after
improvements of the water treatment system and longer lifetime; (c) reduction of heat and water
losses in the network through the replacement of sections of the pipeline and ventilation of concrete
culverts; and (d) electricity savings with installation of variable speed pumps and new control and
regulation system.
5.12          All equipment and installation costs, including physical contingencies, were
considered in the analysis of the three towns' DH rehabilitation components and adjusted to exclude
taxes, duties and estimated inflation costs. The incremental recurrent costs associated with the
maintenance of converted boilers and handling of local fuels and ash from the burning of local fuels
were also included as was an estimate of the further design and supervision costs. Costs and benefits
were considered over the average life of the investments of 20 years for each of the three town's
components. On this basis, the EERRs for the Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu DH rehabilitation components
are estimated at about 23%, 29% and 28%, respectively.
Iru Power Plant Improvement Component
5.13          The main benefits of the improvement program at Iru Power Plant are derived from
estimates of: (a) fuel savings from better efficiency in the steam boiler due to the improved air
prebeater and better efficiency of the steam and hot water boilers due to better combustion control and
automation; (b) reductions in operating and maintenance costs due to better operation control and
improved water quality; (c) lower costs of chemicals and other consumables reswting from the
introduction of a modern water treatment system; and (d) longer lifetime of power plant equipment
and the DH system. All equipment and installation costs, including physical contingencies, were
considered in the analysis and adjusted to exclude taxes, duties and estimated inflation costs. Also
included is an estimate of the supervision costs. Costs and benefits were considered over the average
life of the investments of 15 years. On this basis, the IERR for the Iru Power Plant improvement
component is estimated at about 18%.
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ------



B. Project Risks
5.14          Being the first project of its kind in Estonia, the project has a number of risks. The
implementation capacity of most project agencies in carrying out an investment project of this order
of magnitude to-date is untested, and may result in a longer implementation period than expected. To
reduce this risk, the detailed implementation arrangements have been fully identified and agreed with
all concerned project agencies prior to project start-up, adequate staffing arrangements would be in
place and a high level Energy Committee, already in place, would be utilized to resolve difficulties
which may arise, thereby helping to ensure smooth project performance. In addition, international
and local engineering consultants would assist project agencies with the technical implementation of
the project.
5.15          The risk of insufficient local fuel supplies for converted boilers could arise as a result
of problems related to: (a) fuel availability which is dependent on forest owners' willingness to allow
the harvesting of wood for this purpose, condition of transport routes, transportation capacity and
demands from other sectors; (b) fuel prices which are affected by the above-mentioned factors as well
as by the lack of Government regulations regarding the pricing of these resources and overall supply
and demand conditions; and (c) fuel quality which is mainly dependent on weather conditions (this
particularly affects peat). In order to minimize this risk, prior to project start-up, Parnu and Tartu
Municipalities, which own the larger boilers being converted, would be required to enter into
contracts for the supply of at least 60% of the local fuel requirements for the next two years. Boiler
owners in other municipalities that would be receiving equipment for converting or replacing small
boilers to use local fuels would also need to prepare plans for the supply of local fuels as a condition
for receiving support under the project.
5.16          There is a risk of heat tariff increases not being implemented for political or other
reasons. Given the strong demonstration of commitment by the Government and DH companies to
adjusting heat tariffs frequently during the recent period of energy price shocks, this risk is expected
to be relatively small. Monitoring performance in this area would be a major focus of attention
during Bank supervision.
5.17          There is also the possibility that the timetable for the restructuring of the Tallinn DH
Companies (by July 1, 1995) and the Tartu DH Companies (by December 31, 1994) may not be met.
A working group comprised of local officials and representatives of the DH companies for the Tallinn
restructuring has been formed and is already advancing the arrangements for the merger of the two
companies. Tartu Municipality is similarly advancing the arrangements for the restructuring of its
DH companies. Further assistance under the project for restructuring has been included in the
package of institutional support. The restructuring, however, need not be complete in order to
implement the project investments in Tallinn and Tartu as long as appropriate project management
arrangements are in place, which was a condition for negotiations.
5.18          Further uncertainty exists about how effective the new subsidy scheme for households
will be, and this has the potential to negatively impact the financial position of DH companies. If the
new scheme is not working properly, arrears of consumers' heat bills will increase. While the
experience of the subsidy scheme was limited at the time of appraisal, the Government is judged to be
committed to providing the necessary funds in the budget as required by Parliamentary Decree.
Monitoring performance in this area would also be a key focus of attention during supervision of the
project.



-44-
VI. AGREEMENT REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Nefotiations
6.1           During negotiations, agreements were obtained regarding:
(a) Estonian State Energy Department to submit the first four applications for boiler
conversion projects to the Bank for review and approval prior to granting
approval for sub-loans with subsequent sub-loans to be approved in accordance
with the appraisal criteria already agreed with the Bank (para 2.8);
(b) the advisory services for long-term heat planning and for development of a legal
and regulatory framework to be carried out by consultants in accordance with
terms of reference and a timetable satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.27);
(c) on-lending arrangements for the project (paras 2.32-2.37);
(d) maintenance of project management arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para
2.42);
(e) arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Accounts for project
agencies (para 2.56);
(f) auditing requirements of the project (paras 2.59 and 2.60);
(g) Government, acting through the Ministry of Environment, to implement
environmental mitigation and monitoring plans for the project satisfactory to the
Bank (para 2.65);
(h) Tallinn Municipality to complete the first phase conditions for restructuring its
DH companies by no later than July 1, 1995 and Tartu Municipality to complete
the first phase conditions for restructuring its DH companies by no later than
December 31, 1994, and both Municipalities to complete the second phase
conditions by no later than July 1, 1997 (paras 3.6 and 3.9);
(i) Tartu and Tallinn Municipalities and the Ministry of Economy to continue to
approve regular tariff increases sufficient to allow their respective DH companies
and Iru Power Plant to cover the costs of production, operations and
maintenance, depreciation, interest and make a contribution to reserves (para
4.4);
() Tartu and Tallinn Municipalities and Eesti Energia to require their respective DH
companies and Iru Power Plant to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1.3 during the project period (paras 4.8, 4.11 and 4.12); and
(k) Tartu and Tallinn Municipalities and Eesti Energia to require their respective DH
companies and Iru Power Plant to prepare a report annually, containing 5-year



-45-
financial projections beginning FY95 to be reviewed by the Bank on an annual
basis (paras 4.8, 4.11 and 4.12).
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.2          Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a) submission of satisfactory evidence that the loans from co-financiers have been
signed (para 2.31); and
(b) subsidiary loan agreements have been executed between the Government and
Tallinn and Tartu Municipalities and between the Government and Eesti Energia
(para 2.36).
Recommendation
6.3          Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of USS 38.4 million
equivalent at the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 15 years including 5 years grace.
The Borrower would be the Republic of Estonia.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 10
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Statement of Energy Policy and Stratef
Baak     ind
Energy and the Economy
The import of heavy fuel oil and natural gas at world market prices puts a heavy burden on
the Estonian economy and balance of trade. Furthermore, the security of fuel supplies in the heating
sector does not meet reasonable criteria. Consequently, the Government of Estonia has given a high
priority to the energy sector. Structural reforms as well as investments are deemed necessary to
support and sustain a sound economic development of the country and to improve the environment.
Structural Changes in the Energy Sector
The Government's economic policy is focusing on market riberalization and increasing
participation of the private sector. This is also true for the energy sector. However, the Government
will retain (i) its inherent primary role as policy maker and regulator and (ii) in some key areas of the
energy sector, ownership of facilities which, however, in the future may be transferred to the private
sector. Many functions will be transferred to municipal governments (the act of municipalization)
including at present local planning, regulation and ownership in the heating sector, and in the future
maybe also in municipal electricity and gas distribution.
In order to ensure that the institutional structure of the energy sector is coherent with the new
political and economic framework of the country, the Government now issues this Statement of
Energy Policy and Strategy which sets the general principles and objectives for the sector and the
proposed structuring.
Energy Sector Overview
Fuel Resources
Estonia has substantial domestic primary fuel resources in oil shale, peat and waste products
from forestry as well as secondary fuel resources in shale oil and gas from oil shale. Oil shale
reserves are estimated about 1.7 billion tons. Peat reserves are estimated 1.5 billion tons and forest
resources are about 264 million solid cubic meters.
Electricity
Market
Before: Electricity production and transmission was integrated into the former U.S.S.R.
North-West energy system with a regional dispatch center located in Riga. Major power plants are



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
located in the Narva region close to the oil shale mines.
Current: The actors in the market are the state-owned companies Eesti Polekivi (Estonian Oil
Shale) with mining of oil shale and Eesti Energia (Estonian Power) with power generation
transmission and electricity distribution.
Policy Issues: Mining of oil shale and generation and transmission of electricity are expected
to continue for the time being with the state as a majority owner. More efficient oil shale mining
technologies will be used.
As new electric generating capacity will be required, private or municipal ownership in full or
part may be considered. This is, however, not likely to be the case for the immediate future, since
generating capacity at present grossly exceeds current demand.
Local distribution of electricity as well as retail sales may, in the future, be transferred to the
municipalities.
Measures for increasing the amount of electricity exported to neighboring counties should be
considered. A study of electric interconnection under the EU PHARE program in being planned.
Prices
Current: The current average price of electricity for consumers is 0.19 EEK/kWh excluding
18% VAT (November 1993). The price of electricity is controlled by Ministry of Economy. Further
price increases (above general inflation) are inevitable, because of general cost increases, and since
capital costs are not fully accounted for in current tariffs.
Security of supplies
Oil shale is a domestic resource, which at the current production rate will not be depleted
until approximately 60 years.
Municipal plans may be developed, for example, to give adequate security to sensitive
customer categories, and which may allow a greater flexibility in the tariff.
Municipal Heating Sector
Market
Before: The supply of district was a state obligation, which was fulfilled through the state-
owned companies: Eesti Energia, EKSE and through the Ministry of Agriculture. Even before
independence, the structure started to change.
Current: As a part of the local government reform in 1992, responsibility and ownership has
been transferred to municipalities, with some exceptions.
Policy issues: Private participation in production of heat may be encouraged. The model for
regulating distribution and final sale of energy by municipal enterprises should be developed further.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 10
Prices
Current: Due to the sharp price increases immediately after independence, when many
families were not able to pay their heating bills, a state subsidy scheme was developed. As of
January 1, 1994, state subsidies will be given to municipalities only to compensate low income
families. Subsidies are given only if the cost of heating, electricity and rent exceeds 30% of the
family income and only up to a level of 180 EEK/MWh for heating.
Price is currently regulated in the following way. 'Me district heating company must present
its calculation of heat price to the municipality for approval.
Policy issues: The sensitive situation of many consumers must be considered. Improving the
efficiency of and eventually phasing out of the subsidy system should be considered.
District heating utilities have been forced to reduce the quality of heat supply to a minimum,
and as a consequence, customers leave the systems and new customers are difficult to attract. This
may lead to lower efficiency, higher costs and an additional burden for the municipal district heating
systems.
Compulsory metering of heat sold by district heating utilities will be introduced. Sale of heat
under commercial contracts defining supply quality and the required technical standard at the
customer may be considered.
Security of supplies
Current: Investment funds have been made available to municipalities from the Government's
energy conservation program and from international institutions (EU, EBRD) for boiler conversions
and efficiency improvements, and a continuation program is currently planned with World Bank
financing.
Policy issues: Active Government support may continue to allow municipalities to invest in
facilities to reduce the use of fossil fuels, and to increase use of domestic fuels in their district heating
systems which will give increased supply security as well as expected cost reductions. The support
may be in the form of soft loans, to be guaranteed by the municipality.
Mandatory municipal heat planning may be considered.
Petroleum products
Market
Before: Only one key supplier. 100% of market under total state company Eesti Kutus
(Estonian Fuel). Supplies from Russia only by railroads.
Current: Completely open market in 1994 with 35 major actors. The supplies mainly from
Russia (45%) and Lithuania (35%).
Policy issues: Regulation to protect the consumers. Licensing of enterprises to meet
technical and safety standards in ongoing.



ANNEX-I
Page 4 of 10
Prices
Before: Price decided by Ministry. No review of procurement procedures.
Current: Market prices. In 1994 no direct subsidies to any actor.
Security of supplies
Policy issues: Additional measures may be considered that allow adequate quantities of
petroleum products to be stored as well as unloading and transport facilities to be used in the case of
an emergedcy situation. Estonia is supporting transit from Russia to Europe.
Shale oil
Market
Current: Retorted from oil shale, Shale oil production is increased from 319,000 tons in
1991 to 365,000 tons in 1993. Open market, three producing enterprises.
Prices
Current: Shale oil as fuel oil for medium and large boilerhouses is competitive with imported
fuel.
Security of supplies
Production is based on local raw material and local labor.
Policy issues: Important as local basic fuel oil resource in country.
Natural Gas
Market
Current: Eesti Gaas has been transferred into a joint-stock company, with the state owning
39%, Gazprom 30% and other private owners 31%.
Policy issues: Reducing state ownership to 34% is foreseen by selling 5% shares to Estonian
households.
The control of the transmission network may remain under Government control, while
allowing for private participation, or may be regulated by the Government. Transferring distribution
(locally) to municipalities may be considered.
Prices
Price based on one year agreement with Gazprom and contracted quantities up to 1 billion
cubic meters. Price to households is 1,200 EEK/1,000 m3 and for industry 1,120 EEK/1,000 m3
excluding 18% VAT. Market prices.
Security of supplies
At present only one supply country (Russia).
Policy issues. Linking in the future with European network and joint investment for
renovation in gas storage in Latvia may be considered.



ANNEX-1
Page 5 of 10
Building subsector
Ownership
Before: Housing stock was mainly state owned, except cooperative houses.
Current: Privatization process is ongoing.
Policy issues: Guaranteeing the formation of building cooperatives to provide a partner for
the collective supply of heat may be an important issue.
Energy conservation
Before: Low pricing of fossil fuels. No metering of heat sales. No incentives for energy
conservation.
Current: Energy Conservation Program administered by Estonian State Energy Department.
Metering of heat actively supported in program.
Policy issues: Energy conservation criteria may be introduced in new building code.
Ponlicy Statement
General Objectives
The basic objective of the energy sector in Estonia is to provide reliable energy of desired
quality at the lowest possible cost. To achieve this basic objective, the Government sets the following
strategic objectives.
(i)    Security of Supplies:
to ensure that the supply does not rely heavily on one single country, region or
contract;
to ensure on state as well as local level, a reasonable amount of domestic energy
sources; and
to avoid unreasonable interruptions in the supply.
(ii)   Efficiency:
to increase competition in all forms and where viable in production through
competition wherever possible or through regulation based on efficient enterprises,
and in the use through conservation and other measures.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 10
(iii)   Financing investments to attract capital:
(a) in the immediate future in the form of loans from international institutions with
Government guarantees, and through third party financing schemes: and
(b) in the medium and long term, local and foreign, after establishing clear and
stable rules of the game, also in any of the following forms:
loans, preferably without the Government guarantee;
bonds, preferably convertible to shares; and
equity, partial or total.
(iv)   Environmental Protection:
in the construction of new installations, by ensuring that safeguards have been
included and required permits obtained before they are commissioned, and that anti-
pollution equipment is installed, as required to adequately meet current standard;
in the development of fuel resources, by ensuring that adequate care to the
environment is taken, and that current legislation is followed; and
in the quality control of imported fuels.
Government roles
The roles of the Government which are inherent to its functions such as those of policy and
strategy making, regulation and supervision will be separated from its subsidiary roles such as
ownership and management of enterprises (which may be transferred to other institutions and the
private sector).
Policy on Ownership
(i)    Encourage private participation in production facilities for electricity and heat, and in
the fuel sector (petroleum products as well as domestic fuels);
(ii)    Retain state control in oil shale mining and electricity production (for the time being)
and in transmission grids;
(iii)   Encourage municipal ownership in district heating operations and in the future
consider municipal ownership in local distribution of electricity and gas and encourage
private participation in new heat production facilities; and
(iv)   In the areas where the Government still exerts its subsidiary role, particularly in
enterprise ownership and management, the intention under the present policy is to
increase the participation of the private sector wherever possible. In the case of the
energy sector, the private sector should have an increasing participation in the new
production projects, and could also participate in the distribution of energy either
through any form of service contract or through full ownership of the system.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 10
Policy on Prices
(i)    Avoid direct payment subsidies to energy sector, allow prices to reflect actual costs
and allow energy enterprises to operate on commercial conditions.
Policy on Financing
(i)    Attract capital for rehabilitation of energy facilities from international financing
institutions with state guarantees until enterprises are able to finance investments
through the normal financial market;
(ii)    The Government will also seek any other form of participation of private capital such
as joint ventures, bonds, equity participation and trading arrangements.
(iii)   The Government will continue financing energy conservation programs from the state
budget.
Policy on Regulation
(i)    Introduce regulation as necessary in order to protect customers by ensuring the
fairness of the pricing system and to apply desirable technical and safety standards;
(ii)    The principle should be to regulate as little as possible and, when exerted, under an
arms length approach. Wherever competition is viable, prices will be set by market
forces. Regulation of prices will apply only in those areas where natural monopolies
exist;
(iii)   The Government will, as needed, establish a modern system supervising the adequate
enforcing of the regulatory law. The regulatory system should be insulated from the
day-to-day politics in order to ensure the stability and continuity of policy
implementation. While promoting the participation of the private sector, the
Government should regulate any monopolistic situation which may develop and which
may impair the proper play of market forces; and
(iv)   The Government will ensure that the regulatory system of the sector is fully
transparent by establishing an open and comprehensive information system which will
include, but will not be limited to, the following purposes: (a) to let consumers know
in detail the process for setting tariffs: (b) to let investors know sector statistics which
will make his decision better informed: (c) let the regulatory entities know the basic
data for tariff setting and to follow up the corresponding results: and (d) let the
Government know the implementation of its policy and strategy, and the corrections
the may be needed.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 10
Policy on Fuel Resources
(i)    The indigenous fuel resources of Estonia (oil shale, shale oil, peat and wood) should
be used to the extent that is technically possible and economically advantageous, but
with proper regard to the environment.
Policy on Taxes
(i)    Taxes (on, for example, gasoline and heavy fuel oil) shall be considered to provide
correct signals to consumers, but introduced as to reflect the payment capability. In
future, taxes shall be used as a regulatory mechanism of energy system; and
(ii)   Consider harmonization with, for example, EU requirements on environmental taxes.
Policy on Environment
(i)    Focus on improved combustion efficiency, control equipment and monitoring of
emissions for plants fired with low grade fuels (oil shale, mazut heavy fuel oil, coal).
Determine which areas will give maximum return on investments; and
(ii)   Further development of domestic fuels (peat and wood chips) for heating purposes
should be done with due consideration to environmental protection.
Policy on Regional Cooperation
(i)    Promote actively the economic export of electricity to neighboring countries and the
development of necessary infrastructure;
(ii)   Promote open trading agreements for gas and electricity, based on GATT rules and
international agreements;
(iii)   Participate in European Energy Charter work;
(iv)   Develop jointly with neighboring countries facilities to obtain increased supply
security in the most economical way, e.g. central gas storage, oil terminals; and
(v)    Promote actively the cooperation with Latvia and Lithuania in the energy sector, e.g.
harmonization of policies.
Policy on Open Access Schemes
For the foreseeable future, electricity generation and transmission will be under state
monopoly and wholesale prices regulated by Government. When economic progress makes it feasible
to invest in new electric generating capacity with possible private participation, an open access
scheme may be desirable. Current development in neighboring countries (Norway, Sweden and
Finland) should give a better basis for deciding on and implementing such a scheme.



ANNEX-1
Page 9 of 10
For the natural gas sector, an open access scheme with proper regulation may be desirable if
private ownership increases above 50%.
For the district heating sector, the distribution and final sale of heat is assumed to remain a
municipal monopoly, with prices regulated by the municipality.
Strategy
The Government realizes that in order to achieve the goals of its policy will take time and it
has set the following priorities under its strategy for the sector:
Technical and Economic Strategy
(i)    To encourage energy conservation and the efficient use of energy through cost
effective measures;
(ii)    To improve the diversity of energy supplies through exploitation of indigenous
resources;
(iii)   To improve the efficiency and reliability of existing supply systems through
rehabilitation; and
(iv)   To invest in new plants.
Organizational Strategy
The roles of the Government in the energy sector will be clearly assigned to specific
organizational units which will be accountable for their functions through performance results:
(i)    The Ministry of Economy will be responsible for the sector policy and strategy, while
separate regulatory entities (some of which are yet to be defined) will be responsible
for regulation and supervision of sector activities;
(ii)    The ownership of state enterprises will be in the hands of the Ministry of Economy,
while their management will be direct responsibility of each enterprise;
(iii)   Following the principles set under the Law on Local Government Agreement, the
Government will transfer some of its roles, both inherent and subsidiary, to the
municipal governments. In the case of the energy sector, we see a greater
participation of the municipalities in the areas of district heating, and in the future in
electricity and gas distribution; and
(iv)   The State Energy Department will be responsible for implementing the Governments
energy sector policy as assigned by the Ministry in such areas as energy efficiency
programs, municipal energy planning, government initiated investment programs and
other duties as assigned to it under its current statute.



ANNEX 1
Page 10 of 10
Plan of Action
The Government plans to implement its sector policy and strategy according to the following
plan of action. The outline of the plan of action is shown in the following paragraphs.
It should be noted, however, that in many cases these type actions on the enterprise side are
already anticipated; for example, privatization of LPG distribution companies which belonged to Eesti
Gaas.
1.    Energy Policy
The Government after consultation with relevant parties formally issues its Statement
of Energy Policy and Strategy.
2.    Municipal Energy Planning
Each munipicality will be encouraged to prepare a heating plan, which may include
mapping of resources, reduction plans for imported fuels, emergency planning,
rehabilitation, service areas and investment plans for its energy utilities.
Each municipal district heating utility will be encouraged to prepare their individual
restructuring plans in line with the new sector policy and strategy.
3.    Energy Legislation
The Ministry of Economy, with advisory assistance prepares draft energy legislation
4.    State Enterprises
Each energy enterprise prepares their individual restructuring plans in line with the
new sector policy and strategy.
5.    Regulation
The Government approves new sector legislation and organizes regulatory entities
which prepare, with the assistance of consultants, necessary sector regulations.
6.    Enterprises
The Government and the Municipalities complete all the steps necessary to ensure the
individual legal status of all enterprises resulting from the restructuring process.
7.    Regulation
The regulatory entities approves tariffs on the basis of cost recovery.



ANNEX 2
Page I of 3
ESTONLA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Criteria for Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program
Strategy and Organization
1.    Organization of Work and Time Schedule
1.1          County and town (excluding Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu) energy managers during
September/October 1993 preselected locations for boiler conversions or replacements in cooperation
with municipal authorities responsible for district heating. They focussed on selection of municipal-
owned boilerhouses, not private boilerhouses.
1.2          Project proposals were delivered by mid-October and were required to be in
compliance with the following criteria and conditions established by the Estonian State Energy
Department and in accordance with the required information in the application forms.
1.3          Preselection and preappraisal of a number of project was completed during November
1993. Local consultants are now further evaluating the feasibility of each individual project. Further
consultancy assistance, to be financed from bilateral sources, is expected to support the
implementation phase of the program.
2.    Criteria for Preselection of Boilerhouses
2.1          The program will be divided into two components: (a) boiler conversions and (b)
boiler replacements. It is intended to standardize the conversion/new boiler projects in equal and
similar sizes concerning capacity, fuel type etc. This will enable the tendering process to be carried
out in two packages according to the above division, with the expectation of gaining the lowest prices.
The program amounts to about US$ 10 million.
Conversion of Existing Boilers
2.2          Section one will comprise preselected boilers to be converted by reconstructing
existing boilers by installing preovens or new grates for solid fuel in the furnace. The project will
also include equipment needed for storing and handling the fuel; automatic fuel feeding system;
equipment for automatic control and regulation of the combustion; fluegas cleaning; ash handling and
removal system.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
2.3          Main criteria for selection. The type of boilers proposed for conversion should be
according to the following (isted in prioritized order) which have been shown to be technically
capable of being converted:
1.    DKVR 10; DKVR 6.5; DKVR 4, DE is considered risky
2.    Kivioli 80
3.    E 1/9
4.    Others T4.5
Proposals for Replacement of Boilers
2.4          Section two will comprise preselected boilerhouses proposed to be installed with a
new boiler. The projects will include storing and handling facilities for the fuel; automatic fuel
feeding system; new solid fuel boiler for wood or peat; equipment for automatic control and
regulation of the combustion; fluegas cleaning; ash handling and removal system.
2.5          Main criteria for selection. The key considerations in selecting boilers for
replacement are as follows:
1.    Boiler size ranging from about 0.5 - 3.0 MW
2.    Existing boiler is technically and economically depreciated
3.    Remaining lifetime estimated less than five years
4.    New boiler should not cover more than 60% of total required production capacity
5.    Boiler must operate at least 4,500 full-load hours/year
6.    Existing boiler's capacity too high compared to heat demand to justify conversion
7.    Well-educated and committed boiler staff
8.    If the water treatment system and other items in the boiler house are not in good
working condition, other related equipment requirements should be identified
9.    Building and site in normal maintained condition
10.   Wood chipper equipment would be considered where needed.
2.6           Generalcondjitns. Besides the above-mentioned special criteria for conversions and
new boilers, respectively, the following conditions should be applied for all project proposals:
1.    Availability of stable woodchip or peat supplies e.g. by conditioned amreements with
local wood chip suppliers or peat producers on required deliveries
2.    Proposals must be approved by municipal authority
3.    Application Form
3.1          The proposals for the preselected locations/boilerhouses must be presented in
accordance with the conditions set out by the State Energy Department using the application form
prescribed.
3.2          The deadline for sending the first proposals was October 22, 1993, and later incoming
proposals will not be taken into consideration unless the number of timely received proposals are
inadequate.



ANNEX-2
Page 3 gf 
4.    Evaluation of Proposals
4.1          Evaluation of proposals will be made by Estonian State Energy Department. The
evaluation will be divided in a technical and an economic part.
4.2          The technical evaluation will be based on the criteria set out above and on the
information received through the application form.
4.3          The economic evaluation will be based on among the following criteria:
Conversion projects:
1.    Simple payback period (DPP); maximum 7 years
2.    Net present value (NPV); assuming a 10% discount factor over 20 years
3.    Economic calculation indicating minimum 10% decrease in present cost of heat
production (EEK/Mwh)
4.    Economic ROR > 10% (NPV/Cost)
New Boilers:
1.    Simple payback period (DPP): maximum 12 years
2.    Net Present value (NPV): assuming a 10% discount factor over 20 years
3.    Economical calculation indicating minimum 10% decrease in present cost of heat
production
4.    Economic ROR > 10%
On the above basis State Energy Departnent will choose the best proposals, which will be
presented and recommended to the World Bank.
5.    Further Proceedings and Imnlementation
5.1          The best proposals will be investigated more thoroughly by carrying out detailed
feasibility-studies. For projects chosen for financing, technical specifications will be prepared the
Estonian State Energy Department with the assistance of an experienced consultant. The technical
specifications will form the basis for the documents to be prepared for the international tendering
procedure.
The above actions will take place during Winter/Spring 1993/94 and the implementation of
the appraised projects is expected to take place Summer/Autumn 1994.



ANNE 3
Page 1 of 10
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tallinn. Tartu and Parno DH Rehabilitation Components
1.1          The proposed project consists of rehabilitation components of the district heating (DH)
systems in three cities (Parnu, Tartu and Tallinn). The components are designed to enhance network
life, improve system operation, produce savings in the use of fuels, and improve environmental
performance. A description of the components is presented below:
A. Tartu
2.1          The Tartu component includes the following major components: (a) conversion of five
oil and gas fired boilers to domestic fuels (milled peat, sod peat and wood fuels); (b) replacement of
selected sections of the heating network; (c) Installation of 640 substations including meters and
regulators; (d) improvement of the water treatment system; and (e) a technical assistance component
for design of substations, supervision of installation of equipment and for overall project monitoring.
3.1          The boiler conversions will take place in the Luunja and the Ropka boilerhouses.
Boiler conversions are justified for a number of reasons: (a) the cost of operation will be reduced
compared to imported fossil fuels; (b) new jobs are created; and (c) the emissions of SOx and C02
from the boilerhouses will be reduced.
4.1          Luunia boiler house. The Luunja hot water boilers, which are of PTVM-30 type,
were erected and almost completed during 1987, but have never been taken into operation. The
boilers are supported by steel pillars, and their pressure vessel consists of the walls of the combustion
chamber and of the vertical rear back pass with screen tubes in between. The walls are not of the gas
tight membrane type. There are two convective surfaces in the back pass to cool the flue gases
before passing through the fan and chimney. The design pressure of the boilers is 25 bar. Important
dimensions of the boiler conversion are the plan area of the combustion chamber, W*D = 4.16*2.24
m, and its volume 77 m3.
4.2          Fuels for conversion. The fuels to be fired are milled and sod peat and wood chips,
including mixtures of these. As milled peat is not an easy fuel to burn, special consideration was
given to the chosen combustion technology.
4.3          Combustion system. The original boiler capacity is expected to be derated to about
50%, i.e., to 16 MW for each boiler after conversion. One possible type of combustion system is
fluidized bed, which is flexible concerning fuel qualities.
4.4          Main auxiliary systems. Beside the combustion system, the main auxiliary systems
for the fuel conversion of the boilers include:



ANNEXE3
Page 2 of 10
(a)    Fuel handling system: To handle the indigenous fuels, a system will be
installed comprising fuel reception and storage designed for unloading vehicles
of about 100 m3 from the side and 25 m3 from the rear. The storage will
contain fuel for at least 48 hours of operation or 3,000 m3. The storage can
be placed between the road and the boiler house or at the other side of the
road. A rejection system to remove wood stumps, roots, stones, metallic
pieces etc. from the fuel before it is transported to the boiler fuel bin will be
put in place. Disturbances of the conveying system or combustion is then
avoided. A conveying system of covered type from the storage facility to the
boiler fuel bin (including one fuel bin for each boiler for enough fuel for
about 2 hours of operation) will be equipped with explosion doors to avoid
damage if explosions occur and will be placed either partly outside or wholly
outside the building. A fuel feeding system for each boiler will be provided
to feed fuel from the bin to the furnace. An air lock and an emergency shut
off valve will be installed in the system. One man will be available 24 hours
a day to operate and maintain the system.
(b)    Ash removal and cooling system for ash from combustion chamber: The'
system will be air tight and of automatic type and will transport the ash
outside the boiler house to ash containers. In general, a design with ash
collecting gas passes will be avoided and arrangements for ash removal will
be included, if needed. Electrostatic precipitators with two or more sections
will be installed including a fly ash removal system. The precipitators will be
insulated and the hoppers heated through electricity, if needed.
4.5          Other improvements. In addition to the systems needed to complete the conversion,
the following equipment will be installed:
(a)    economizer, to cool the flue gases to about 100 degree C by district heating
water of at least 90 degrees C, achieved through a bypass arrangement. To
protect the economizer surface from corrosion when oil is fired, a flue gas
bypass will be installed.
(b)   heat exchangers, one for each boiler or one common, to separate the boiler
water system from the district heating system to protect it from corrosion.
(c)   system to keep the pressure before the pumps constant to about 4 bar g,
comprising a 200 m3 cistern, two pumps of 100 % capacity each and valves.
5.1          Ropka boiler house. The Ropka saturated steam boilers, which are of DKVR-20
type, were erected during 1976 and have been in operation since then. The boilers are standing on
the floor. Their pressure vessel consists of the walls of the combustion chamber with a screen tube
surface at the outlet and the horizontal gas pass through a bundle of vertical tubes between one lower
water drum and one upper steam drum. The walls are not of the gas tight membrane type. There is
one cast iron economizer with fin tubes in the flue gas pass to cool the flue gases before passing
through the fan and chimney. Design and operating pressures are 16 and 13 bar, respectively.



ANNEX-3
Page 3 of 10
Important dimensions at the boiler are the plan area of the combustion chamber, W*D = 2.73*4.91
m, and its volume, 52 m3.
5.2          Fuels for Conversion. The fuels to be fired are sod peat and wood chips, including
mixtures of these. A little part of milled peat, say 15% of the mixture at full load operation, is
expected to be acceptable for the combustion technology.
5.3          Combustion system. The combustion system for solid fuels for this boiler type is a
sloping grate. The original boiler capacity is expected to be derated to about 50%, i.e., to 7 MW for
each boiler after conversion.
5.4           New  2onomizer. The existing economizers are of a very compact type with finned
tubes and can stick together when the flue gases have a high dust content as when solid fuels are
fired. A new economizer must therefore be installed. The feedwater inlet temperature is 105 degrees
C. The economizer will have a soot cleaning system.
5.5           Main auxiliary systems. In addition to the combustion and economizer systems, the
main auxiliary systems for the fuel conversion of the boilers include:
(a)    Fuel handling system. To handle the indigenous fuels, a system will be
installed comprising fuel reception and storage designed for unloading vehicles
of about 25 m3 from the rear. The storage will contain fuel for at least 48
hours of operation or 1,200 m3. The storage can be placed near the stackl
behind the boiler house. A rejection system to remove wood stumps, roots,
stones, metallic pieces, etc. from the fuel before it is transported to the boiler
fuel bin will be put in place. Disturbances of the conveying system or
combustion is then avoided. A conveying system of covered type from the
storage to the boiler fuel bin (including one fuel bin for each boiler for at least
1 hour of operation) will be placed outside the building. The bins will be
weather sheltered and equipped with mechanical bottoms for automatic filling
up of the feeding system. A fuel feeding system for each boiler will be
provided to feed fuel from the bin to the furnace. An air lock and an
emergency shut off valve will be installed in the system. The milled peat part
of the fuel mixture must be limited in a safe way during all possible operation
situations to assure the necessary protection from overheating of the
combustion system. One man will be available 24 hours a day to operate and
maintain the system.
(b)    Ash removal and cooling system for ash from combustion chamber. The
system will be air tight and of automatic type and transport the ash outside the
boiler house to ash containers. In general, a design with ash collecting gas
passes will be avoided, and arrangements for ash removal will be included, if
needed. Multi-cyclone precipitators will be installed including a fly ash
removal system. The precipitators will be insulated and the hoppers heated
with electricity, if needed.



ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 10
5.6          Other improvements. In addition to systems needed to complete the conversion, a
system to keep the pressure before the district heating pumps constant at about 4 bar will be installed
and will comprise a 40 m3 cistern, two pumps of 100% capacity each and valves.
6.1          Substations. In Tartu, three different types of substations which will be equipped with
new components. The direct connection from the district heating system to domestic hot water (hot
domestic water is the same water as district heating water) will be changed under an EBRD-financed
project. After the changes, domestic hot water will be produced through heat exchangers. The
heating system of buildings is directly connected to the district heating system and will also remain
directly connected. The heating system will be equipped with proper control and safety equipment.
Each building will be equipped with a heat meter.
6.2          Design temperatures for substations are as follows:
District heating supply temperature    120 C
District heating return temperature  65 OC
Secondary heating supply temperature  80 C
Secondary heating return temperature   60 ^C
Domestic cold water                 5 C
Domestic hot water                 55 *C
6.3          The three principle types of substations are described below:
(a)    Type A: Substations for buildings which have no domestic hot water will be
equipped with new pump and shunt group for heating system including a
pressure difference regulator and balancing valves for the secondary heating
pipelines.
(b)    Type B: Substations which have domestic hot water heat exchangers will be
equipped with similar devices for the heating system as described for type A
substations.
(c)    Type C: Similar substations as type B but for which there is no need for
pressure difference regulator.
6.4          Substations can be divided by type and size as shown in the following table:
Size  [kW]    30    60   100   140   280   320   560   920  1400  2400  4000  5000
Type  A        17      6     14    11    40       7    14      5      0     0      0      0
Type B          7      3    10    23    40    13    34    11          8      1     2      2
Type C         96    18    41    48    80         9    39    15       7    11      6      2
= ===--==--==-=-=



ANNEX3
Page 5 of 10
6.5           A typical substation includes the foflowing components to the primary side: heat meter,
control valve and controller for the supply temporature of heating system (according to the ambient
temperature), stainer, shut off valves, drain and air release valves, pressure difference regulator, thermometers
and pressure gauge kit. To the secondary side, the needed components are circulating pump, strainer, shut off
valves, drain valve, check valve, main balancing valve, balancing valves and pressre gauge lit.
7.1           District heating gigelines. Replacement of district heating pipelines which are in bad condition
will take place in the areas where the ground water level is high and the concrete duct type is not reasonable to
use. Most of the renovated pipelines will be of preinsulated type. The design parumeters for the pipelines will
be 120 C and 16 bar. All insulation material will be of non CFC-type. The total length of straight pipes is
about 7,800 meters. The preliminary designed dimensions and pipe lengths, number of bends, T-fittings, ball
valves air release and drain arrangements and shrink sleeve and insulation kits (joints) are shown in the
following table:
Size       DN       500    400    300    250   200 1750  125         100     90    65    50       32
Length    [ml       600   1560      0   2720   480    160  720       500     70   300   520    200
Bends      [pcs]      6     16      0     14    18      6   22        14      10    18    24      10
Air/drain  [pcs]      0      0      0      0     0      0    0        10     10      4      4     10
T-fittings  [pcs]     4      4      0     18    16      0    8        12      8      0      -      -
Valves     [pcs]      0      0      0      4     2      2    2         2      2      2      2      2
Joints     [pcsJ     56    130      0    230    74    20    88        74      12    60    100     46
The needed amounts of different pipe components will be specified during detailed design.
8.1           Water treatrt. All boiler plants will be equipped with by-pass filters to clean the district
heating water from particles. Each unit will be comprised of catridge filter, pump, pipes and valves. The
filters in Luunja and Turu plant will be designed for the capacity of 20 m3/h and filters for Ropka, Aardla,
Tulbi and Tuglase plants will be designed for the capacity of 10 ml/h. For each plant, a dosing system of
NaOH will be installed including tank, pump, pipes and valves.
8.2           Q2fanalzers. Two transportable 02 analyzers will be included for adjusting the burners and
fuel/air-ratio to proper level.
9.1           Spar prt. A common storage of spare parts for all heating plant and a repair and service
work shop for mechanical, electrical and control and rogulating equipment as well as heat meters will be
established in Tartu.
B. Paun
10.1          The Parnu DH rehabilitation component includes two boiler conversions from heavy fuel oil to
peat and wood fuels. After evaluation of several alternatives, the boiler conversion component would include
conversion of two old (15 years) DKVR oil-fired boilers to peat and wood chips as the main fuels. The



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 10
rehabilitation program will aim at the following objectives: (a) to reduce the cost of operation as compared to
fosil fuels; (b) to creat new jobs; and (c) to reduce the emissions of SO. and CO2 from the boilerhouses.
10.2          Cost reduction will be achieved by the following measures: (a) water leakage will be reduced
by repairing or replacing corroded pipelines; (b) corrosion of pipelines will be reduced by improving ventilation
and daina  of ducts and by insang improved water treatment equipment; (c) energy consumption will be
reduced by insallation of new substations with outdoor temperature regulators; and (d) fuel costs will be
reduced by convesions and boiler regulation improvements.
11.1                            Thnu boiler  . 'Me Pirnu saturaed steam boilers, which are of DKVR-20 type, were
takn into opeation during 1980 and have been in operation since then. An evaluation made by Tallinn
Technical University dated October 29, 1993, concluded that the metal condition of the boiler is relatively good.
TM  boies are tandig on the floor. Their pressure vessel consists of vertical walltubes of the combustion
chambr with a scrm tube surface at the outlet and a bundle of vertical tubes in a horizontal gas pass betweon
one lower war drum and one upper steam drum. The walls are not of the gas tight membrane type with fins
in betwon. Water circulation in the boiler circuit is natural, i.e., without pumps. The boilers are designed for
an opeating presos  of 13 bar. Thore is one cast iron economizer with finned tubes in the flue gas pass to
cool the flue game before passing through the fan and further through the chimney. Important dimensions of
the boiler conveasion are the plan area of the combustion chamber, W*D = 2.73*4.91 m, and its volume,.
52 m3.
11.2           Fuels for converio. The fuels to be fired are sod peat and wood chips, including mixtures of
;;h.
11.3             usbThe combustion technology is for solid fuels for this boiler type in a
sloping grte. The original boiler capacity is expected to be derated to about 70%, i.e., to 8-10 MW for each
boiler after conversion.
11.4          Now economizos. The existing economizors are of a very compact type with finned tubes and
can stick together when the flue gases have a high dust content as when solid fuels are fired. A new
economizwr must therefore be installed. Tbe feedwater inlet temperature is 102 degrees C. The economizer
will have a sysAtm for soot cleaning including automatic ash removal.
1 1.S         Main auxilia systems. In addition to the combustion and economizer systems, the main
auxiliary systems for the fuel conversion of the boilers include:
(a)    Fuel handline system: To handle the indigenous fuels, a system will be installed
comprising fuel reception and storage designed for unloading sidetipped lorries, with
possibilities to tip the fuel outside the storage. Tractors will also be used for the fuel
transportation to the storage. The storage will be fully mechanized and automated.
Fuel storago for at lest 60 hours of operation or about 2,000 m3 is needed, and fuel
trnsportaton to the plant will take place during the daytime. Available area for the
storage is between existing buildings and masts, which means roughly 60 m from the
plant. The distance to an existing oil storage must be a minimum 30 m. A rejection
system to remove wood stumps, roots, stones, metallic pieces, etc., from the fuel
before it s transported to the boiler fuel bin will be put in place. Disturbances of the
convoying system or combustion is then avoided. A conveying system, partly placed
outside the boilerhouse roof, from the storage to the boiler fuel bins (including one
fuel bin for each boiler for at least 1 hour of operation) will be placed inside the
building. The bins will be equipped with automatic controls. A fuel feeding system
for each boiler will be provided to feed fuel from the bin to the furnace. The



ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 10
equipment wil be designed to avoid backfire in the fuel bins and flue Vsa from
coming into the boiler houw.
(b)    Ash r_oal sstem for ash fiom comb on           : The system will be of
automatic type and will trnt the sh outside the boiler house to ash contaer.
In general, a design with ah collcting gas posse. wil be avoided end arrangements
for ash rmoval will be included, if needed. Tho gas passes betwen drms as wel U
the installation of an economizer was considered.
(c)    Flue gms cloaninf systems: These will be either multi-cyclone or electric procipitator
including a fly ash removal system. The precipitators will be insulated.
12.1           O.br hvomeos  In addition to systgem  needed to complete the conversion, a pkae of
equipment will be proposed for later evaluation during detailed design. Some of the possible items are:
(a) new afety valves; (b) now water level indicators for the steam dnms; (c) now control valve to keep the
boiler feed water tank under constant pressure; (d) now feed water pumps for the boilers; (6) new make up
water pumps; and (f) heat exchager system between boilrs and the distict heating network. The press, on
the DHside should be controlled, especially the undercooling paut of it, before design of new district heating
pumps.
13.1           Substations. In Panu, thre different types of substations which wil be equipped with now
compononts and with proper control and safety equipment. Each will be equipped with a heat meter.
13.2           Design tmpertus for substations are as foUlows:
District heating supply temperture 120 OC
District heating return tmature  65 eC
Seondry hoating supply temprature 80 OC
Seowndy heating retun temperature 60 eC
Domestic cold water           5 QC
Domstic hot water            55 °C
13.3          The throe principle types of substations are described below:
(a)    Type A: Mixing stations for space heating with pump connection. Domestic hot
water is heated by heat exchanger.
(b)    Type B: Injector pump connection to the space heating system and heat exchanger
connection to hot domestic water system.
(c)    Type C: Direct connection to space heating system (no mixing with no temperature
reduction) and heat exchanger connection to hot domestic water system.
13.4           Substations cannot be divided by type and size as for Tartu, but similar tables will be prepared
by the condltant when preparing bidding documents.
13.5           A typical substation includes the following components to the prmry side: heat meter,
control valve and controller for the supply tempeture of heating system (according the ambient tmperatr),
filter, shut off valvs, drain and air releas valvs, pressure difference regulator, thrmometers and pressure
gauge ldt. To the secondary side, the needed components are circulating pump, filter, shut off valves, drain



ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 10
valve, check valve and circulation pumps for hot domestic water for those cases when the pumps are missing or
are in bad condition.
14.1          District heating ginelines. New thermal insulation of aerial pipelines will be provided. After
pressure testing next summer, replacement a small number of pipelines in bad condition will be done. The
design parameters for the pipelines will be 120 °C and 16 bar. All insulation material will be of non CFC-type.
Ball valves, included in the project, are shown in the following table:
Size       DN       500    400I 300   25    2001             150125|   100|   80i   65n    50      32 l
Valves     [Pcsl      0      0      2      2      2     14    6       24      72      4     46      0
14.2          District heating numvs and control system. At Parnu boiler plant, new district heating pumps
are needed since the existing ones are in bad condition and unreliable. There will be two new pumps with the
design values of flow rate 600 m3/h and head of the pump 8,5 bar. The final values will be decided between the
client and the consultant after the consultant has revised the preliminary design.
14.3          The pumps will be equipped with a control system so that the plant can operate at variable
flow mode after the substations are renovated and also in parallel in the interconnected network with the Tervis
plant. An alternative of controlling the flow in the beginning with throttling valve and later on with frequency
converters was selected instead of the rather expensive alternative of frequency converters installed in the
beginning of the project. The consultant will prepare a simple feasibility calculation of this item.
14.4          The Tervis boiler plant also needs two new district heating pumps. A similar feasibility study
will be prepared concerning frequency converters in Tervis. The preliminary design values for district heating
pumps at Tervis plant are: flow rate 210 m3/h, head of the pumps 6 bar.
15.1          Water treatment. The boiler plants Parnu and Tervis will be operated in the same
interconnected network and the make-up water will be prepared at Parnu plant. The new equipment for filtering
the circulating water will consist of two full flow filters to both boiler plants. The full flow filters at Parnu will
be designed for the flow 1,000 m3/h and at Tervis 300 m3/h. To reduce the amount of small solid particles and
the iron content in the circulating water, a by-pass filter will be installed to both of the boiler plants. The
design values (5 % of the flow) for the by-pass filters are 50 m3/h in Pamu and 15 m3/h in Tervis. Each unit is
comprised of cartridge filter, pump, pipes and valves. For the Parnu plant, a dosing system of NaOH will be
installed to take care of proper pH-value in the network.
15.2          A new dearation control for the make-up water to the district heating system is needed to
ensure a proper temperature level in the dearator. The equipment needed are a new control valve and controller
of the steam flow to the dearator.
16.1          Office technolozv. Parnu project agency will have an office at Parnu boiler plant office
building, where one big room for that purpose has been renovated. For this office, the following office
technology is needed: 2 computers with software, plotter, printer, digitizer, fax and copy machines (normal and
transportable).
C. Tallinn
17.1          The Tallinn component will include similar improvements as for the other two towns,
excluding the conversion of boilers. The key improvements are as follows:



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 10
18.1          Boiler controls and 02-analyzers. The boiler control improvement of one Kadaka boiler (type
KVGM 100) will include fuel-air ratio control for existing burners and furnace draft control system. 02-
analyzers (in total, 18 pieces) will also be included for the heat-only-boilers at the following boiler plants:
Kadaka, Kaijam aa, Mustamae, Keslcinna and Ulemiste.
19.1          YWater reatment. The water treatment subcomponent includes by-pass cartridge filters and by-
bass softener for Kadaka, Koajamaa, Mustamae, Kesldinna and Ulemiste boiler plants. The preliminary design
flow values for the different by-pass filters are:
Plant          Capacity of by-pass filters
[kg/sI
Kadaka                65
Mustamae              60
Karjamaa              10
Ulemiste              55
Kesklinn              50
19.2          New equipment for make-up water treatment for district heating systems in interconnected
westem network (Kanaka, Kajamaa, Mustamae) will also be included. The make-up water treatment plant will
be installed at Mustamae plant and produce make-up water for the whole westem system. In the design
parameters, the estimated lower make-up water consumption in the future (smaller water losses) has been taken
into account.
19.3          Two alternative technologies which can be used for producing demineralized make-up water to
the DH-system have boen discussed. The two options are the membrane technology (reverse osmosis) and
traditional ion exchanger technology. The final decision of the technology will be taken shortly. In the cost
estimates, the investment cost is based on the more expensive ion exchanger technology which has lower
operation costs.
20.1           Rebuilding ubstati. Control imnrovements and heat meters for large substations. In
LAsnamae area (eastern network) there are 33 large substations with a capacity over 1 MW. These substations
will be equipped with new control equipment and heat meters. The substations can be divided by size as
follows:
Substation capacity                                          Number of substations
I...5    MW                                                           S
5... 10  MW                                                           7
10 ...20 MW                                                           18
20 ...30 MW                                                           1
30-40 MW                                                              1
40 ...50 MW                                                           1
TOTAL                                                                 33



ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 10
20.2           Substation imDrovements in Kadaka - Kariamasa - Mustamae area. Improvement of small
substations in the western network (Kadaka, Mustamae, Karjamaa) will include complete substations with heat
exchangers, controls, valves, filters and pumps. All substations will also be equipped with heat meters. The
small substations can be divided as follows:
Number of          Kadjamaa        Kadaka         Mustamae          6ismae          TOTAL
substations
< 300 kW              81             279             367              32             759
300-500 kW            40             52              107              0               199
500-800 kW            9              22               39              2               72
800-1000kW            0               1               4                1              6
> 1000 kW             0               9               5               1               15
TOTAL                 130            363             522              36             1051
20.3           The client's proposal to equip the substations with beat exchangers was accepted as the best
option because of the following reasons:
(a)    water losses will be remarkably reduced after the primary and secondary networks are
separated by heat exchangers;
(b)    pressure differences in the primary network will not disturb the inside networks in
buildings;
(c)    during pressure tests (every year), significant manual maintenance work can be saved
(no need to close valves at all substations);
(d)    there is the possibility to extend the system and increase the pressure level in the
network;
(e)    safety reasons; and
(f)    the DH system in Tallinn is much larger than in Tartu or Parnu.
21.1           Variable speed pumps and controls for Kadaka - Karjamaa - Mustamae as well as Kesklinn and
Ulemiste area. Variable speed pumps for all boiler plant supplying heat to the western network will be included
along with the needed additional measurements and controls for operation of these pumps and for monitoring.
New pumps will be installed to the following boiler plants Mustamae, Kadaka Kaijamaa, Tallinn City (Kesklinn)
and Ulemiste.
22.1           Overation and Maintenance Support. New tools and equipment were also identified for
supporting operation and maintenance of boiler plants as well as the networks. In this component is also
included equipment with which flow meters can be checked every second or third year. This equipment can
also be used to check the flow meters from Tartu and Parnu.



ANNEXA4
Page 1 of 2
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
IRU Power Plant Improvement Component
1.1          The key components for IRU Power Plant include repairs of an air preheater,
improvements to the water treatment system and automation improvements which are described
below:
2.1          Air preheaters. The air preheaters of the CHP units are in bad condition due to heavy
corrosion and are therefore leaking air into the flue gas stream which decreases the efficiency of the
boilers. They are also limiting the available capacity of the boilers. The air preheaters are located
outside the boiler house without proper cover against rain and snow. The improvements for one air
preheater are as follows:
(a)   installation of rain and snow shelter around the preheater using prefabricated
metal sheet modules with necessary thermal insulation;
(b)   renovation of sectoral sealing plates on the rotor;
(c)   renovation of radial and axial sealings; and
(d)   renovation of the thermal insulation.
3.1          Water Treatnent. The water treatment system at IRU CHP plant was designed during
the Soviet era. The system is operated manually. The operation and maintenance costs of the
existing system are high and the consumption of chemicals is also high. It is now impossible to
obtain spare parts for some of the equipment. The rehabilitation of the water treatment system at IRU
power plant will therefore consist of the following parts:
(a)   installation of storage and dosing system for solid and concentrated chemicals
used at the water treatmnent plant;
(b)   repairs of existing water treatment plant;
(c)   installation of water softening plant for preparing make-up water for the
district heating and by-pass filtration system for the district heating circulation
water; and
(d)   installation of chemical dosing system (NH3, N2HA and Na3PO4).
4.1          Automation Improvements. In general, the instrumentation and automation of the
plant needs renovation and modernization. The proposed investments are based on the estimation that
the hot water boilers are producing the major share of the heat demand and the CHP unit 2 is used
during the winter months. The proposed improvements of the automation of the plant are as follows:
(a)    Replacement of automation of the steam boiler no 2;
(b)    Replacement of automation of the hot water boiler no 1;
(c)    Replacement of automation of the hot water boiler no 2;
(d)    Replacement of automation of the hot water boiler no 3; and
(e)    Installation of new UPS-system and process equipment.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
5.1          Variable Speed Pumps. New main pumps for district heating water will be installed
in IRU Power Plant. The new pumps will have higher capacity than the existing pumps, and they
will also be equipped with variable speed drive. The pumps will be replaced in order to improve
dispatching in the system (IRU Power Plant can by means of the new pump deliver heat to the city
center, when production costs are lower in IRU than in Tallinn Central boiler). The variable speed
will initially be used to adjust pump capacity to exactly the requested constant flow, but will allow for
variable flow later on when new substations are installed.



DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
ESTONA ENER3Y PRtlECT
MUUARY Of PfAWXECT COSTS
NSD 000)
1994                         1996                        19906                         997                         lo6                      Totl Cost
(USM  000)                   (USDO000)                    (US  000)                   (USD000)                      USC'000)                   (U 000)
Local    Fotagn   Todal      Local    Foelgn   Tol       Lcl       Foreign   Total    Lool    Foreip   Totl       Locl      Foreign   Total    LOoa     Fore9gn   Total
TARTU                                                371     2,643     3,614     1.660    6,260     6,916      301     1,327    1,718       166      676     1.076      209       894     1,103    3,318   11,011    14,320
PAU                                                  492     1.432     1,924      486     1.371     1,6        266      444       700        66      426       492        0         0         0     1.311    3.674     4,066
TALLINN                                              60W    1.42       Z'431     1,901    0,66      8,4309    1.442    5,266    6,707       612    2,706     3.316      304      1,263    1,6"7    4,660    17.634    22,463
mU                                                   171     1,240     1,412      646    3,876      4,421        0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0      717     6,116     6,.33
SMALL SOLERCONVERSIOIPS                              324     1.202     1,616     1,12t    4,362     6,473     1,201    4.466    6,66          0        0         0        0         0         0     2,66    10,099    12746
IEPLACEMENT PAOGAA
NSTITftuONALSUWPORr                                    7     1,071     1.079      3'      t031      2,70         6      971       976         0        0         0        0         0         0       62    4,073    4,126
TOTALPROJECTCOST(USD 000)                          Z466      9,621    11,976     6,766    2',436    29,100   3,266    12,442    15.766      876    4,012    4.U87        613    2,177     2,660    12,894    61.60    04,600
4WCL TAXES AND DUTIES)                          ....... ....... .......U.......T....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... . . .... ....... .......)....... ....... .......



TALLINN DIXT1tCT HEATINIG                                         1I4                            195                           1966                           19W7                           19W6                      Total Om COO
(USD '000                     9US D l000                     (USD '0009                    IUSD '000MM                    (USD '00                       IUSD '000
Local     FoqaIF    Tota      LOOa       Fmlg    TOa         Lora         p       Total     LOOa      Foap    Tota         LOCl      Folgn   Tota        Loca       FoIn   TOl
kW*SL6aS CoW
abAnwDMHNawk(6tT-V Poaba                                 14        SS        71        63       346        426        42       173       214          0         0         0         0          0         a       130       576        715
soNC 4           __b.atn ap  ao                         27        163       10         1 2       70        52          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0        36       223        272
*4(ook-l4aConnucton                                       0         0         0       215       56        7S3       215       5         7            0         0         0         0          0         0       42o      1,136     1.566
Rob._"  IgL&W,a itb                                     16        3        Ill        54       260       334         54       260       334         36       157       23          I         93       III       176       934      1.114
Robo- _g6.A6Sa*atalca                                   142      673      1,015       426      2.620     3,045       426     2,620      3,045      264      1.746     2,030       142       6n       1,015     1,419      6,732    10,151
Vwrtb apadPiI                                             0         0         0        47       326        372        47       32        372         23       163       116          0         0         0       116       814        930
RAaCo.41o1                                                0         0         0        13       146       161          0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0        13       146        lei
WmI _T                                                 104        203       3W        311       607        616       104       203       306          0         0         0         0          0         0       51       1,013    1.531
opa, |and MakswanasB         d                           60       in        216       1$        3S3        1lo         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0       11l       550        726
D_.lp sul 6wmvbtn                                       24         77       101        65       304       366         *5      2S         36          46       140       167        23         70        93       274        7m      1.146
Pr*StO4lhalT       _taolaw                              S7          a        67         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0        67         0         67
mbat_aws, COoA fir.tIams                                46       I.S33     2.066      1.372     5,661     7.033       671      4,452     5,424       m        22236     226         13      1037      1.330      3.361    1l5020    16,401
Pk/SW     C Ub. ala                                       47       163       210       137       sss        703        67       445       542        31        224       263         16       104       122       33       1,502    1640
P          _lan   a, aS                                   77        45       122      312        311        704       374       367        741       164       246       430       lo        143       246      1,130     1,112     2.342
SBTOTLPOECTCO rTFORTTLINN                                560     1.42      2,431      1.101     6.536      ,436     1.442      s.2a5     6.707       612     2.706      3.318       304     1,283      1.S7      4,60    17.634    22413
NW- CHPLANT                                                       1064                         1tn                             lo"                            1t67                           11                        TOWaacSctd
/USD 0ooo                     (USC '000                      (USD '009                      (USD '009                      (UD '0009                     (USD '000
LOOM      Fmai     TOl        Loca         p       T1        LocaI     Foen    T   e        Lcl OW    F p    Totl          Local     FoP    Totl         Local      ForIgn   Totel
1h~u6 Ce_                    
AirP,hltaaa                                             37        320       357         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0        37        320       357
A_oaoWAaM      ab__ am                                  62        530       962        a        540       o6s          0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0       126      1.070     1.166
VNlb Spad P                                               0         0         0       190      1.365     1,55          0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0       190      1,305     1,555
WaIarTraae                                              1i        170       lo        107      1.260     1.367         0         0          0         0         0          0         0         0         0       125      1.450     15m
6oaqvblalo                                               to        so        6         30       140        170         0         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0        45        220       26
_b*olaa.Co_D  IohL  a9                                   136     1.100     1,231       364      3.665     3,740         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         6       92       4.463     4.94
PoWlo   C. tacl                                           14       110       124        3        SM         375         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0         53       446       466
Pdr Con _laoa                                             22        30        53       113        166       267         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0        135       215       350
SUBTOTALPRJECTCO0T FORRU                                 171     1.240     1,412       546      3,875     4,421         0          0         0         0         0          0         0         0         0        717     5.115    5sa33
SMALL 6OLR  COWdERIIONS                                          1I84                            IN5                            1966                          107                            166                        Total BlameComt
(USD 0309                     (USC '030                      9USD '009                      (USO '0009                    (UD '0009                      (USD 0009
Loca      Foreli    Tdol      Local      foe1 Tot            LOa       Foag    TOt          Local     Frao      TOtl       Local     F _rap    TOWl       LOcal     Forei     Total
COO
SoIC19 17                                                          46     1,143       304      1,S0     22           304      IM2       2.26          0         0          0         0         0          0       964     4,731      5.715
sbrR _uA0                                                           0         0       356      1,675     X031        3655     1.67      2,0n1         0         0          0         0         0         0        712     3,350      4,063
n   ap m          d.rloa                                 5       200       256         s        200       266       5s o       M  20       6         0         0          0         0         0         0        17         m00      m
SU.    smaComm (b*. ua                                   256     1,146     1.402       an       3.7as     4,577        m       3766      4,577         0         0          0         0         0          0     1,674     6.3       10,555
P1 al C          _a                                       26       iiI       140         S1       277       456        In        377       46          0         0          0         0         0          0       167        m       1.056
PrimCoris                                                 42        32        74        231       207       436       311        311       an          0         0          0         0         0          0       565       550      1,135
5*TOTAL-PROJECT COST FOR SMALL                           324     1,202      1,616     1.121     4.362     5.473      1201      4,W45     5.s           0          0         0         0          0         0     2.645 1 10.6    12.745
SOLER COW4!RSONS
TOTALPROJCTCOTrUSD '0009                               2,446     8.440    10.67       5,716    21,404    27.120      3,200    11,491    14,71        675      4,012     4,A17       513    2t177       2        12,642    47.533    60,375
Iao l



ESfTOffA
DOTR4 CT 16TI0  114AI&TATION4 PROJECt
DOalb  Cod bodhs
(UIO M
TAMU ODIVCT HEATIS                                              1004                            t_                                         166             137                                                     TOW  "s.  oost
(USW la"                      (UC la"                       (MUS  flOm                    (UD 'Og                       (USC UDOg                     (USg   ClOg
LOd       SOWn    TOW         Lloo      Psw       TOW       L_ls      Foln   TOW          Legal     for_    Troo        Los       Po.4      TOlW      LoM       Fsn   Total
Commli 
LAM_      C_       _b                                  no      1.2J1     1.3'        767     SOff      3.04          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0     1.07      4.3,3    3.430
1_s,1&2Calonia                                         6        4W         7         27       12         163         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       125       615       740
Reho,2me     Cow                                        a         0         0        22        O0        11         45       217       200                   0         0         0         0         0        a        30771r
COinbW.Noe -TWUt0                                                 0          0       143      30         go         3         so 1O     2          0         0         0         0         0         0       176       460       m
kIu C _m-         1owsIu04                             22        44        67         0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        22        44        67
RamDaldb4  N olma k                       *2                    170       o           1       2? 7      30          71       237       so3        71       2n7       3          n        237       30        346     1,110     1.40
R1      _ _mu    m                                      0         0         0        46       444       460         46       444       450        46       444       40         46       444       460       164     1.776     1.661
Wood-CaP_                                               1       ¶00        101        0         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         I       100       101
wg6gT1',mg4                                            44        37        el          0        a          0         0         0         6         o         0         0         0         0         0        44        37        SI
_mPam                                                  44        11u      105        44        e         106        44        5        lO          0         0         0        0          0         0       132       176       310
Damagemm          _                                    44       146       1>2        70        07        27         22        74        *4         *        44        2          *        41        44 15              5115
Po jO4_Tod.Wh                                          44         0        44         0         0         0          0         0         0         O         0         0        0          0         0        44         0        44
40bb1 smosC,O_b (_o.                                   3a       2,344     3O3       1.11      4911  4.,72           26      I   1,12 2  30        In        726                 13,6      723       g4   722 3      2,47       11M
PigOwiS         "                                       a0       264                 O116      30         Fos        2        112       1n         13        73        10        1 3       12        a                  56  1nI.ID
Pik Cu _mmlS                                           114        44       175        s0       251       111        101        03       194        of        50       I3n       7n         s        170       *56               1 272
STOTALPJECCTCO RTAMrU                                  on       26o       3.514     1.6       SI0       46.19        1      1.227     1.716       in6       g7      I.m         a54               1.103     3.316    11.011    14.30
(haL aw.m"    oobw   ob
PFAR    DTWCT HEATW                                            1¶64                             t6                           low                           1a7                            10                       TOWl Be  Cot
f3sw  loom                    (U{D' Og                      (UjD'OgM                      (UlD 0O                       (U'D'Og '0t                         Cloom
Local  F_rn   TOWl            LOos      Pome      TOl       LGal      Fami    TOl         LOOa      Po,oi   TOl         LOod_    Fwoi   TOW           Lout    FPo         Totl
Pumeow                                                136      4so        7100        so      2m        37           0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0       ¶n        n7      1,124
Aob ig046IiH         I40 _                            131        22       193       131        22        151       ¶31        22       ¶63         0         0         0         0         0         0       264       67        460
__AMMSWMUVNW                         1I1                        112       122                        31 m336                                      31      -35                    0         0         0       105     1.116    1¶221
Val  tNodP                                              0        70         71        9n       20    O               0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0   O             36        465
CwIkoluIdNAb.Spub.                                      0        45         45        16       110       ¶n          0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        19       225       244
W _stTI1                                               25       110        215         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        25       190       215
wood-cI*po,                                             I       100        101         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         1       100       101
nCla wbd p-vic                                         57        61       ¶i          21        61       ¶03        10a       1         25        10        16        25         0         0         0        97       200       27
p      OblToIouT w                                      a          0        as         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0         0        a6         0        26
__6hW nowCoo (bCL   1a"0  Ir2I'7                                             M        360     1,67m    .54"        172       3m        546        41        S        3 04        0         0         0       162      3.16      4,147
Fivlal C   . "a                                          6        ¶27       166        10       11       165        17        36        5          4         a        66         a         0         0        6        316        415
Prilm  Cm ke_                                             4    S    0        of       103        As       la         as        31        67        16        36        a          0         0         0       3          170       423
WIOTALPfOJCTCooMI          ORPAW4                      462      1.422     1.30        46      1.37      1.3m        256       444       700        OS       420       462         0         0         0      1.311     3.674     4.3       P
(haL  _ _a_ mId  i4SUSflIbs



'r 3i p'31  ig 8i prlg  ix i3 ur  4r
~ ~~      u11    - -  I I     '11
ti  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
. o coo  coo o      0o  o 0o0 ooo o          00 0 00o00
Y-A        , So               g s                              o 2."#gN i {
3   l I                                 I  I I
o JO  o        o  ow2  o o  o   o 
g xaNw                     SI~            Alta                 JU   ~A 
|  *^      :1 _  t 8± #                                 N      Y 3UsB     
0  00  o         fi 00 000    000  000   0   CCC   00000  O O
o~~~~ oN o o*~ o            oa ooo                 llo  
~e~O   ~  N   a5                                    R
8~~~~~~~~~~          o o,  o  o o
S~~~~~~~~~~ XHNNoooV                        ooo  



PARNMU MWNSCWAUTfY
hWIseuI   P40 1la P.. DH C       _.*Wr
Co.w.o S.wb_o 0                                             106.000    10,o000        0      110.000    10,o000        0       nooo       72.900        0         0         0        0         0         0        0 o    60.000     260,o0
T n .6 Mg0                                                  11.000      16,000        0       20,000     30.000        0       12,000     12.000        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      60.000      00.000
Eq&40mi                                              0      20,000      20.000        0      20.000      20.000        0           0           a        0         a         0        0         0        0         0      40,000      40,000
S.. lCom                                               0      14i.000    146.0M0        0      220,000    230.000        0      54,000      64,000        0         0         0        0         0        0         0     40,000      460,000
PlqImIC _W.w4..                                        0       14,000     14,100        0       22,000     22.000        0        8.400      6.400        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      4000        44.000
Nr. C"Wre5.                                            0        4.015      4.015        0       12,50      123.60       0           0           0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      10,410      1.6105
SUBTOTAL                                               0      164,015    154.415        0      21tS,00    266,600        0       62400      62.400        0         0         0        0         0        0         0    57t005       522.05
SEEn ENER4A
,_Mnb                                                 a      20,000       Um           0       25000 2W000              0           0           0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      60.000      50,00
Ewipmem                                               0      25.000      25.000        0       25.000     25.000        0           0           0        0         C         0        0         0         0        0      so0C00      10,000
_F_C_@ so"Ocm                                          0      50.000       0.000        0       60,000     5O.OC         0           0           0         0        0         0        0         a         0        0     100.00      100,000
PI'v io.IAbohw                                         0        6.000      1.000        0        5.000      G.000        0           a           a        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      10.000      10.000
rrbc_~ -                                               0        1.371      1.315        0        2.750      2.7SO        0 o                     0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0       4.125       4.125
NSTOTAL                                                0      5.376       6.375         0       6.750      57.750        0           0           0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0      114o125    114.125
(544      smh(on
MINIY OF  _          TVROIET. LOCAL
EM 0AON  TAL DEPARTMETS
AND OTHER EJVll00WEOOTAL QaRUPS
T mS4      my Sw._                                    0       15,600     15,000        0       75.000     75.000        0       10,000      10,000       0         0         0        0         0         0        0      100.000    100.000
Tra. m.rbo                                         6.6in25     50.62     11,250    25.125      26.125     5e.250     3,750       3,750       7.500        0        0         0        0         0         0    37,500      37,500     75.000
a,  T.                                                0        3.750      3.M70        0       10.750     16.750         0       2.500      2.500         0        0         0        0         0         0        0      25.000      25,000
S. _ogam.C_w                                       C,a         24,375     30.000   25.126      121.615    150.000     3.750      16,250     20,000         0        0         0        0         0         0    37,500     162,500    250,000
Pr n.c_-l.                                           56a        2t426      3,000    23.13       12.Ia      15.000      375       1,025      2,000         0        0         0        0         0         0     3,750      10.250     20.00
Pa.. C_e._ n                                          m          070       1'        3,044       4,703      14,747    1.444       1,341       2.t74        0        0         0        0         0         0    10,416      0,714      10,130
"USTOTAL                                            7,110      27.46      24,506    U.101      140.706     170.747  5S,S         10,216      24,754        0        0         0         0        0         0    51.664     107.464    25,130
TOTAL OTITUTION4AL SUVPORT (iSD1                    7.110   1,071,435   1,0705.m1    0."61    t00,0      2,0 04       5,56      0711,00     676,6          0        0         0         0        0         0    *1.06    4.0n717    4.124,644
TOTAL 4TfUOm. SUPPORT (EEMO                        6,001   14,464.373  14,60.44   526,247  27,417,462  27,74.760    75,175  I,103.072  13.16150            0        0         0         0        0         0   67,46   64.167.1107  *k,393
10
0 Ln



^  -       ~~-                                                    Pwqe 6 of 8
-J a e          0 e  0   
I1 g      !    8  °  °    e   
~~~~~1
5~~     ~~~ 0    X          f  
§- |g  rt  *  2      ES
~~~ I
d!         2 a.!a    



WSTONIA
DOTRICT HEATINO R1E4ILTATION PROJECT
DetaSad Co  E6tNG166
(EEK O00
TARTU DSTrCT HEATI                                             194                          196                           1966                         167                           low                      Total Be" Cod
(EEK O00                     (EE  o'o00                    (EEK 000                     (EEK000                      (EEK '000                   (EEK 0001
LoouI    FoniU,   Tol        Locl      F eown   TG..      Locl       Foc    Tol         LOWal     Foi4n   Total      LOl       Forei    Totkl    Loomi       Foreign   Totl
I1    Co
Luurab 60. Comesn                                   4,454    17,500    2164    10.363    41.000    51353          0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0    14,607    SE.500    73,307
RoP0_ mIa2C1.331                                             6.600     7.931       363     1,700    2.063         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0      1,s4    6.300  0.04
Ropk6e6B_3Cosw er30                                              0         0       31      1,220    1.5         oos     2, 30     3.536        0         0         0         0         0        0       960     4.150    s506O
CoW.iu        Ppba-TwraNdW tk                          0         0         0     1.636     4,1eo0    6,73       470     1.220    I,6           0        0         0         0         0         0     2,414    6.060     6,404
Daft Combugstion I6 26                                         660 o                 0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0 o     206       0oo       on
RFW ldfIIIablt         wlg                          me      2.300     3,136       660     3.200    4,160       960     3.200     4.160       goo     3,200     4,160      6o      3,200     4,160    41.676    15,100    16,77
rA.9I 6s*taiN,,                                        0         0         0         o20   6.000    6,20          0     6.000     6.20       620      6.000    6,620       620     6.000     *.620     2.460    24,000    26,460
WOO*-CWOiP                                             7     1,30     1,357         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        7      1,350    1,357
Wa6. Tregsoi6                                                  500     1.093         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0       593       S00     1.063
SpwarPat                                             564       o0    1.34          5604     600     1.364      564         00     1,364        0         0         0         0         0        0      1.762    2.400     4.102
DeegNW ss in                                         560     2.000     2.560       944     2,600    3.744       266     1,000     1.286      116       600       716       116      550       6n       2,015    6 ,60     6,015
pl O( O Teolaio                                      560         0       560        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0       560         0       560
_cm     e_so"COtra(lN                               *.02     31,660    40.643    16.071    61.51s    77,051    3.552    15,150    16.702     1,66      6.o00    11,496    1,6"      6,750    11,446    32.312   127,930   160.242
Pty.         _ COeMnuls.                              on      3.1s 6    4.064     I,N07     .156     770         355     1,515     1e70       170       960      1,150      170      975      1,145     3.231    12,793    16,024
Fla  CovUI  uoh                                      I.S33      570     2.404     4.56  S ,367        7,603     1.367    1,250     2.617       663     1.076     1,61       953     1.341     2.23      9.253    7,926    17.178
SwTOTAL PROJECT COST FOR TARTU                      11.756    35.60    47,441    22274    71.125    63.356     5,274    17,915    23,150     2,671    11.656    14,529    2,620    12066    14,666   44.795   14,649   163.444
PAPAF   STRICTHEATINT                                          1604                          165                          ¶96                           19 g97                       199e                     Total BUD Cost
tEEK '000                    (EEK '000                     (ECK 'O0                     (CEK '0005                   (EEK 000                      (EEK '000
LoCl      Foregn   Toal      Lol       Foi       Totl      LoCal     Foren   TOt        Loca      Foign   Total       Locl     Foreign   Total     Local     Foreign   Total
hwom COSt
Pww       NlmCowaiu                                1.673     6,760    10,633       796     3,750     4,546        o         0         0         0        0         0         0         0               2,670    12,10    15.160
F.tId --- N   lDh* b SNsook                         1.772      300     Z072      1.772      300      2.07      1.772      300    2Z072          0        0         0         0         0         0     5.315      900     6.215
A"d      ls*pone                                     146     1.507     1.03        424     4.520     4.644      424     4,520     4.944       424     4.520     4,944        0         0         0     1.417    15,067    16,464
Vltb Sp6d PUN"                                         5       *50        15 ,326          3,20      ,246         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     1,331     4.6e70    6,201
Con roNWPedhn  S3 3                                            610       613       246     2430      2.M7         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0       251     3.040     3,291
WOW TtIsdueu                                         331     2,505     2en           0        a         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0       331     2565     2.66
Wood-clsIgpw                                           7     1,350     1.357         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         7     1,360     1,357
Do6sopanShw6rsI6Vn                                   766     1.100     1.66S       267     1.100     1367       130       250       360      130       250       360         0         0         0     1,311     2.700    4.011
PFojd O    WfI T.oluw                                354         0       364         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0       354        0       354
Ss*b611Cta01(ot Was9                                 5,255    17,142    22397     4.654    16.020    20,874     2325      5,070    7.365       554     4,770     5.324        0         0         0     2,67    43.002    5s.s96
PlyNllCe"  s  g . s                                   52       1,714    2240       40      1,002     o067       233      S50        740       5S        477      532         0         0         0     1,299     4,300     5,550
Fb. C on                                               W67      471     1,336     1,36       63       2211       65        416     1,313       262       525      767         0         a         0     3,412     2,205     5.706
SUIBTOTAL PROJECT COST FOR PARWU                     6,647    19.326    26,975    6,727    16,503    26,230     3,453     s.665     0,446      671     5,772     6,43         0         0         0    17,66     46,1566    67.2s5
(kwt b.e   and



TAdLtM DITrICT HFATVn                                          164                          1O5                           196                          1367                         136                       TOtall.  Coot
(EEK'4000                    (EtK'00                      (EE5'0009                     (EEK'Ooc                     (     E l'oom                (EEK10 t
Loa       Foalp    TOWtl     LOW       Fat oTal            Ltl      Fon   TOtl          Loal      FoeI     TOWa      Locl      Fo        TGgn tl   i         Paso    TOtW
kw_m06 Cow
RdPD  DM  *&(hiiTLT-VPO*                             1V7       773       ttS    1,123     4,lSS     5.711       562     2m        2.05         0         0         0        0         0         0     1,071     7.M      93.646
sow Coc      a I I       t  34                               2,203     2,572      1in       946     1.104         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0       527     314       3676
cmoo_n                              0         0         0     2,_       7,06i    10,567     2.511 71 .t    ¶0.167            0        0         0         0         0         0     5.797    15.336    21,133
R.bdWLao &htaa                                       242     1200      1.502      727     3.7       4,512       727     3.705     4.512      45      2.520     3,006      242      1,260     1.502    2,423    12010    15.033
A II        _        _bktAM                        1j1      11,7t70    13.706    5,746    35,364    41,110    5,746   i5.364    41.110      3.60    2.56    27.411       1,316     11,70    1¶3706    19,130   117.14   137.044
VotabSgPednpea                                         0         0         0      Mlo    4.3,5    3.00          50      4,35      5.025      312     2200      2.512         0        0         0      1,571    10,t60    125,61
RImolsCouit                                            0         0         a      In      1.m       2.167         0        0         0         0         0         0         O        0         0       lOt    1.S        217
WataT                                              1.36      2.737     4.136     4,11     3.200    1236       1.6       2737      4,136        0         0         0         0         0        0      6,00    13574    20.664
MOP uW._   _MaWurno.6wt                              612     2.240     2,912     1,50     5.300     6O            0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0     2.252     7,540     9.603
Dca_ &W 6mvhlobn                                     32      1.042     1.370     1.2      4.0   , .361        1,152     3,825     4.677      624     1,4      2,516       312      947      1.250    3.7      11,06    15,.#4
Po OtOlWT _Ol,lO 1.10                                            0     1.100        0         0         0         0        0          a        0         0         0         0         0        0       l,liO       0     1.10
_a man codto 161 WmI*62   22.050    2t3.42    13.516    7t.420    "4,15   ¶3.113    60,107    7.                                             SAS6   30.190    36,446      2.470    13,1t7    16.46T    456S0   202,764   24k,414
Pt     _ ml    490we                                  at      2.X6      2., 4     1,ti      7.6l2    3.464     l.tl      6.011     7.w        on      3013       ,545       247     1.400     1.647     4.6      20.7     24.41
Pd.. clt5omA.                                       1.           05     1.6,      5.237     4,6       1.300    5.046     4,       l0.7       2.466     3.321    5607      1,75      1.5       3.310    I15,      15.014    30*6
3IDTOTAL PaDJECT COWF POiTALLIN                     7.71    24.061    33,60   23.75    611,76   113,693    13,472    71,077        -.54      37       36J,SS   44,737     4,10J    17.31    21,424    S,.466   23S,04   JOJ,i42
NW-CHP PABWT rtl34 1w 1M                                                                                                                               19"                           li_                      TOW asoC"co
/EEK -54 INEW0009                                          (EEK1 009                    (EC 0009                     (UK 0009                      lEEK 00
Locl      poem    Tol        LAW       FM        TOt       Lotl      Fo_ig    Tta       Loa       ForgP    TeW       LOl       Foeg    Total       Loca      Feo      TOtal
_ t~u  Coot
AN Pcb _Ao                                           so      4,7      4,520        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0      SO0      4.20      4.,20
AlAa* Om d M           _ASMW                         332     7.1tl     7.te7      t3s      7,i       0.203        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0      1,745    14.445    16,160
Vim    _PwdPup                                         0         0         0     2.50    16.15     1.365          0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     2.5Z6    1¶8*      21.
WalarTmsllmt                                         250     2,205     2.545     1.440    17.,20    16720         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0     1I'M     10,575    2t12
ScVltaa                                              34      I.m       1.33        41      I.M       2.231        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0       64   OOO70        3.013
6.*Oota"U C"(hd. "m                                 1,00      4614,0    6 1G.0    5.316    45,366     0,O610       0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0     7,146    60.146     7.00
Ph     C        l                                     1S      1.46      1.15        us1    4.560     SO.S                    0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0      714      6.015 n6,720
p,loC                                                  0 32     406       710     I,53      2.46t     4,011        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     1,U2      2.t0      4.722
6tlOTOUL        T P090407OT FOR I6U                 2.315    16.74    lO,OSO      7,36i    52.s16   S1,S62         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     3.6      101.      78,740
tU           t 065   06V04                                     1364                         116                           ¶36                          ¶07                           ICCO                     ToitalB.Coot
(EElt'O0                     (EEK00"                      (USC6OO                       (EEK 00                      (ElK 0009                     (EEK't000
Locl  e oow        Tal       LOl        rNeIg    TOW       Loca     FoeI      TOta      Lt        For%p   TOWd        Local     Fd       TOta      LOOM      Fhr.p    TOt
SoarC.w                                            2.,5   12,774    15,432       5316    26.547    30,663     5.31     2 3,547    30,6          0        0         0         0         0         0    13.o0    $          77,150
selw R.ptas                                            0         0         0     4,6M    23.1S    V7.42       4,       23,615    27.42Z         0        0         0         0         0         0     9.t17    460       54.47
0DlMibPUW mvbn                                        77     2.700     3467        737     Z700      k467       707     2,7C0     %467          0        0         0         0         0         0     2,s30      .100    10,400
_ba S8c Costam" tL  @4                               3.454    15.474    13.75    10,521     0,652    61,763    10.021    50,652    1.,75         0        0         0         0         0         0    20*1    117.196   142.464
PkidetmConoiud_                                       345      1.547    1,'  1, 02          5,066     5.173    1.62     5,06      3.17          0        0         0         0         0         0     2.930    11,720    14,
h70      426       t       3.12      2,737     5.561     4.3       4.1i8     3.401        0         0         0        0         0         0     7,63      7.413    15,317 
UUTOTUL P09.5 COOT FORl SMALL                        4,336    17,447    2t,116 1t.1O        16746    73,652    16.2113    .144    76.35          0         0        0         0         0         0    36.72    130.337   172.060
MOLER COVROM                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MO
TOTAL P09.JCTCOST( (MW"                             33,046  ¶14,74   147,111    77171   20,054   36313         44.417   1,131  ¶i1 ,50      11,O0S    54.1t0 tO    m       6.92_   23.397    0tO.1    173.37   641sr7  615.010           0
Ilh I



ANNEX 6
ESTONIA                                              Page 1 of 2
District Heating Rehablltttlon Project
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Contractual and Other Payments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element          Pre-                        Project   year                      Total   Remarks
Project    1      2        3      4       5      6            Payment
Loan Timine
Sign/Effec/Close                     **                                    **
SUDDIy and Installation
SmaU boiler replacements                     1.64    1.64    1.64                    4.92        ICB
Large boiler conversions             4.1    3.3                                      7.4         ICB
Small boiler conversions             2.23   2.32    2.34                              6.89        LIB, other (local shopping)
WVorks
Installation of DH equipment         0.6    2       2       2       0.9              7.5         ICB, other (local shopping)
Repair of preheater                  0.41                                            0.41        ICB
(3c0od
Equipment for DH rehabilitation      2.64   8        8      8       3.11             29.75       ICB, Other
(intemational and local shopping)
Consultancies
Supervision                          0.85   0.85    0.85    0.85    0.45             3.85        Other
Tech. Assist.                        0.78   1.5      1.5                              3.78       Other
TOTALS                               11.61  19.61   16.33   12.49  4.46              64.5
(Bank-Financed)                      (5.50)  (12.30) (9.74)  (9.05)  (1.81)          (38.4)



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
ESTONIA
Distnct Heating Rehabilitation Project
List of Procurement Packages
Cost                            Procurement         Implementation
PackaRe                             (US$ million)                   Method               Date
Turn-key boiler replacements        4.92                            ICB                  11/97
Turn-key boiler conversions         6.39                            LIB                  11/97
Small works, boiler conversions     0.5                             Local shopping       11/97
Tum-key boiler conversions
Tartu and Parnu                     7.4                             ICB                  04/95
Works, repair of air preheators     0.36                            ICB                  06/95
Small works, air preheators         0.05                            Local shopping       10/95
Equipment for water treatment and
automatization, IRU                 4.5                             ICB                  10/95
Installation of IRU equipment       0.61                            Local shopping       10/95
Tallinn DH equipment (packaging
method is still under discussion)
pumps, meters, heat exchangers,
water treatment equipment)          15.99                           ICB                  9/98
Small equipment Tallinn DH          1.08                            Local shopping       9/98
Installation of Tallinn equipment   4.34                            International shopping 9/98
Parnu and Tartu DH equipment        7.84                            ICB                  9/98
Installation of Tartu and Parnu equipment 2.55                      Local shopping       9/98
Office equipment                    0.34                            Local shopping       12/94
Design and supervision              3.85                            1/                   9/98
Training                            3.78                            1/                   12/96
1/ Following Bank guidelines or from grant agencies.



ANNEX 7
ESTvONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(U(USS million)--
Bank FY and                 Disbursed    Cumulative   Disbursements
Semester Ending            in Semester    Amount      as 6 of Total
1995:
December 31, 1994            1.0           1.0            2.6
June 30, 1995                2.0           3.0            7.8
1996:
December 31, 1995            4.0           7.0           18.2
June 30, 1996                5.0          12.0           31.3
1997:
December 31, 1996            5.5          17.5           45.6
June 30, 1997                4.5          22.0           57.3
1998:
December 31, 1997            5.5          27.5           71.6
June 30, 1998                4.5          32.0           83.3
1999:
December 31, 1998            1.5          33.5           87.2
June 30, 1999                1.5          35.0           91.1
2000:
December 31, 1999            3.4          38.4           100.0
Loan Closing Date: December 31. 1999



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABIL1TATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A.    Overview
1.    Introduction.  Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through improved efficiency in the use of domestic and imported fuels and to
contribute to a reduced level of air pollution in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu. Preparation of the proposed
project has included environmental studies consistent with the requirements of the Estonian 'Order of
Carrying out Environmental Impact Assessment" (Government Regulation 13.11.1992) and the provisions
of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." In accordance with these
procedures, a sectoral environmental assessment, consistent with the requirements for a category "A"
project, was prepared for the Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program. Environmental reviews
were prepared, consistent with the requirements for a category "B" project, for the DH Rehabilitation
Program in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu and for the Iru (Tallinn) Power Plant Rehabilitation Program. The
Institutional Support Program was placed in category "C" and did not require environmental analysis;
however, an environmental training activity has been included in this element of the proposed project
design.
2.    Present Conditions. Estonian energy production and consumption is responsible for the majority
of the air pollution in the country. Air quality problems of regional significance are a result of the oil
shale fired Baltic and Estonian power plants near Narva. In urban areas and towns locally significant air
quality problems occur during the winter heating season due to the use of coal, oil shale oil and heavy
fuel oil in low-efficiency boilers used for DH and building heating. Estonian health authorities report
human health effects associated with air pollution (sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust), principally
heart and respiratory diseases, especially bronchial asthma, with pregnant women and children having
higher rates of problems. While levels of air pollution have declined during the last several years due
to the economic restructuring process, they should be expected to increase in the medium future when
economic recovery occurs, unless energy conservation and environmental protection measures are
adopted.
3.    In the northeastern oil shale region energy production is the most important cause of degradation
of surface and groundwater resources due to impacts from mining and the disposal of massive amounts
of solid wastes generated by the Baltic and Estonian power plants. On a local scale, the operation of old
and poorly maintained DH networks results in the waste of large amounts of freshwater and in some
situations may contribute to pollution of groundwater. Improper storage of heavy fuel oil and wastes at
some DH stations is anticipated to have resulted in the contamination of groundwater and soil.
4.    Review of Experience in Nordic Countries. In order to support development and review of
environmental studies for the proposed project, a series of field visits were made by Bank environmental
staff to review the practices and experience with the use of peat and wood fuels in district heating systems
in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Meetings were held with representatives of environmental authorities,
peat and wood fuel suppliers, district heating utilities, research institutions and consulting firms. Visits



Anex 8
Page 2 of 6
were designed to allow for review of all stages of the fuel cycle under physical conditions comparable
to those found in Estonia. In addition, a number of Estonian energy and environmental specialists have
had the opportunity to make site visits to review practices in these countries.
5.    Estonian Participation and Consultation Process. The environmental studies for the proposed
project were prepared with the full cooperation of the Department of Ecological Expertise of the Ministry
of Environment and the participation of Estonian experts. Representatives of the Ministry of Environrment
have been involved in all stages of the development of the proposed project and have participated in a
series of site visits to all proposed program sites. Consultations have also been conducted with
representatives of the concerned local environmental offices. As per the requirements of the Bank, a
consultative process was used for the preparation of the sector environmental assessment for the proposed
Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program, involving concerned ministries and representatives of
nongovernmental organizations, including the Estonian Green Movement/Coalition Clean Baltic, the
Estonian Fund for Nature and other local NGOs. A meeting was held to review the findings of the
sectoral environmental assessment and proposed mitigation and monitoring plan between the Estonian
State Energy Department, Ministry of Environment, the Estonian Green Movement/Coalition Clean Baltic
and the World Bank.
B.    Proposed Project Components
6.    Introduction.  Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through improved efficiency in the use of indigenous and imported fuels,
contribute to a reduced level of air pollution in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu, reduce the waste of water used
in district heating systems, and promote the enviromnentally sound development of local peat and wood
as fuel resources for district heating. It would also improve health by increasing the availability of winter
heat supplies and hot water through providing an affordable and reliable source of fuel.
7.     Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program. The proposed project component was the
subject of a sectoral environmental assessment (SEA) prepared by a consortium of firms under the
leadership of IVL-Swedish Environmental Research Institute with the participation of Jaakko Poyry
Consulting ab, Swedish Development Consulting Partners ab, all from Sweden, and the Institute of
Ecology of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. The objective of the investigation was to evaluate the
potential environmental impacts from implementation of the National Energy Savings Programme and
other initiatives of the Government of Estonia to increase the use of indigenous peat and wood as fuels
for district heating systems. These activities would be implemented by the Estonian public and private
sectors with support from domestic sources and well as foreign funding (EBRD, Government of
Denmark, Government of Sweden, G-24, and under the proposed Bank project). Given the national
nature of this long-term program and the potentially large number of highly dispersed sites at which boiler
conversions and replacements would occur, the study was conducted using a sector rather than a site-
specific approach.
8.    Major Flndings. The sector environmental assessment prepared for the program concluded that
sufficient indigenous peat and wood resources existed in Estonia, including within a 50 km radius of
Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu, for these fuel resources to be used for district heating provided that proper
environmental policies and guidelines were used and monitored by the Government of Estonia. It noted
that the selection of areas for fuel harvesting and the methods used needed to be controlled to minimize
adverse impacts to biological resources and hydrology.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
9.    The proposed program would allow for the use of indigenous peat and wood fuels in place of
heavy fuel oil; this would result in a reduction of air pollution levels, with a decrease in the emissions
of SO2, NO,, and a slight increase in the level of dust when peat is used. The peat and/or wood would
need to be transported to the boilers which would increase the level of traffic on rural roads and city
streets. Additional storage space would be required at the boiler houses for the storage of adequate
supplies of fuel and measures would need to be taken to cover the peat to avoid dust blowing into
residential and commercial areas. With regard to ash disposal, peat ash would require transport to and
disposal in authorized sites and wood ash would be transported to locations where it can be used as
fertilizer in forests following proper treatment.
10.   Proposed Mitigation Plan. Preparation of the sectoral environmental assessment included the
development of a mitigation plan to be used for boiler conversion activities to be undertaken in Estonia
with support from public and/or private sources of funding including the proposed Bank program. The
elements of the mitigation plan are presented in Attachment 1. The environmental mitigation plan will
be jointly adopted and implemented by the Ministry of Environment and cooperating implementation
organizations.
11.   The proposed mitigation plan includes policy actions to: (a) concentrate the harvesting of peat,
other than on a well-justified basis, to locations which are already developed or have been previously
drained to allow for harvesting in the future; (b) require that the harvest of fuel wood be conducted only
in connection with regular forestry operations as part of a management plan; and (c) conduct regular
reviews to assess appropriate user fees for public and private harvesting of peat and wood resources to
include their management and site rehabilitation costs. At the operational level, the Government of
Estonia would adopt environmental guidelines for the harvesting and management of peat and wood fuels
resources developed on the basis of those proposed in the sectoral environmental assessment. The plan
also includes a number of recommended operational technical measures, a monitoring plan and proposals
for environmental training.
12.   Environmental Monitoring Program. The mitigation plan would include development and
implementation of environmental monitoring programs to support implementation of the policies,
guidelines and technical measures described in the preceding paragraphs. The implementation of the
monitoring program would be part of the routine responsibilities of the Ministry of Environment and its
local environmental offices. It may be appropriate to include the results of the monitoring program as
an element of the present reporting procedures for forest, peat and mineral resources management.
Special provisions should also be made for this issue to be covered in the regular reporting structure for
protected areas and wildlife management.
13.   Consultation Process. See paragraph 4 above.
14.   Tallinn District Heating System Rehabilitation Program. The proposed project component was
subject to an environmental review prepared by Ekono Energy of Finland with the cooperation of ESP
Engineering of Estonia.
15.   Major Findings. The proposed program includes operational and environmental improvements
of the oil-fired burners through installation of combustion controls, one pipeline replacement, integration
of two networks, substation improvements and a water treatment component. Activities under the
proposed project are complemented by an on-going EBRD financed program to improve substations. In



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Tallinn, it is estimated that energy production is responsible for 90% of the SO2 emissions, 15-20% of
the NO, emissions and contributes to the dust levels. Although, with the exception of the winter heating
season, air quality in Tallinn is generally within acceptable limits, the forests around Tallinn are reported
to have been damaged by air pollution. It is anticipated that the improvements in the oil fired burners
and substations should increase fuel efficiency and reduce air emissions, especially SO,.
16.   The improvements to the distribution system and the water treatment component would also
significantly decrease the use of chemicals and the waste of water by supporting a water treatment
component and rehabilitation of the distribution system. The improvement of substations would also
contribute to greater energy efficiency. In the older parts of the system, especially the boilers and
distribution network, asbestos has been used as an insulating material, therefore measures would be
needed to minimize the risks to workers involved in the removal of this material. In addition, proper
steps need to be taken, in consultation with local environmental authorities, to ensure its proper and safe
disposal.  It is also reported that on some occasions oil has leaked from the boiler plants to the
groundwater and actions should be taken to prevent this problem from recurring.
17.   Mitigation Plan. The proposed plan has been designed to address environmental concerns at the
plant and distribution level in the context of a rehabilitation phase of investment. Proposed mitigation
activities would focus on addressing issues related to the safe removal and disposal of asbestos waste
materials during the rehabilitation of the boilers and network of the DH system.
18.   Monitoring Plan.  Environmental performance of the boilers would be conducted by the
Environmental Office in Tallinn in conjunction with the existing air quality monitoring program of the
Estonian Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology. Issues related to the use of water by the DH system
would be monitored by the local water authority.
19.   Tartu District Heating System Rehabilitation Program. The proposed project component was
subject to an environmental review prepared by the joint venture of Fjarrvarmebyran ab and Stockholm
Energi ab, both of Sweden, with the support of a local consultant team.
20.   Major Findings. The proposed program includes the conversion of four existing boilers from
use of a mixture of heavy fuel oil and natural gas to peat and wood fuels (two 30 MW boilers to peat and
two 15 MW boilers to wood chips), one pipeline section replacement, substation improvements, water
treatment and rehabilitation of the distribution system. The converted boilers at the Luunja plant would
be equipped with electrostatic precipitators and the Ropka plant would be equipped with cyclone dust
cleaning equipment. Activities under the proposed project are complemented by an ongoing EBRD
financed program to improve substations and install heat meters. In order to reduce excessive fuel costs
and to increase fuel security, a local strategy has been adopted to use either heavy fuel oil or as an
alternative a combination of fuels including wood fuels and peat. The proposed project would support
this alternative approach which would result in reduced S02 and NOx emissions when compared with
the heavy fuel oil alternative and include investments in emissions control equipment to effectively limit
particulates associated with the use of peat.
21.   The proposed peat harvesting sites are fully developed locations with large reserves. The
source(s) of wood fuels is currently not decided; however, significant wood fuel resources exist outside
protected areas. Local authorities have approved use of an ash disposal site. In the older parts of the
system, especially the boilers and distribution network, asbestos has been used as an insulating material,



Annex8
Page 5 of 6
therefore measures are needed to minimize the risks to workers involved in the removal of this material.
In addition, proper steps need to be taken, in consultation with local environmental authorities, to ensure
its proper and safe disposal.
22.   Mitigation Plan. Proposed mitigation actions include local implementation, by the Environmental
Office in Tartu, of the mitigation plan presented for the Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program,
with regard to the harvesting of peat and wood fuels to support operation of the boilers following
conversion. On the local level, proposed mitigation activities would focus on addressing issues related
to the safe removal and disposal of asbestos waste materials during the rehabilitation of the DH system.
23.   Monitoring Plan. Environmental performance monitoring of the boilers would be conducted by
the Environmental Office in Tartu in conjunction with its existing program for monitoring air quality and
the use of local solid waste disposal sites. Monitoring of the harvesting of peat and wood fuels would
also be done by this office as part of its routine responsibility and as an element of the national
monitoring program described above in paragraph 12 concerning the harvesting of indigenous fuels.
Issues related to the use of water by the DH system would be monitored by the local water authority.
24.   Parnu District Heating System Rehabilitation Program. The proposed project component was
subject to an environmental review prepared by Carl Bro International a/s of Denmark supported by
supplemental studies.
25.   Major Findings. The proposed program includes the conversion of two existing boilers from
use of heavy fuel oil to peat and wood fuels, substation improvements, new main pumps and a water
treatmnent component. Activities under the proposed project are complemented by an on-going EBRD
financed program to improve substations. The proposed program would result in positive environmental
impact by reducing emissions from the use of heavy fuel oil through the substitution of peat and wood
fuels. It would also significantly decrease the use of chemicals and the waste of water by supporting a
water treatment component and rehabilitation of the distribution system. The improvement of substations
would also contribute to greater energy efficiency. In the older parts of the system, especially the boilers
and distribution network, asbestos has been used as an insulating material, therefore measures are needed
to minimize the risks to workers involved in the removal of this material. In addition, proper steps need
to be taken, in consultation with local environmental authorities, to ensure its proper and safe disposal.
26.   The proposed peat harvesting sites are fully developed locations with large reserves. The
source(s) of wood fuels is currently not decided; however, significant wood fuel resources exist outside
protected areas. The Parnu Environment Office has approved the conversion of the boilers from heavy
oil to the use of peat and wood chips. It has also approved the use of peat from presently operating
harvesting areas to the northwest and northeast of Parnu. In addition, it has authorized the disposal of
the ash from the boiler in the present solid waste disposal site.
27.   Mitigation Plan. Proposed mitigation actions would include local implementation, by the
Environmental Office in Parnu, of the mitigation plan presented for the Small Boiler
Conversion/Replacement Program, with regard to the harvesting of peat and wood fuels to support
operation of the boilers following conversion. On the local level, proposed mitigation activities would
focus on addressing issues related to the safe removal and disposal of asbestos waste materials during the
rehabilitation of the DH system. Given the congestion in Parnu from north-south international traffic and



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
the heavy use of the port, a plan would be developed and implemented to minimize traffic impacts from
the transport of peat and wood fuels to the converted boiler house.
28.   Monitoring Plan.  Environmental performance of the boilers would be conducted by the
Environmental Office in Parnu in conjunction with its existing program for monitoring air quality and
the use of local solid waste disposal sites. Monitoring of the harvesting of peat and wood fuels would
also be done by this office as part of its routine responsibility and as an element of the national
monitoring program described above in paragraph 12 concerning the harvesting of indigenous fuels.
Issues related to the use of water by the DH system would be monitored by the local water authority.
29.   Iru (Tallinn) Power Plant Improvement Program. The proposed project component was
subject to an environmental review prepared by IVO International Ltd. of Finland.
30.   Major Findings. The proposed program would support improvements to air preheaters for one
combined-heat-and-power unit, water treatment facilities and modern automation and measurement
equipment in the power plant. Improvements to the preheater and automation system would allow for
improved efficiency in the use of fuel and slightly reduce flue gases. The decrease in flue gas emissions
would lower the environmental emission fees paid by Eesti Energia to the Estonian Environmental Fund.
Improvements to the water treatment system would allow for significant improvements in the water
chemistry at the plant, thus reducing corrosion and scaling problems while decreasing the use of treatment
chemicals by approximately 40%. In addition, these improvements and rehabilitation activities to be
included under the program would reduce the need for make-up water in the system. The alternative of
installing air quality monitoring equipment in the stack of the plant was reviewed and it was decided that
periodic measurements with mobile equipment would be more cost effective.
31.   Environmental Mitigation Plan.  The proposed program has been designed to address
environmental concerns at the plant in the context of a limited rehabilitation phase of investment. It does
not require a mitigation plan given the positive environmental impacts from the proposed interventions.
32.   Monitoring Plan. Environmental performance of the partially rehabilitated power plant would
be conducted by the Environmental Office in Tallinn in conjunction with the existing air quality
monitoring program of the Estonian Institute for Meteorology and Hydrology. Issues related to the use
of water by the plant would be monitored by the local water authority.
33.   Institutional Support Program. An environmental training plan would be implemented for local
environmental offices, peat producers and wood harvesters concerning the objectives and implementation
of the policies, guidelines, technical measures and monitoring programs described in the preceding
paragraphs. The training plan would be supported as an element of the Institutional Support Program
of the proposed project. It should be noted that the EU PHARE program has proposed that a training
program for environmental aspects of wood fuels and peat management be included as part of its future
activities in Estonia. In addition, the EU PHARE program and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (SEPA) will conduct a comprehensive review of the environmental monitoring needs
of Estonia in the near future.



Anex 8
Attachment I
Page I of 3
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
SMALL BOILER CONVERSION/REPLACEMENT PROGRAM
PROPOSED MIGATION AND MONITORING PLAN
1.    Introduction. On the basis of the findings of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment
prepared for the proposed program, a mitigation and monitoring plan was prepared for
implementation by the Ministry of Environment and cooperating project implementation organizations.
2.    Policies. The plan would include adoption of the following policies:
(a)    Peat Harvesting. Peat harvesting, other than on a well justified basis, would be
concentrated at locations which are presently developed or have been previously
drained to allow for harvesting in the future;
(b)    Wood Fuel Harvesting. The harvesting of fuel wood for use in district heating
systems would be conducted in connection with regular forestry operations as part of a
management plan; and
(c)    User Fees. Regular reviews would be conducted to assess appropriate user fees for
public and private harvesting of peat and wood resources to ensure they reflect the
current value of the resources and that the fees for public owned resources are
adequate to cover their management and site rehabilitation costs.
3.     Inventory of Areas Closed to Harvesting or Which Should Have Restrictions. In order to
minimize adverse ecological impacts, the Ministry of Environment would prepare and disseminate an
inventory of areas that should not be subject to development for either peat or wood fuel harvesting or
which have specific types of restrictions limiting the type or intensity of harvesting. This inventory
would provide specific guidance on measures required for the conservation of ecologically sensitive
"wet forests." The inventory would be prepared and issued within one year of the date of project
effectiveness.
4.    Environmental Guidelines. The plan would include adoption and implementation of
environmental guidelines for the harvesting and management of peat and wood fuel resources. These
guidelines would be used by the Ministry of Environment in its role as the responsible government
organization for the management of forest, peat and mineral resources and by the public and private
sector interests involved in the harvesting and sale of these resources. These guidelines would be
prepared and issued within one year of the date of project effectiveness.
5.    Development of a Demand Analysis. The Ministry of Environment, in coordination with the
Estonian State Energy Department, would review the potential supply and demand for wood fuels and
peat and develop an estimate of the sustainable level of substitution by these fuels. This analysis
would provide a basic guideline for management decisions by both organizations concerning policies,
planning and technical measures for the medium and long-term use of these resources. The analysis
would be prepared within one year of the date of effectiveness of the proposed project.
6.    Technical Measures. The following technical measures would be adopted to improve
environmental management practices:



Annex-8
Attachment I
Page 2 of 3
(a)    Peat Related Actions
Develop and implement procedures for control of impacts to water resources,
including:
-     Load retention designs for field ditches;
-      Required use of sedimentation basins;
-      Use of surface drainage methods; and
-      Adoption of peat filtration methods; and
*     Develop and implement guidelines for fire protection at peat harvesting sites;
*     Develop and implement procedures for the effective reclamation of peat
harvesting sites; and
*     Evaluate which areas would be best used, following completion of harvesting
activities, as wetland areas or for other nature conservation or hydrological
purposes.
(b)    Wood Fuels Related Actions
3     Adoption of a guideline that allows for a total harvest of branches and tops at.
any site only once per rotation;
*     Support use of modern logging and transportation systems to limit disruption
of soils;
-     Support an active reforestation program;
e     Improve programs to locate and control forest fires;
*     Restrict harvesting in areas where pressure from soil acidity is high;
*     Promote harvesting techniques which permit the even spreading of harvesting
residue; and
*     Develop guidelines concerning limitations on harvest for certain types of sites,
including Arctostaphylos-alvar, Cladonia and Calluna sites.
(c)    Transportation, Storage, Combustion and Ash Disposal
*     Adopt better practices for the transport of peat and wood fuels, including the
development of designated routes and driver safety instruction;
*     Adopt guidelines for on-site storage facilities, especially for peat, which would
include fire protection plans;
*     Develop guidelines for boilers concerning applicable air emissions standards to
be issued to all concerned parties; these should include information on
techniques which can be used for minimization of emissions on a cost
effective basis; and



Annex 8
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
Develop guidelines for dissemination to boiler operators, municipal
governments and local environmental agencies concerning procedures for the
disposal of peat and wood ash. Priority should be given to the redeposition of
wood fuel ash in forests following proper treatment to prevent nutrient
deficiency.
7.    Monitoring. On the basis of current Ministry of Environment practices and the
recommendations for monitoring activities included in the Sectoral Environmental Assessment, a
monitoring program would be conducted by the Ministry of Environment at both the national and
local level. The environmental monitoring programs currently in place in Estonia are sufficient to
provide the basic monitoring data for the proposed program. The Environmental Information Center,
of the Ministry of Environment, is responsible for data collection concerning the state of the
environment. A basic Nature Management Geographical Information system (GIS) has been
developed which includes data layers on water and air pollution sources and forests. Costs for
financing the monitoring programs associated with the proposed project should be supported by both
the basic budget of the Ministry and by environmental fees collected for fuel harvesting, combustion
and ash disposal from parties engaged in these activities.
8.    The monitoring required for the control of wood and peat harvesting activities as well as air
quality and ash disposal is the responsibility of regional environmental offices. The content and
extent of the monitoring in forest and peatland areas where harvesting activities are conducted, and
emission monitoring at boiler plants, must be approved by regional environmental offices, and in
certain occasions also by national environmental authorities. Monitoring activities are a routine
element of their current work programs. However, due to the increased utilization of peat and wood
fuels, the scope of these activities would need to be expanded. In order to accomplish this objective,
the proposed program would support the training of personnel from the regional environmental offices
in environmental monitoring and enforcement activities related to the proposed program. Given that
many of the routine environmental monitoring actions require the collection of data and cooperation
of those responsible for fuel harvesting, combustion and ash disposal, the project would also support
training of representatives from these interests in environmental management and monitoring.
Measures would also be taken to strengthen local air quality monitoring capacities.
9.    This plan may be modified following completion of the planned review of the Estonian
environmental monitoring system to be conducted with support from the EU PHARE Program and the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) in the near future.






ANNEX9
Page I of 7
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILfTATION PROJECT
Tartu District Heating Financial Analysis
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    Heat Demand - The beat supplied to the end-user.
2.    Heat Losses - Estimated at 20% as of 1994 and thereafter.
3.    Heat Production - The level of heat production required to meet the heat demand and the
losses in the DH network system. The increasing production levels in 1994-96 are due to the
expected better level of service to be provided to customers and to adjust for normal temperatures.
Decreasing production levels in 1997-98 result from efficiency improvements in the system. In 1999,
new development is expected thus the level of production increases.
4.    Energy Prices - Assumed to increase by the rate of domestic or foreign inflation, depending
on the type of fuel.
INCOME STATEMENT
1.    Operating Revenue - Heat demand x the tariff (calculated both including the VAT on fuels,
goods and materials, which is the current regulation, as well as excluding VAT to illustrate the impact
of the VAT on the tariff).
2.    Operating Expenses
2.1    Fuel - Calculated as quantity x price of fuels.
2.3    Salaries and Benefits - Assumed to increase each year by the estimated rate of domestic
inflation. In addition, in 1994, an increase of EEK 500,000 is added to reflect the increase of
employees in the Anne Soojus DH Company.
2.4    Goods and Materials - Assumed to increase each year in proportion with the level of
production and the estimated rate of domestic inflation.
2.5    Maintenance - Estimated to increase by the 3-4% each year as of 1994.
2.6    Other Expenses - Expected to increase by the rate of domestic inflation each year.
2.7    Value Added Tax (VAT) - 18% on fuels, goods and materials, no longer reimbursed as of
January 1, 1994.



ANNEX-9
Pagye 2 of 7
2.8    Depreciation - Estimated at 7% of fixed assets (revalued) during 1994. As of 1995,
depreciation is estimated at 5% of average fixed assets. The project fixed assets are estimated to have
a life of 20 years.
2.9    Government Operating Subsidy - Discontinued in August 1993.
2.10   Profit Tax - 35% through 1993 and 26% from 1994 and thereafter.
SOURCE AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1.    Debt Service Terms
1.1    EBRD
Interest: 10.25%, Maturity: 10 years, Grace: 3 years (first principal payment in 1997)
1.2    World Bank Rehabilitation Loan -
Interest: 12%, Maturity: 3 years, No grace period
1.3    BITS Energy Project - Assumed to cover 90% of project cost (excl. VAT/duties)
Interest: 10%, Maturity: 15 years, Grace: 5 years (first principal payment in 1999)
1.4    Domestic Loan -
Interest: 30%, Maturity: 1.5 years, Grace: 1.5 years
1.5    Vattenfall Loan -
Interest: 0%, Maturity: 5 years, No grace period
1.6   Project Loan - (Energy Project)
Interest: 15%, Maturity: 5 years, Grace: 1 year
BALANCE SHEET
1.    Fixed Assets - for 1992-94, amounts are based on revalued assets. In 1995 and thereafter
(until 1998), amounts also reflect the project assets as they are commissioned.
2.    Work-in-Progress - As of 1995, amounts reflect project costs including design and supervision
during the project and VAT.
3.    Accounts Receivable - Estimated at 45 days.
4.    Advances - Estimated at 4% of fuels utilized in production.
5.    Inventories - Represents 6 months of goods and materials as of 1994 and thereafter.
6.    Retained Earnings and Reserves - Prior year balances increased by the annual surpluses.
7.    Accounts Payable - Estimated at 3 months of goods and materials.



Page 8of?
TARTU DSTIT   blEATN  COMPANY
COMBINE  OPER^ATION
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PR WJECTON
Aclual~--         -                 Ea1lImalied-
tee2     assa      1es04     IeNS      is        In?       loee     lowe
HEAT:
Heat Dand (GWb)                                       353       627       *17      S17       oe        SW.       U
System Loe(%)                                         1s        1 s        0        3        20        20        20
etem Los (GM)                                                   3 a0     16t       156     1O        160       171
Total Heat Produoton (GM)                   407       422       eo        7m       m         7S9       7S0       04
Supplbd by bobrhous (OV%):
Turu                                       300       210       406       364       U.       313       313      3S7
Luunja                                       0         0        *0       20t      22m       22a       228       22
Tuge                                        2mt       22        26        t1       31        st        e0        me
AudIm                                       34        26        0o        02       02         a        so        e
TubI                                        41        41        24        J0        o         9a      2m         so
Ropka                                       go        49        as        U3       o3        7         7s        92
Total Supply (GM)                           497       422       020       773       773      736       731       a4
Suppted by Fuele (OVA):
am  487  422       380       806       164       17n       173      830
Heay Fuel Ol                                 0         0        e16      280      164       178       17n       230
Ufllbd Pet                                   0         0                 203      22a       22m       228       m
Sod Pea                                      0         0        10        63       U3        79       7r         so
WoodChips                                    0         0        21        75       76        76        7t        75
TOW Supply (Ga)                             487       422       6n        773      773       730       736         4
Quanthes of Fuel hr Heat Production:
a" (o000  iS) a)                        36.080    50,941    47,424    24069   23.400       1.548    21.53    V8725
Hey Fuol 06 (tone) bJ                     soS    1e,e1    20,100    21,116   1ass       12sa4    U11,214    MG,668
MiUbd Peat (on) oI                           0         0         6    50,413 s   1,S341   93,36    99,646    30,346
Sod Pe (tons) di                             0         0     3410    2.347    2e.47    87,4056    VA406    31,760
Wood Chips (ks nmS) *e                       a         0    32.812   117,1J7   117.187   117.1S7   117,137   117.187
ENERGY PRICES AND TAFFFt (bed. VAT * transportatio to bolte houes)
HeavyFuel01 (EEK/metrcton)                           1,60o     1,120    1.14f     1.17      180=6     1,236M    1,267
Gm (EEK/touand nm3)                                  1.325     1,120    1.141     1,177     1.206     1.23      1,267
Milled Pot(EEK/ton)                                   130       100       111      121       13t       141       152
Sd Pe (EBt(ton)                                       263       210       233       86t      274       2U.       320
Wood Chip" (EamCn)                                      0        42        47       61        U         es        64
Avg. Heat Taff (EEK/MV)                               as.       22tt      210       242      26        260       285
Industrial                                  *t       1J3
RIential                                    60       137
al Aumn  6.2 IVA we produoed by 1,000 mS d lga x .9 ffbiency fator.
b/ Assumne  M11  MVA Is produced by a ton of heavy fuel ol x .U0 eIency fatoro.
ot Asumes L.7 MM I produoed by a ton of melNd pet (60% motstuto oonent x .  efficlency feotor.
di Aemee 34 bVA Is produced by 1 ton of od peat (35% woolture content x.U efficienoy fator.
el Assume 0.6 OVWh Is produced by IS (km.oo  volume) of wood chipe (60% moistuto oonant) x . effcency
fmot.



ANNEX O
Pape 4 of?7
TARTU DI8Ti-CT HEATING COMPANY
COMBINED OPERATION8
INCOME STATEMENT8 FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(EEK '000)
-MtueJ-         -               EsthWated
1902     1993      lw       1996     1906      1997      199      1999
Heat Demand (CWh)                                   359      627       t17      617      6U9       589       t83
Heat Tariff CEEKV) ntoL VAT)                        168      228       210      242       2U       260       296
Heat Triff (EEK/MdWh) (9xof VAT)                             196       187      216       237      237       266
Forelgn nflaon (%)                                            2.6      25        2.5      2.6       2.       2.6
Domtiolnflatlon(%)                     1,069.0      S.0      15.0     11.0       9.0      6.0       6.0      6.0
Exchange Rate (EEto )                                        13.6     13.5               13.5      13.5     136
OPERATIN REVENUES
Nat Hot Rvenuo                          33,044    75,160   120,16t  129,570   149.314   161,962   163.140  201,D544
Total Operating nom                   33,044    75,160   120,166  129,670   149,314   161,962   163,140  201,644
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel                                    27,163    656,17   77,731    74,772    76.103    74,04t    76,303    97,731
Sal8bles nd Benefit                      3,141    7,019     8,672    10,016    11,416    12.,29    14.356    16,004
Goods and MaterIal                        625     2,574    4,349    6.62      6,161    tt,362    6s,6     8,694
Mabntenano                               2,418    61,349    6,300    6,500     6,760    7,000     7,260    7,600
Other                                     113       370      426       472      516       566       600      60
VAT                                                        14,774   14,476    14,607    14,t34   16,329   19,139
TotalOperatingExpnees                 33,360    81,629   112,162  111,U87   116,762   116,319   122,00    149,616
Nat Operatng  ome before                 (30      (6,669)    8,004    17,663   33,662    36,643    30,441    61,926
Depteiation & hntrnet
Depredation                             217      1,t6t    2,964    4,718    6,176     9,48     10,520    11.266
Nat Operating Inown beltor hntert         (623)   (,626)    6,040   lZ26    26t384    26,165   19,912   40.663
Itnrnet aon Bomrlge + other              1t9     2,046     1,533    8,976    13,313    17,179   1S,206   It,624
Not Operating inoom                       (a9    (10,671)    3,607    3,960    12,071    8,976    1,707   22,139
Govt HotOperatingBubeldy                 872    9,161         0         0        0         0        0         0
Nat Incom  before Tax                      160   (1,410)    3,607    3,960    12,071    8,976     1,707   22,139
Profi Tax (35%, 26%)                     293         0      912    1,027    3,138      2,334      444    5,766
Extraordinary Gains (Lo)es)                6)
Nai nmcnme aft Tax                        (39)   (1,410)    2,696    2023      8,933    6,642     1,263   16,383
_....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... ............... .............._.



ANNEX 9
Page Saof 7
TARTU DISTRICT HEATIN COMPANY
OOMBINED OPERATIONS
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(EE '000)
Eatlehd      -
1904     196      19W      1997     1sse      1999
SOURCES
Inlem  Source
Net OpatIng Ice bebicelInst                                6,040    12,s2e    25,364   26,165    19,912   40,662
Dgprcstan.                                                 2,964    4.766    8.176     9,4      10,629    11,266
Totel Intn  Scure                                         6,004    17.683   33,602   36,643   30,4I   61,6
ERC Emeeiy Eberwy Loon                                    10ooo    13,000
mr* Eng, Pro9 lt Loon                                     40,940    80o,6    20,086    12,654    12,962
Lam cr Oce"ron of Tug&aeAedk                               1,000
Veflenlal LOn                                              4,000
Oew Pceaot Laws                                            ,601    12,709    3,123      1,875    1,934
Totel BorowIngs                                          64,441   106,3s0   23.189    14,629    14,866       0
TOTAL SOURCES                                            n44s   124,082    6,761       0,17n    46,327    51,926
APPLUcATON
Conemadon Requbement
pi                                                        45,489    89,686    22,290   14,080    14,391
OO,rOnMgonPojt                                            17,000    13,000
P,ar Pie                                                                      3,000    4,000    4,000
Tota Conesnucdon Prjcts                                  62,489   102,866   215,29    16,060    18,391       0
VATAOutis on Pret                                           1,962    8,743       693      489      496
PrcdTex                                                      912    1,027    3,136    2,334        444    6,786
E-RD - Inteet                                              -        -         -        2.308    2.0O0     1,794
- -ci                                                   -         -        -         2,600    2,600    2,600
V*uldmW k Rehab Lo - nteet                                   116       73        30        0         0        a
- pitno                                           367      367       367
MM Eerwy Loan - Intere                                     1,024     6,129    13,166   14,602    16,083    16,730
- pipal                                                                                          16,730
Domwell oLam- ntnree                                         160      300         0
-    -pw*                                                              1,000
Vsnentl Lan - Inter.                                                    0         0        0         0        0
--       6pd00 g                                                        00       600       600      800
Proe Low - In                                                244      477       117       70       73         0
- prIncipa                                                    3,260     9,606    7,916    2,499    1,906
Tol Debt SevbI                                            16&90    13,385   26,075   26,396   24,004   40,459
Increse (Dre) In Wwkn g CaIsa                               6,292    2,401     2,617      264      322    7,112
TOTAL APPLICATION                                       73,634   123,302   86,919   49,622   43,656   63,327
....... .......... .__...... ........ .. __ ........____ .. .. ___...... _
Surplu Fund.                                               (1,069)     780.    (166)      660     1,671    (1,399)
OptI_h  Cubhblec                                            1,99       068     1,66     1,6t1   2,1t8      3,840
Cosing Ctsh Balnce                                            906     1,686    1,651    2,166     3,840    2,441



ANNEXOS
Pap s o 07
TARTU DSRICT HEATING COMPANY
COIBINED OPERATIONS
BALANCE SHEETS AT YEWA ENDING DECEMBER 31
cE '000)
-Actual----                          Eilnmated
t1g2    tos        1004     l906      1        1907      lmS      1900
ASBETS
Fbxed Assets
oss Fbxd Asts,                          6,306   30,274   3a,207   160,908   176,201   20D,326   217.64   232.740
Less: A nculeasd Dspron                 1,61      3,747    6,711    11.406    10.644   29,132   39,611   60,926
Not Fbod Assets                        3,504    36.627    32,666   130,42   166.557   174,193   176,193   161,614
Work-4n-Progress                           36       23    64,441    69,229   60,126   61.60    66,567    41,001
Totl FbIed Assts                       3.640    36.660    97,027   198,671   216.882  226,723   234,080  223.615
Long-Trmt Investments                       36        0         0        0        0         0         0        0
Currnt Assets
Cmh and Bonk Nofte                      4,446     1,996      906    1,666    1,516     2,1U      3,640     2,441
Acoounts Reosvable                     13,220     9,062    16,020    16,196   16.664    16,996   19.143    26,193
Advanes                                     5     2.670    3,026    2,113    2,036      1,021    1,'0      2,607
Irventorls                              4,44      6.636    2,175    2.626    3.060     3,176     3.430    4,207
Othr                                    2,176        4     1.000    1,200     1.400     1,600    1.600     2000
Total Currsnt Assts                   24.314    20.266    22,126    24,022   26.60   27,60    30.161    36627
TOTAL ASSETS                          27.02    66,606   119.162  222,03   243,360   263,53   26420   260.s42
EUlRY AND UABUILES
EOUNTY
Cap=t                                   4,047    33.790    33,790   33,790   33,,700    3,790    33,790   33,790
Capital RPAsve                          0,711     1.2      1,626     1.626    1.2       1,626    1,626     1,6
Retained EwnIngs and Rservo.             (340)    6,668    6,263    11,206   20,13V    26,781    28.044    U.427
Total Equky                           13.416   41,116    43,710   48.633    66.66    62206    63.471    79,664
Long-Tnrm Debt
iaJ Bank 1                                        1,070      713      367         0        0         0        0
EBIR                                                 0    12,000   26,000    26,000   22,600    20,000    17,500
Word Bank MIITS                                           40,940   121,U61   141,067   164,361   167,30   160.576
Vafal Loan                                                 4.000     3,200    2,400    1,e00       500        0
DmestIc Loans                              0               7,601    16,969    9.477    3,436     2,672      967
Tota Long-Term Loan                        0     1.070    66,164   167,146  176.574   161,847   190,974   169,040
Current LinbISa
Accounts Payable to Suppilbs            7.713     3,317    1,087    1,413     1.640     1,6m     1.716    2,148
Advances                                 426     4,296    4,600    4,600      4,700    4,600    4,900      6.000
Short-Term Loans                                  3,260    1.900
Otdor                                   6,336     2,726    2,800     2,900    3,000    3,100     3,200    3,300
Total Current UebWnl                  14,474    13,621    10,287    5,913    9,240    9,486     9,16    10.44
TOTAL EQUITY AND UABILITIES           27,52    66,606   119,162  222,693  243,U30   263,63   264,260  269,342
....... .......... ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... ........... ... ...... ... ...... ... ...........



ANNEX 9
Pago 7 of 7
TARTU DSRFCT HEATING COMPANY
CONS)OLIDATED OPERATIONS
RATIOS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMAANCE
-Aotuel----        -                  Eetimatted
1992     1903      19"4      1996      19o      1997      19"       1999
OVERALL GROWTH
Gowth In Hea Produation (%)               -           (15)      47        26         0         (4)       0        16
Oowthhn HotDemand (%)                     -         -           47        17         0         (5)       0        le
LXUOIDITY
Current Abes/Curlmnt Liabitles               1.7      1.6       2.2       2.7       2.9       2.9      3.1       3.6
Quick AmataCurrent  Lilebe                   0.3      0.1       0.1       0.2       0.2       0.2      0.4       0.2
OPERATIG PEWOrOAANCE
Operating EV neesl/Ravnues ()               101       109        93       8         76        77        80        74
PROFIBUU1rY
Retumrn oGmeelx ed sse(%)                 -           3.4       3.1       1.4       0.9       0.8      0.7       0.9
RetumonNotFbmd Ae s(%)                    -           3.9       3.6       1.6       1.0       0.9      0.9       1.1
Retum on Capital ()                       -           2.2       3.6       3.8       4.4       4.6      4.5       8.0
Retum on Equity (%)                       -           1.8       2.7       2.6       2.7       2.4      2.4       2.6
DEBT, FNANCIAL LEVERAGE
Debt Sen. Coverage                        -         -           4.2       1.3       1.3       1.3       1.3      1.3
hnterest Coverage                         -         -           6.2       2.0       2.6       2.1       1.7      2.8
Long-Term DebtEquity                      -         -           1.6       3.6       3.2       2.9      3.0       2.1
RECEVABLES
Reoeiabb/Annual Amounte Due (DW*)           144        47        46       46        46        46        48        45



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 7
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Parnu District Heating Financial Analysis
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    Heat Demand - The heat supplied to the end-user
2.    Heat Losses - Estimated at 22.4% as of 1994 and thereafter.
3.    Heat Production - The level of heat production required to meet the heat demand and the
losses in the DH network system. The increasing production-levels in 1994 and 1995 are due to the
expected better level of service to be provided to customers and to adjust for normal temperatures.
Decreasing production levels in 1997 and thereafter result from efficiency improvements in the
system.
4.    Energy Prices - Assumed to increase by the rate of domestic or foreign inflation, depending
on the type of fuel.
INCOME STATEMENT
1.    Operating Revenue - Heat demand x the tariff (calculated both including the VAT on fuels,
goods and materials, which is the current regulation, as well as excluding VAT to illustrate the impact
of the VAT on the tariff).
2.    Operating Expenses
2.1   Fuel - Calculated as quantity x price of fuels.
2.3   Salaries and Benefits - Assumed to increase each year by the estimated rate of domestic
inflation.
2.4    Goods and Materials - Assumed to increase each year in proportion with the level of
production and the estimated rate of domestic inflation.
2.5    Maintenance - Estimated to remain at the 1993 level during 1994 and to increase by the rate
of domestic inflation each year thereafter.
2.6    Other Expenses - Expected to increase by the rate of domestic inflation each year.
2.7    Value Added Tax (VAT) - 18% on fuels, goods and materials, no longer reimbursed as of
January 1, 1994.



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
2.8    Depreciation - Estimated at 7% of fixed assets (revalued) during 1994. As of 1995,
depreciation is estimated at 5% on average fixed assets. The project fixed assets are estimated to
have a life of 20 years.
2.9    Government Operating Subsidy - Discontinued in August 1993.
2.10   Profit Tax - 35% through 1993 and 26% from 1994 and thereafter.
SOURCE AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1.    Debt Service Terms
1.1    World Bank Rehabilitation Loan -
Interest: 12%, Maturity: 4 years, No grace period
1.2    EBRD-
Interest: 10%, Maturity: 7 years, Grace: 3 years (first principal payment in 1997)
1.3   EIB Energy Project - Assumed to cover 100% of.project cost (excl. VAT/duties)
Interest: 10%, Maturity: 15 years, Grace: 5 years (first principal payment in 1999)
BALANCE SHEET
1.    Fixed Assets - for 1992-94, amounts are based on revalued assets. In 1995 and thereafter
(until 1998), amounts also reflect the project assets as they are commissioned.
2.    Work-in-Progress - As of 1995, amounts reflect project costs including design and supervision
during the project and VAT.
3.    Accounts Receivable - Estimated at 60 days.
4.    Advances - Estimated at 10 days of heavy fuel oil purchases, paid in advance.
5.    Inventories - Represents 3 weeks of fuel and 3 months of goods and materials during 1994-95,
and 4 weeks of fuels and 6 months of goods and materials during 1996 and thereafter.
6.    Retained Earnings and Reserves - Prior year balances increased by the annual surpluses.
7.    Accounts Payable - Estimated at 30 days of goods and materials, 45 days of oil shale and 20
days of peat and wood chips.



ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
PARNU DISTRICT HEATING COmPANY
KEY ASSUMPrIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
-A otua u----   -               -                Estimaed-
1991     10o2      1903      l9o4     166        1990      1997     1936      IM
HEAT:
Heat Demand (GYh)                         181.9    11.14     120.7    114.5      16.7    184.7    184.9    1830         181.2
System Losses (%)                         34.2     34.2      21.1      22.4      22.4      22.4      22.4     22.4      22.4
System Losese (AWh)                      94.4      88.9      42.7     44.5       S2        1.        1s2      127       82.2
Heat Productlon (OW1h)                   270.4    172.3    113.4    199.0        240.5    240.8    238.1    236.7    233.4
Supplied by Bollerhouses (3Wh):
Pawnu                                    160.8    106.1    117.9    154.1       151.2    180.2    188.2    187.3    10864
Tervbs                                   70.6      30.8      24.8      30.5      61.3      51.3      49.9     48.4      47.0
Ntldu                                    48.0      38.4      20.7      14.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other Smal HOBD                        n.e.     na.           0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Supply (OWh)                        276.4    172.3    163.4    190.0       240.8    240.1    238.1    235.7    233.4
Supplied by Fuele (3Wh):
Heavy Fuel O1                            276.4    11U.9    104.1    1190.       107.1    103.       101.1     98.7      96.4
Onl shale Oil                              0.0     16.4      16.3      79.6       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Sod Peat                                   0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       WS       91.3      91.3     01.3      91.3
Wood Chips                                 0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      66        467       437      46.7      41.7
Total Supply (t3h)                        276.4    172.3    1SS.4    199.0       240.5    240.6    228.1    2257        235.4
Ouantltles of Fuel for Heat Productlon:
Heavy Fuel Ol(metrte tons) at         28,907.0  16,0.0  10.823.  112.70.8   11,666.3  11,2341   w0,73.6  110711   104335
Oil Shale Oil (tone) b                    0.0  11871.0   6.70   9,0.0.6           0.0       6.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Sod Pea tons) el                           0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0   24,448.5  33.676A   3,578A4  33,M.4  332,.4
WVood Chips (nS) di                        0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0  103,906.2  71.364.2  71.3142  71,254.2  71,354.2
ENERGY PRICES AND TAWIFFS: (ncl. transportatlon to be4br houses)
Heavy Fuel Ol (EEKimetrto Son)                               1,000     1,100     1,128     1.166     1.1"     1,214     1,246
Oil Shale Oil (EEKton)                                         6r       900      1,066     1,182     1.24      1,36     1,463
Sod Peat (EK/ton)                                              1E0      140        1N       16S9      113        96      212
Wood Chips (EEKlnmS)                                                     32         0        Js        42        46       49
Avg. Heat Tariff (EEKIJWh)                           113       224      235        936       245      266       270       317
a! Assumew 11.1 UIlVvh I produced by I ton of heavy fuel oil x . effIloIncy botor.
b/ Aseumee 10.3 MWh Is produwod by I son ofl  shal bdx .68 efficiency factr.
of Ausumes 3.4 UMVh I produoed by I ton of sod peat (36% moisture ocnt*nt) x .8 effiency fato.
di Aesumes 0.8 MWh Is produoed by I nS mboee volume) of wood chIp (S0Y moisture contenO x.6 efIIe
fator.



ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 7
PAPNU DISTRiCT HEATING SYSTEM
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
cEm( '000)
-Actual-                            Eat-- i ed
19i2     low      1W94     lo"                1996 lOS  lo       lw
Heat Doend (GMt)                                 111.4    120.7    164.1     1647    1.7    1t4.9    13O    151.2
Heat Triff (ESElMV) (Inol VAT)                    1t3      224      266       236      246       2t6      279      317
Heat Ttaif (EEKM) (eWi. VAT)                     -        -         236       207      22        246      266      202
Foreign infation (%)                                                 a6        26       2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6
DomtleInflation(%)                             1,000.0     6.       16.0      11.0      9.0      5O        O       .0
Eihange Rat (EEKt8)                                                13.60     13.50    12.50    13.60    13 50    13.60
OPERATING REVENUES
Not Heat Revenue                              18,496   27,096   40,943    43,579   46,74t   49,171    61.06t6  67.42
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fuel                                            16,936   21.469   22,956    20,64S   21.436   22,126   22.,t4   23.087
Salaris and 3endfibt                             1,269    2,704    3.110     3.462    t.7t2    4,0t3    4,23t     4.739
Goode and Materials                               340    1,348    1,964      2.316    2.M      Z230    2,207    2.1t5
Maintenanco                                               1,200    1,200     1,332    1.412    1,66i    1,693    1,629
Oter                                             1,412     61?      940      1,043    1,137    1,225    1,22=    1,402
VAT                                                                4,496     4,130    4.267    4,384    4,613    4,663
ToW Operating Expensoe                        18,986    27,626   34.713    32920   34,326   36,698   36,992   31,600
Net Operating Inoomn belore                       (400)    (432)   6,229    10.969   11,422    13.673   14,066   18.926
Deproton & hntwrt
Deprecation                                      53    1,263    1,954      1.9t6    5421    4.594    4.996    6.163
Net Operatng Inoer bewreioInterest               (63)   (1,715)   4,276      1.911    4,001    5.979    9,069   13,7t3
Interest Inoom                                             2t        0         0        0         0        0        0
Interest on Borrowings                           112    1,042    1,909      5.014    6,361    sILS    7,901    6,832
Not Operatng inoonw                               (66    (2,731)   2,366     3.9      1,060    2.173    2.039    4631
OGcv'tHeatOperatingSubidWy                      2,604    2.822       0         0        0         0        0        0
Net inme balr Tax                                1,939      91    2.38      3.978    1,.60    Z173    2,039    5,631
Profit Tax (36%, 26%)                            626       26      616      1.084     420       6t6      6t0    1,77t
Exraordinry Gains (Loeae)                          6        (70)      0         0        a         0        0 °
Not hime afer Tax                                1,065       (4)   1,761     Z943    1,221    1,606      1,060    6,066
_....... .......... ....... ........... ........ ............ ....... ...................... ... ...... 



ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 7
PAIMU DISTC  HEATI   SYSTE
SOURCE ANM APPUCATKSNS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FOR YEAS ENDING DECEMtIE  31
(EEK 000)
1W64     16w         16       1o7      16s       166
SOURCES
Internal Sources
Net Operating iom  before Interest                                   42M        D,W1      6.001    5,675     61111   13.7
DepreciatIon                                                          1,964     1,6        .412    4,64      4.66      5.1,6
Total Internal Sources                                              6,221     10,666    11.422    13,73    14K06o     1,6,9
Borfowings
EBRD Emergency Energy Loan                                           slow
E8 Energy Project Loan                                              24,375     24,116     3.561    6.480
Other                                                                    0          0         a        O
Total Borrowings                                                   31,514    24,116      3.61    640            0        0
TOTAL SOURCES                                                       35,043    31,07S    26,313   20.06M    14,066    1662
....... .......... .... ..... _ .---.............. ---.- ............. .... ....._
APPUCATIONS
Constructlon Requirernents
Project                                                             24,575     24,116     6,861    6.480
Other On going Projects                                              6,51
Future Projects                                                                                     1.000    5,000     1.00O
Total Construction Projects                                         31,614    24,116     4,891     7.40 5D,000        1.000
VAT/Dutle on Project                                                   1,100     1,114       667      16          0         0
Debt Setvie
VVrld BSk Relhab. Projet - intref                                      640          7       al         S         0        6
- prindpl                                               2,611      2,611     2,011     2,611
EBRD     - intret                                                      347        ON4       64       a"4       m        46
- pidnpal                                                                                      61       So1       W1
EIS     -interest                                                     6l        3,666     1S.44     6,112    SAW       6A
- prinipal                                                                                                      GAN
Other - Interst                                                          0          0         0        0         0         0
- principal                                                         237                                                 0
Total Debt ServIe                                                   4,757      7,26      $.n66    10,466    0,022    14.360
Prolft Tax                                                              616      1,034      426       66        GU0     1,776
inomanee(Dscrsm)In WorkingC apItl                                      1,1i0     1,012     1,2J2      63        26t2    1,001
TOTAL APLICATIONS                                                  39,407    34,902    20,071    16,148    13A84    16.187
Surplus Funds                                                         (1.423)      13       242        o7       2J2      786
Opening Cash Balano                                                  2,166        76       o        1,160    2,067     2,516
Closing Cash Balance                                                    765        on      1,1       2,0J7    2,619     3,07x



ANNEX 10
Page 6 of 7
PARNU DIfTRICT HEATING COMPANY
BALANCE SHEETS AT YEAtS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(EEK 'oo)
Estiated
1992     1963     1904      low       low      197      t9ow      1999
ASSETS
Flxed Assets
Gross Fixed dAues                               21,712   26,821    29.016    49,e64   67,150   96,607   103,260  103,260
Lses: Accumulaed Depreciation                   6,66      7,626    9,760    11,748   16,1S9   19,766   24,760   29,922
Net Fbixd Assets                               16.116    16,906   19,236    37,966   71,9t0   76,644   76,491   73,320
Work-4n-Progrevs                                  119    2,196   32,914    37,476    0,449    7,644    6,001    7,001
Total Fixd Assets,                             16,236   21,190   62,160    76,412   61,439   64,408    84,492   S0,329
Long-Term investments                                0        0         0         0        0        0         0        0
Curfent Assets
Cah snd Bank Notes                               2,782    2,186      766       966    1,160    2,007    2,319    3,07t
Accounts Recelvble                              6,427    4,96    6t,S24      7,313    7,624    6,196    8,610    9,672
Advances                                         1,204     S09       396       366      361       361      361      362
Inventorles                                      1,930    1,4S2    1,802      1,770    2,786    2,817    2,8t2    2,913
Other                                               4      469       260       275      300       326      350      376
Total Current Asets                            10,777    9,704    10,067    10,662   1220    13,7M6    14,408   1,300
TOTAL ASSETS                                   26,012   30,S94    62,207    S6,074   t3,m    t6,273   96,694   9K,629
....... .......... ....... ........... ....... .......... ........ ............... ................. ...............
EQUrTY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
CapItal                                          1,8"6    3,020    3,020      3,020    3,020    3,020     3,020    3,020
Capital Reserve                                    21        62       S2        62       62        62       62        62
Retaind Eamnings and Resesrvs                    1,066   16,011    17,762    20,706   21,992   23,6J4   26,042    30,095
Total Equity                                    2,963    19,113   20,e64    26,S07   26,020   26,666    26,144   33,200
Long-Term Debt
World Bank I                                             10,446    7,134      6,023    2611         0        0         0
EBRD                                                       237    6,919      6,039    6,939    6,948     4,966    3,966
EIG Energy Prolect                                           0   24.676    4t,991   67,St2   64,362    64,362   67,026
Domstic Loans                                       0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0
Total Long-Term Loans                              0    10,662   39,648    61,183   67,432   70,310   09,316    61,681
Current Liabillle
Accounts Payable to SuppIers                     9,316     731      1,26       60       60        63       732       773
Advanoces                                         1S        197      240       200      320       360      400      440
Short-TermLoans                                     0        0         0         0        0         0        0        0
Other                                             267      171       200       226      260       276      300      325
Total Current UabIltles                         9,691    1,0t0    1,696      1,114    1,229    1,326     1,432    1,638
TOTAL EQUrrY AND LIABiLrTES                    1Z664   30,S64    62207    8,074    m3,n    06,273   96,694   96,620
,,,,,,,  .......  .......  ........  .......  .......  .......  .......



ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
PANU DOITROT HATING COMPANY
RATICO OF FINANAL PEOROMANCE
u                 -Acta--              Estimated
106      IO        194      1W         low       1W       '106      1W99
OVERALL GOWrH
Growh  of Host Predulon)                          -            (36)       ()        22       21         e        (I)       (t)
OtwI odHoI Demand (%)                             -             0        2          21        0        (I)       (1)       (1)
Ourn.t Assew/Curront LlUbiltU                        1.1       0.6       5.*       0.9      10.0      10.4     10.1      10.0
Quick AssetalOurroni ULlnbW                          0.6      2L0        0.5       0.6       1.0       1.6      1.0       20
OPERATING PEFKORMANCE
Opatting EonslRenuea(%)                              102       102       SO        7r        76        72        72        67
PAOFITADILflY
Return on Oro"a Fbod Asts  )                      -            0 4       6.       10.1       2.4       2.4      2.0       6.6
Return on Net Fbed Assts (%)                      -            0.5      124       1a9        L0       2.9       2.6       9.0
Return on Capl ()                                 -             .0      70A      131.7      14.6     71.9      67.5    228.2
Return n Equity (1)                               -            0.6      11.3      16.7       6.6       6.2      7.2      20.6
DEBT. FWMANCLAL LEVERAGE
Debt ServiCoe  aga                                -         -            1.3       IA        1.3       1.2      1.6      1t3
Interest Covr                                     -         -            2.        2a        1.        2.0      20        2.7
Iong-TarrnO DbVEqulty                                                    1.9         a       z27       2.6      2.5       1.9
RECEIVABLES
RPoelvI WAnnusi Amounts Due (Days)                   106        a        *0         s0       60        0o        6o       0o



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 7
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tallinn District Heating Financial Analysis
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1. Heat Demand - The heat supplied to the end-user.
2. Heat Losses - Estimated at 20% as of 1994 and thereafter.
3. Heat Production - The level of heat production required to meet the heat demand and the losses in
the DH network system. The increasing production levels in 1994 and 1995 are due to the expected
better level of service to be provided to customers and to adjust for normal temperatures. Decreasing
production levels in 1996 and thereafter result from efficiency improvements in the system.
4.    Heat Purchased from IRU - It is assumed that the Tallinn DH company will purchase all of IRU's
production (net of losses).
5. Energy Prices - Assumed to increase by the rate of domestic or foreign inflation, depending on the
type of fuel.
INCOME STATEMENT
The financial statements have been prepared by consolidating the Municipal and Network Companies'
accounts. The income statement for 1992, however, reflects only the Municipal Company's activities,
since the Network Company's activities were not separately accounted for.
The income statement for 1993 is based on a whole year of actual data from the Municipal company and
6 months of actual data for the network company as they started operations as an independent company
July 1, 1993. This has been annualized by the World Bank with assistance from the Network company's
financial staff.
1. Operating Revenue - Heat demand x the tariff (calculated both including the VAT on fuels, goods and
materials, which is the current regulation, as well as excluding VAT to illustrate the impact of the VAT
on the tariff).
2. Operating Expenses
2.1 Fuel - Calculated as quantity x price of fuels.
2.2 Heat Purchased from IRU - Heat demand (from IRU) x the estimated required heat tartiff including
VAT, which IRU needs to charge to cover all operating expenses.
2.3 Goods and Materials - Estimated to increase each year in proportion with the level of production and



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 7
the estimated rate of domestic inflation.
2.4 Salaries and Benefits - Assumed to increase each year by the estimated rate of domestic inflation.
2.5 Maintenance - Estimated to increase by about 5% each year as of 1994.
2.6 Value Added Tax (VAT) - 18% on fuels, goods and materials, no longer reimbursed as of January
1, 1994.
2.7 Depreciation - Estimated at about 12% on the Municipal Company's fixed assets and about 7% of
the Network Company's fixed assets (revalued) during 1994. As of 1995, depreciation is estimated at
5% of the average consolidated fixed assets. The project fixed assets are estimated to have a life of 20
years.
2.8 Government Operating Subsidy - Discontinued in August 1993.
2.9 Profit Tax - 26% on net income before tax from 1994.
SOURCE AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1. Debt Service Terms
1.1 World Bank Energy Project - Assumed to cover 90% of project cost (excl. VAT/duties)
Interest: 10%
Maturity: 15 years
Grace pd: 5 years (first principal payment in 1999).
BALANCE SHEET
1. Fixed Assets - For 1992-94, amounts are based on revalued assets. In 1995 and thereafter (until
1999), amounts also reflect the project assets as they are commissioned.
2. Works-in-Progress - Amounts reflect project costs including design and supervision during the project
period and VAT.
3. Accounts Receivable - Estimated at 60 days.
4. Advances - Estimated at 1/3rd of fuels utilized in production, paid 2 weeks in advance.
5. Inventories - Represents 2 weeks of heavy fuel oil and shale oil, 3 months of coal and 1 month of
goods and materials at end-1994 and thereafter.
6. Municipal Capital Contribution - Represents the 10% local contribution to the project cost, contributed
by Tallinn Municipality as an equity contribution to the company.
7. Retained Earnings and Reserves - Prior year balances increased by the annual surpluses.
8. Accounts Payable - Estimated at 1 week of heavy fuel oil and shale oil purchases, 2 weeks of coal,
3 days of natural gas and 2 weeks of goods and materials.



ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 7
TALUNN D8TFtICT HEATING COMPANY
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Aaalu    -                       -      E  Estimated     -
1901     1902        1993      1994    1996       1006     1907      1996      1909
HEAT:
Heat Consumpton (QVh)                                1,Ut4      1,712    1,760    1,807     1,714     1.701    1,658     1.668
SyetfmLoosen(%)                                        10        20       20        20       20        20        20       20
Syte  Lose (GtM)                                      209       428      437       4C2      429       426       421      416
Hal Productlon(GWM)                                  2.003      2,140    2,167    2,269    2,143     2,126     2,104     2,082
HeatPurchmodtromIRU(tJ(G)                              910      1,036    1,148    1.148     1.146     1,145    1,148     1,148
Totd Heat supply (tWh)                               3,003      3,175    3,336    3,407     3,201     3,274    3,262     3,230
Supplbd by Bolerhouse (GW):
VWJ+Othefs                                            910      1,036    1.146     1,148    1,148     1.148    1,148     1.148
MunIipal CtH Company, Smal HOSe                       284       213      226       260       240      260       240      230
Network Company:                                    1,8t2      1,927   1,062     1,090     1,903     1,676    1.814     1.862
Ulemlste                                             463       400      741       778      706       703       696      e9s
Talinn                                               260        306       0         0         0        0         0         0
Mustsn                                               672       740        0         0        0         0         0        0
Kadeka                                               329       361    1,206     1,206     1,181     1,167    1,160     1,148
K    vraa                                             9s       104        0         0        0         0         0        0
Hllu                                                  17         16      1s        1s        le       16        16a       1
Total Supply (Gu)                                    3,003      3.176    3,336    3,407     3,291     3,274    3,262     3,230
Suppled by Fue (GfWh
Heavy Fuel Oil                                      2,63      2,790   2,9W6     2,973     2,888    2,861     2,860     2,838
Ught Fuol Ott                                           0         0        0         0        0         0         0         0
GM                                                    316       209      309       330       310      313       306      300
Shale 06                                               79        64       a         78        72       76        72        s9
Cool                                                   26        21       23        26       24        26        24       23
Tol Supply (GWA)                                     3,003      3,176    3,336    3,407     3,291    3,274    3,262      3,230
Quenltte of Fuel for Heat ProductIn:
Heavy Fuel Oil ftone) a                           212,66    212,734  311,214   316,114   306,746   303,276  302,024   300,774
LlghtFuelORl(tonu) bi                                   0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
GM ('000 m3) cl                                   160,880     73.660   39,476    42,167    39.6a0    30,974    39,182    36,369
Shale Oi (tons) d/                                   86t        6s     7,710     8,900     8,224     8,667    6,224     7,861
Coal (tone) *                                       2,279      2,279    4.664    6,274     4,868     6,071    4,86      4,656
ENERGY PRICES AND TARIFF& (ld trportaton lo bolr houne)
Heay Fuel OM (EKton)                                   80       1,061    1.000     1,026    1,061     1,077    1,104     1,181
Ught Fuel 0 (EBEtJon)                                603       2,000    2,060    2,101     2,164     2,20S    2,268     2,819
O   (EBE/OO m3)                                        480      1,127    1,130     1,16t    1,187     1,217    1,247     1,278
Shae 06 lECiton)                                       697       800      900       9we     1,089     1,176    1,270     1,372
Coal (EEM-ton)                                         100       496      400       410       420      431       442       463
IUJhatseeMngprbe (EEKUAW)(nol. VAT)                    129       224      160       171       180      180       196       206
Avg. Heat TarItff EEKAIMW) (ino VAT)                                      264       268       282      206       307       320
industrlal                                            230       200
ResIdentia                                           1S        209
al Aaumoe 11.1 MW   Is produoed by ISon of heavy fuel o x *.8 b efcency factor.
bl Aeumne 11.9 UWh b produced by I ton od Ight fuel oN x.86 effiloenoy fator
d! amue 0.2 MWh Is produced by '000 mS of gm x .86 *fflolbncy fa1o.
di Aaeunme 10. MWh Is produced by 1 ton of oil hale *o  x .85 efficiency far.
*1 Asumee 6. IWA Is produced by I ton of ood x .6 effkoency faoto.



ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 7
TALiJNN DISTINCT HEATING COMPANY
INCOME STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(EE '000)
AetuM                 -         Et ednwXd
1992       1005      1904    1N6       1996     1997      1998     1999
Host Demnd from Own Producton (GVi)                 1.84      1,712   1,760    1607      1,714    1,701     1,U63    1.666
HeatDemandfromPurchaedHas (GMW)                       10      1,035    1,148    1148     1        1,148     1,148    1,148
Toti Hoat Demand (GWh)                              z794      Z,747   2,608    2,966    2,s82    2,5U       2,831    2,614
Heat Trf (W     h) (Ind VAT)                          34       224      264      286      282       296      30?       320
Heat Twi (EUM1M) (sxd. VAT)                                             229      240      266       267      276      289
Foreign hnflatbon (%)                                                   2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6       2.6      2.6
Domestic Infaton (%)                                                   16.0      11.0      9.0      6.0       8.0      8.0
Exchange Rate (EEKO)                                                   13.6      13.6     13.6     13.6      13.6     13.6
OPERATING FVENUES
Net Heat RPenuo                                  63,167   66,197 736.990  788.083  807,197  840,396  860,178  900,382
OPERATINo EXPENSES
Fuel                                               20,129   336,089 364,588  362,917  379,332  387,487  394,646  402,300
Heat purchaod from IWU                             39,782    160,108  183,6o   196,306  206,640   216,072  225,008  236,340
MaterWIs and Goode                                   38      36,090  42,668   48,100   60,877   54,687   68,607   62,90
Salte. and Benenfh                                  3,403    24,824   28,648   31,688   34,640   37,303   40,287   43,610
Mainteaoc                                          2,610    19,000  20,000   21.000   22,000   23,000   24,000   26,000
Other                                                         6,168   7,000    8,000    9,000   10,000    11,000    12,000
VAT                                                                  73,258    77,609   77,438   79,803   81,637   83,764
Total Operating Expense                          6,212   579,230 719,660   765,702  770,628  809,062  83,474  684,902
Net Operaing ineom  before                         (3,046)   (11,042)  16,321   20,381   27,369   31,344   33,705   35,460
Deprekiaion A Interet
epreciatIon                                        204      6,361   13,475   14,069   15,664    18,148    19,587   19,838
NetOperatinghncomebefor lnterest                   (3,249)  (17,403)   2,647    6,313    11,866   13,196   14,117    16,613
ntereot Inhoeo                                                  0
Intemee on Bonowlng                                  39       24       340    4,006    8,242    10,166    10,602    10,703
Net Operating Income                               (3,268)   (17,07)  2,607    2,307    3,443    3,029    3,516    4,010
Gov'tHa tOperatingSubsldy                          6,177    20,694       0        0        0         0        0        0
Net Inom  before Tax                               4,680      2,067   2,607    2,307    3,443    3,029    3,616    4,910
Proi Tax (36%, 26%)                               1,711      0,U7      662      600      806       768      914    1,277
Extrordinary aeine (.oee)                            (34)
Not Inoome after Tax                               3,144     (,900)   1,865    1,707    2,4       2,242    2e,1      3,633
..._w"^"w ............................  .............. ....... .......... ....... .......... ....... ..............



ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 7
TALUN OTFCr HEATING COMPANY
SOURCES AND APPUCATONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS FOR YEAMS ENDIN6 DECEMBER 31
mK '000)
Estirrald --
1994    193w      196      1097      166     1099
80URCES
hntemal Sources
NotOpefatinginowmsbefore lntsr                                        2.847     6,316    11U.6    13,196    14,117    16,613
Deprektlon                                                           13,476   14,069    16,664    16,146    19,687    19,836
Totl Internal Souroe                                               16,321    20,361    27.369   31,344   33,706   36,460
Borrowings
World Bank Energy Proet Loan                                         13,605    62,908    31.600    6,688    2,020        0
Other                                                                     0        0         0        0        0         0
Total Borrowings                                                    13,OO6    62,90t    31,669    6686    2,020         0
Municipal Contributon to Project                                       2,366     8,640    6,197      9W        311        0
TOTAL SOURCES                                                       32,284    81,929    64,375    39,027   36.036    36,460
APPTIONS
Constnrotion Rsquirernents
Profect                                                              16,117   86,787    35,643     7,426    Z244
Other Ongdng Projects
Future P.oet                                                                    6.000    10,000    12,000   12,000    12,000
Total Construotlon Projects                                         1S,117    66,787   46,343    19,426    14,244    12,000
Prom Tax                                                                 682      6oo       6N6      786       914     1,277
VAT/Duties on Project                                                    684     Z761     1,663      266        87        0
Debt Service
World Bank Energy Projeot - hntret                                      340    4,006     6,242    10,166   10,602    10,703
- prInoipa                                                                                               9,632
Other- hntrent                                                            0        0         0        0         0
- prhncip                                                                                 0        0         0
Total Debt Servime                                                      40    4,006     8,242    10,166    10,602    20,638
Inorea  (Dmees) In Working Capital                                    21,897    7,622     1,723    4,062    3,472    4,069
TOTAL APPUCATIONS                                                  3,6862    11,7116  57,6646   34,696   29,319   37,880
... ........ ........_ .......  .......... .......  .......... .......
Surplus Funds                                                         Mm66)       2653    6809    4,336    6,717    (2,430)
Opening C_sh Balance                                                  16,344     8,776    9,029    16,838    19,677   26,594
Cboing Cash Blono                                                      6,776     9,029    16,838    19,877   26,694    24,164



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 7
TALLUN  DI6TFCT HEAThS OOMPANY
IALANCE SEErS AT YEARS ENDN DECEMBER 31
mm *000)
-Actual-            -    Es*na*d
ioog       1ees      1964    1006      Is".     1007      1908     19w
Fh.d Assets
G"o  P.d Asel                                     3,02   2886o6  273,6a  268,562  339.026  367.006  3o6,660  387,910
Les: Aoeumutmtd Depreciation                       1,2    142.502  156,977   173,048  1U,730  203,678  223,466  243,300
Net Fixd Asset                                   4,040    123,103  117,411  11,307  152,266  164,028   172,126   164,616
wrk-lr-progres                                     1,180     7,763   16,e0a   6,647   6768    37,662   44,329   64,000
Total Fbod Assets                                 6,229   130.866  133,374   168,684  220,176  221,710  216,484  208,816
Long-TeT nvenhminte                                    0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0
Current Asets
Cnh nd Snk Nots-                                   ,100     18,344    8,776    0,029   16,I88    10,877   26,604   24,184
Aounts Rsc.lrable                                26,270    170,066  122,666   131,014  134,833  140,088  144,8e3  160.060
Advnoe                                            6,66        191   4,861    4,841    4,837    4,940    6,036    6,131
hveontorite                                       1,802     14,334   18,240   17,321    17,480    18,U02    19,663   10,282
Othe                                                240     16,806  21,733   24,123   26.204   28,a36     30,6M7   33.123
Totel Current Am**l                             43,107    227,833  174,086   186,30   106,66   211,333  226,814   231,718
TOTAL ASSETS                                    48,336   368,716  307,436  376,223  418,658  433,043   442,267  440,374
........  ........... ....... ...........  ............ ....... .......... ....... ................................
EOUflY AND LAUES
E-UITY
Sta  Capta                                        1,960    70,062  70,002   70,002   70,062   70,062   70,062   70,002
Munlcipal Ct Contributon                              0         0   2,366   10,907   1m,166   17,193   17,604   17,604
stot Capia RPAeiw                                 1,886     16,760   16,780    18,760   18,780   18,780    16.780    18,780
Retined Eamnings and  serves                      6,168    112,662  114,407  116,114   118.682  120,003   12a5,06   127,136
TtaW Equty                                       0,031    201,424 206,637  216.063  223,726   226,666   220,681   233,614
Long-Tm Debt
Wmt Bank Enery Project                                              13,606   e6614    66,322   103,W0    107,027   97,196
DOeetic Lons
Tota Long-Tem Loan                                   0         0   13,06   66,614   66,322  106,006   107,027   97,196
Curent Lsdge
AcountsPayabl to Supp!                           33,781       80s   8,197      ,726    6,778    9,067    9,s36    90,8
Advnes                                            2,480    32,s3e  30,o00    32,000   34,000   36,000    36,000   40,000
Short-Tem Loan
Other                                                24    87,880  60,000   62,000   64,000   56,000   86,000    60,000
Total Ourrent Ube                               3s,25    167,266  88,167   02,726   966778   101,067   106,360  109,686
TOTAL EOUIrY AND LIABILITIES                    48,336   388,710  307,430  376,223  418,828  433,043  442,267  440,374
........   .......  ...    ...    ...    ...



ANNEX 11
Page 7 of 7
TALUM OIRT IEATN  CO PAW
PAT10 OPF FD*IJSA PWO024ANO
~± -
--Aokm&-~~~~                    1    1, -1                 1
OVEPALL GOW/rH
hwi In Pduoc ()                                                Z2        .2      S.3     (L1)      (DA)     (1.0)    (1.0)
OrwIh in DOm,d  )                                              4.1)    Z2        3.3      (61)      0)      (1."0)    (1.0)
0wrontre.wOunwtUebile                                 1.1       IA      2.0       LO      Zt        2.1      I1       2.1
Quick AmsiultCuwee LibIh                            0.2       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2       0.2      0.3      0.2
OPERAThO PEWCE.ANCE
Opwthg E_   1i-- (%)                                 106       102                S7       0?7       16      9U        e6
PRORrABLITY ()
PRmc on <r  Fbod AMe                                21a        4.2      Z7       2.L       Ls       2a       2.2      2.3
PARS3aon Not eaFbidMA"~                              1.         LS       .1       a        LO       L0       4.a      6.6
Ruman aom COu                                       81.3        6.1  10.2   a .7   e .4             9.e  as           10.3
Rmm n Equy                                           7.0        Ls      3A       LS        LO       3.7      S.       3.0
DEIT, FWANCAL LE9EP
Debt Serice Cwme                                                       4a.0      a1       3.S       &1       3.2      1.7
inhent Over                                                            48.0      Li        LS       31       8.2      3.3
Lon-Tom DebVtEquv                                                       0.1      oa       OA        OA       0.6      0.4
RPe blmjAnuad Auncn  Due (Deg)                                          so        do       so       so        so       so



ANNEX-12
Page I of6
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILTATION PROJECT
IRU Power Plant (Heat-Only Operations) Financial Analysis
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    Heat Demand - The heat supplied to the end-user
2.    Heat Losses - Estimated at 15% as of 1994 and thereafter.
3.    Heat Production - The level of heat production required to meet the heat demand and the
losses in the DH network system. The increasing production levels in 1994 and thereafter are due to
the expected better level of service to be provided to customers and to adjust for normal temperatures.
4.    Energy Prices - Assumed to increase by the rate of domestic or foreign inflation, depending
on the type of fuel.
INCOME STATEMENT
1.    Operating Revenue - Heat demand x the tariff (calculated both including the VAT on fuels,
goods and materials, which is the current regulation, as well as excluding VAT to illustrate the impact
of the VAT on the tariff).
2.    Operating Expenses
2.1   Fuel - Calculated as quantity x price of fuels.
2.3   Salaries and Benefits - Assumed to increase each year by the estimated rate of domestic
inflation.
2.4    Goods and Materials - Assumed to increase each year in proportion with the level of
production and the estimated rate of domestic inflation.
2.5    Other Expenses - Expected to increase by about 10% as of 1994 and thereafter.
2.6    Value Added Tax (VAT) - 18% on fuels, goods and materials, no longer reimbursed as of
January 1, 1994.
2.7    Depreciation - Estimated at 7% of fixed assets (revalued) during 1994. As of 1995
depreciation is estimated at 5% on average fixed assets. The project fixed assets are estimated to
have a life of 20 years.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of6
SOURCE AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT
1.    Debt Service Terms
World Bank Energy Project Loan - Assumed to cover 90% of project cost (excl. VAT/duties)
Interest: 10%
Maturity: 15 years
Grace pd: 5 years (first principal payment in 1999)



ANNE 12
Page 3 of 6
I 0OMBNUD MEAT AND POWER OOMPAY
KEY AUWPfO FOR FRANL PR tCOW
NEAT:
HCea OM M    PM )                             718               1,14        .                  1.148     1,148     1.148
_n. emL os.e%                                 18        16        16        18         16        16        15        16
Sln  Lo se. )                                127       162        a         Is         Is        is        is        IS
Ht Paduso*  (OVA)                             84      1,016     1,361      1.261     1.211     1.6       1"261     1,i11
Suppla d by Odsi QW)
CP Unil                                      290        u          0         0          O         a         a         e
CHPUStt2                                     lOt       410       270       870        7         8m        870       87
HOS.(3                                      436   6 72             1       Ut        ut         861       91 1      a
TOWsl supply (mi)                             88       1011      1261      1261       181       1861      1#1       1861
supplid by Fue (QW*
H_wy Fuel On                                 84      1.011     1,361      1.211     1.,61     1.81      1.,61      1261
Tol Supply MM)                                84      1.018      1,J61     1.261     1.861     1.1        1,1       1261
QCmnntee of Fuel br Ht Produodon:
Hevy Fuel 0l (mes W) W/                  101,100   100,732   142,882   142,2   142,2   142,88    14,88    142.
ENEOY PfCE  AND TAPFF (S:L VAT A rw.porleafn ta baler hoe.)
Hey Fuel 08 (EEAnlo bIon)                     8         116       917       940        So        IS8     1,012      1,868
vg. HoetTw  (EJM'M*                           104       180       IGO       171        180       18        1"        ON6
el Aveum_. 11.1 MVVh e produoed by  ton CE hev tual 8 x.77 eflalr_oy ttor
br tb CHP      e adcx .80 offhlenoy _om br HOSe.



I 'iii"'t    IIZxl II 1 II'
I i fX  I  r     j j      i *   '  t I if        
l~is      If 1O2t11                   §1;
|igll-    ltS ullilYi!  3o   8P Yitil 
|     5'   |18oX|g|     b        0    1
|    g|  I     ,|        S      |, |P £Y   i   I IW1    
|                     |SX;ss}} |         
|~    . | ~ -      !|#|t;   @yl          
I~~~~~~~~~a |                 'H           e|IYIXb      
i I~~~~L
a:1~~~~~~as1



ANNEX 12
Page of 5 of 6
VWU OOINWIUHT AMD              OOUPAIW
SIDUMM11Me APHUOAI        S GP PUMMDSTATE G FORt YRS  4OWS DECEMBER 31
1O       lwO       lt_       lw        1o6       16
SOURCES
lnlunalSu
Not OperaAng knocre bwo. Intnt                               1.162     5,617    4,022     6,136     8,740    11,442
Deprecition                                                  2.213     2,WO     3.90      6.611    0,623      6,923
Totlh kntwmi Souron                                         3.871     6,660    11,611   150U6   15,664    18,386
Wd Bonk Enwig Pioc LOu,                    n0                         647
Otef                                                            0         0
Total Borrowinp                                            16746    W.478          0         a         0         0
Esel Enrwgk Canlbudon Im, Prect                               1,M       SAM          0         0         0         0
TOTAL SOUCES                                               3         67e,106    11,661    15,06    15,064    16,366
Oon#Vuaftn PRqutennem
Prot                                                        151    5,1
Othe OngoIng P7*013
Pue,.. Project
Total Conetuodon Projets                                   15.661   5611,6         0         0         0         0
VATIDuts an Prot                                                47      1,376
Debt Seor
Wdd Bank - knteret                                            416      4,100     5.64      0,024    6,024     6,924
- p p                                                                                                   6.024
Other - Int
- prihape
Totl Debti So loe                                            416      4,06      slow      56,914    slow    13a.48
TOTAL APPUCATIONS                                         15.477    66,662     .0924     l.,24    6,@24    13,648



ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 6
NW PQ/ER PLANT - HEAT-ONLY-OPMTIOS
RA1TKI OF RNA AL P WO ANCE
_eh     ~     ~              bimad       -
tarn     tue      is"       in       t110     tw       118       lass
aSwu  hn Heat Pvod.um  (%)                                 (2.)       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
ewUh in Het De~d (%)                                       (24.5)     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
-INO I AE
Opweng Eq-peeeNW -                        124       U2       so        90       S4        so       s3       92
DEIIT, FANCIAL LE
Debt Sevle Oveve                                             8.0      2.0       1.7      2.2      2.3       1.3
hl&t Cwvqp                                                   8.0      2.0      1.7       2.2      2.3      2.7



ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING  E                         ITATICN PECT                                        ANNE 13
Page 1 of j§5
Econanic Analysis
Tabl 1: Calouldof NM rw bSw bgie r  Om u bo
ceo EUQ
--&-                                  -4kw&Mo-
Coeiveaow     hwrealwn                               Fue
OCnfudan    GIM            TOlW                       0s91                     Met
YWr         OC          Coat         Cost                      S 1e
I               Go             o     e   4e 14
2                             *0           es                      eI                         so
s                              oc          eo                       me                        130
4                             10            e                       IS                        250
ai                            so                                      o e                     2e
a                             ae           so                       we                        me
7                                           a                       noe                       nSo
8                              SO          eS                      ISe                        20
Rul C Relnt - 1
a                      s~~~~eo  aB
Tab t couiaUge of am   raal scpow          seme
Sold Fue                                                         Olld
Canovuodon    CIM          Fuel         TOWl                     onawmnt   FUel            Total                      Nei
Year        Coat        Coa          ca           oat                       oat          Coat         Cot 
? 40                                      me 100                                              641 '0                                 2u7m
a                             40          ne            me                                    me           s                        m2
4                             40          me            we                                    se    w       ea                      m2
4                             40          me           170                                    a            042                       22
*                             40                 m                                            on           on                        2e
7                             40          me            70                                    on           042                       272
a                             4e         Se           7e 20  m  me                            "a           042                      2e
e 4e                                      e  s         7e 20  m  an                           m1           me                        me
10                             4o          me            e                                    me           me2                       272
11                             40          me           me                                     e2          04a                      m2
12                             40          me           me                                      e            e42                     me
13                             40          me           me                                    me2           42                      m2
14                             40          me           me                                    "a           se2                      m2
1s                             40          se           me                                     at          042                      m2
I8                            4o           on           me                                      e           a2                      m2
RPA  of RSlm   10%
Ta b:l Kay MAfip    1w Cololtam of ER   1w brd Solar Pe
Fuel cot a p of at MW        tod ble e*a 1 A. _e     beten ol m l of W I 10M   d ETK  wooed_et do  of
EEK llMM  -1        SWa  E x l.000 heurla  ha qprdr reu  ha x p da   EEKW ll,0 e.
Fusl coat ofa new 1 MW bole weuig woodhpe eetbat_d aEEK SW   Vh x e0e1 houreEKw - M   000mee.yw.
Fuel oat of a nw 1 MW aol-ld boler ee*nsiod a EMK 1071MNW x 1000 hmrehpw - O     e.dOOA'aw.



TALLINN DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 1: Calculation of IERR
('000 EEK)
---Costs---- ----------------------- -------------------- Benefits--------- ------------------------------------------------
Increase    Reduced Heat Energy      Elec. & Fuel  Savings from  Savings of   Savings from
Construction  in Boiler    & Water Loss Savings In   Savings from    Water   Network      Culverts     Total         Net
Year       Cost        Efficiency    in Network   Substations  New Pumps  Treatment   Connection  Ventilation    Benefits     Benefits
---____ -_ ----- ------_ _ -- ----------_ - --- --------     ------------     - --- --------_ -------_ -- --_ _ --___ ----___ __ ___ ---_ ---___ ________ -_ _ -_ ---_____ - -
1             20,281           0            0            0            0         540             0           0          540      (19,741)
2             87,289        1,399           0        6,216          483        2,700         340         5,400      16,538      (70,752)
3             82,948        1,399        1,046      12,432        1,933        5,400        2,038        5,400      29,647      (53,301)
4             37,976        1,399        1,046      21,756        4,833        5,400        3,396        5.400      43,230        5,254
5             18,987        1,399        1.046      27,972        4,833        5,400        3,396        5,400      49,446       30,459
6                           1,399        1,046      31,080        4,833        5,400        3,396        5,400      52,554       52,554
7                           1,399        1,046      31,080        4,833        5,400        3,396        5,400      52,554       52,554
8                           1;399        1,046      31,080        4,833        5,400        3,396        5,400      52,554       52,554
9                           1,399        1,046      31,080        4,833        5,400        3,396        5,400      52,554       52,554
10                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
11                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
12                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
13                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
14                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
15                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5.400        3,396        5,400       52,554       52.554
16                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554      52,554
17                          1,399        1,046       31.080        4,833        5,400       3,396        5,400       52,554       52,554
18                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554       52,554
19                          1,399        1,046       31,080        4,833       5,400        3,396        5,400       52,554       52,554
20                          1,399        1.046       31,080        4,833        5,400        3,396       5,400       52,554       52,554
Rate of Retum - 23%
--------   ------------   ------------   ---------- -   ------------   ------------   ------------   ---- -------   ------------   ------------   -----------
U,



ANNEX 13
Page 3 of t$
TALLINN DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 2: Key Assumptions for the Calculation of IERR
Boller Efficiency Improvements: Including combustion controls at Kadaka plant and 02 analyzers for Kadaka,
Kesklinna, Mustamae and Karlamaa and other boiler plants (18 plants), with benefits from fuel savings
Benefits estimated from Improved boiler efficlency resulting In a savings of 12.6 GWh with an oil cost of EEK 11 11MWh
for a total savings of EEK 1,398,600/year.
Rebuilding Substations: Including heat exchangers, heat meters and other Improvements In Mustamae-Kadaka area
in about 1,051 substations
Savings from better regulation and measurement estimated at about 17% of heat demand or about 165 GWh/year with
an oil price of EEK 11 1/MWh results In savings of EEK 18,315,000/year
Large Substatlon Controls and Meters In Eastern Network: Including equipment for 33 large substations with controls
and heat meters
Savings estimated at 13% of heat demand or 115 GWh/year with an oil price of EEK 111/MWh results In savings of
EEK 12,765,000/year
Water Treatment Improvements: Including make-up water treatment plant to supply demineralized water to the system
and bypass filters to Kadaka, Mustamae, Karlamaa, Ulmeiste and Keskelina boiler plants
Savings estimated at EEK 5,400.000/year from longer lifetime and lower maintenance costs
Variable Speed Pumps and Control: Including Installation of variable speed pumps at Kadaka, Karjamaa and
Mustamae bollerhouses and automation and control of the pumps
Electricity savings estimated at 12 GWh/year at EEK 190/MWh results In a savings of EEK 2,280,000/year and fuel
savings from better load dispatch estimated at 23 GWh/year at EEK 11 1/MWh results In fuel savings of EEK 2,553,000
Rebuilding District Heating Network: Including replacement of pipes from Tallinn boiler plant to City center
Savings estimated from reduction of heat and water losses of 5.1 GWh/year with an oil price of EEK 11 1/MWh resulting
In a savings of EEK S66,100/year. Further savings from reduction of water consumption of 40,000 m3/year at a water
cost of EEK 12/m3 for a savings of EEK 480,000/year.
Improvement to Ventilatlon of Concrete Culverts: Including 200 value and expansion joint chambers In all 3 networks
Savings resulting from longer lifetime of pipes from reduced corrosion estimated at EEK 5,400,000
Connection of 2 Networks: Including pipeline connectlon between eastern and central networks to avold back-up
capacity Investments at IRU, to allow heat to be exchanged and to allow cheaper heat from IRU to be supplied when
operating In CHP mode
Fuel savings resulting from better load dispatch estimated at 36 GWh/year with an oil price of EEK 11 1/MWh for a
total savings of EEK 3,396,000
_    _  _  __ _--- -------- _---- ------- _----- ------ _------ ----- _------- ---- _-------- --- _--------- --    ----------



TARTU DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 1: Calculation of IERR
('000 EEK)
---------------Costs---- ----------- -----------------Benefits--------- ------------------------------------------------
Incremental              Fuel   Increase    Reduced Heat Energy    Savings from
Construction   O&M      Total        Cost   In Boiler    & Water Loss Savings In    Water   Total        Net
Year       Cost       Cost        Cost       Savings Efficiency   In Network   Substations  Treatment   Benefits  Benefits
--___ ---_ ------------    ------------     -----------   ---------     ------------_ ------------ ____ __ -_ ---___ ---_ _-___--_-___ _ -___ _ -__ -___ -__ -__ -_
1            43,340          0      43,340       0           0           0           0          0           0      (43,340)
2            82,445        617      83,062   28,938        375         308       1,040         125      30,786     (52,277)
3            19,910        617      20,527   31,732        375         615       2,080        250       35,052      14,525
4            12,320        617      12,937   35,188        375         923       3,120        250       39,856      26,919
5            12,265        617      12,882   35,188        375        1,230      4,160        250       41,203      28,321
6                          617         617   35,188        375        1,230      5,200        250       42,243      41,626
7                          617         617   35,188        375        1,230      5,200        250       42,243      41,626
8                          617         617   35,188        375        1,230      5,200        250       42,243      41,626
9                          617         617   35,188        375        1,230      5,200        250       42,243      41,626
10                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
11                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
12                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
13                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
14                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
15                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
16                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
17                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
18                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
19                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
20                         617         617   35,188         375       1,230       5,200        250      42,243      41,626
Rate of Return - 29%
10
Ln



TARTU DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 2: Key Asumptions for the Calculation of IERR
Luunja Boiler Conversion: Incuding conversion of 2 oll-fired boilers for peat wih a new capacity of 1 6MW each.
Boiler I is to be operated about 8,000 hoursyawr and boiler 2 about 6,250 hours/year.
Savings in heat production (fue) coats are as follows:
Production:                                             Fuel Price Savings:                  Fuel Savings:
Boiler 1: 16 MW. 8,000 hours/yar - 128 GWh/year         Oil price =    139 EEWIMWh          228 GWhyr x 95 EEKiMWh
Boiler 2: 16 MW, 6,250 houryear - 100 GWh/year          Milled pet price  44 EEKWMWh         adjust d by eficiency factor
228 GWh/year                          Differenoe -   95 EEKiMWh             of 0.8 - EEK 26,482,000/year
Ropka Boiler Conversion: Including conversion of 3 oil-fired boilers for wood chips and peat with a new capacity of 7 MW each.
Boiler 1 is td be operated about 6,500 hour/year, boiler 2 about 6,000 hours/yar and boiler 3 about 5.500 hours/year.
Savings in heat production (fueQl co  are as follows:
Production:                                             Fuel Price Savings:                  Fuel Savings:
Boiler 1: 7 MW, 6,500 hour/year - 45 GWh/year           Oil price -    139 EEWMWh           125 GWh/ysar x 66 EEKWMWh
Boiler 2: 7 MW, 6.000 hours/year - 42 GWhlyea           Sod peat price . 73 EEKWMWh          adjusted by efficency factor
Boiler 3: 7 MW, 5,500 hours/year - 38 GWh/y.ar          Difference .   66 EEKWMWh            of 0.85 - EEK 0,706,000/year
125 GWhtyear
Boiler Efficiency Improvements: Including mobile measuring equipment at Turu, Aardia, Ropka, Tulbi and Tuglase boiler plants
Benefits estimated from better effiincy (about 1/2%) of the boilers by lowering oxygen content (by about 1 %) in the flue gas
resultng in energy savings of about 2.7 GWh/yea with an oil price of EEK 139iMWh provides a savings of EEK 375,300/yer
Rebuilding District Heating Network: Including replacement of old pipelines.
Savings estimated from reduction of heat and water losses of 4.6 GWh/year and 3.1 GWh/year for a total savings of 7.7 GWh/year
x an oil price of EEK 139/MWh resultng in a savings of EEK 1,070,000/year.
Further savings fromn reduction of water consumption of EEK 1 0.000/year for a total savings of EEK 1.230,000/yer.
Rebuilding Substations: Including heat meters, Installation of control equiprnent and balancing valves
Savings estimated at about 10% of heat demand or about 52 GWh/year with an average fuel coat of EEKI 100/MWh results In
a savings of EEK 5.200,000/year
Water Treatment Improvements: Including mechanical filters at all 6 plants and water softener equipment at Turu and dosing
equipment for each plant
Savings from reduced costs of chemicals and maintenance estimated at EEK 150,000/year and longer lifetime of pipelinee
and other network equipment estmated at EEK 100,000/year for a total savings of EEK 250,000/year
10
Ln



PARNU DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 1: Calculation of IERR
('000 EEKI
--Costs-                                        -Benefits-
Incremental               Fuel    Reduced Heat Energy       Electricity    Savings trom
Construction    O&M        Total       Cost    & Water Loss  Savings in   Savings from   Water      Total         Net
Year       Cost         Cost         Cost       Saving   In Network   Substations   New Pumps  Treatment   Benefits        Benefits
1             22.195           0       22,195         0            0           0            0            0            0      (22,195)
2             22,077         900        22,977    11,816          54         900           76          800       13,646       (9,331)
3              7,722         900         8.622    11,816         107         900           76          800       13,700        5,078
4              5,742         900         6,642    11,816         161          900          76          800       13,753        7,111
5                            900          900    11,816          161         900           76          800       13,753       12,853
6                            900          900    11.816          161          900          76          800       13,753       12,853
7                            900          900    11,818          181        1.800          76          800       14,653       13,753
8                            900          900    11,816          181        1,800          76          800       14.8f3       13,753
9                            900          900    11,816          161        1.800          76          800       14,653       13,753
10                            900          900    11,816         161        1.800           76         800        14,853      13,753
11                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76         800        14,653      13,753
12                            900          900    11.816         161        1,800           76         800        14,653      13,753
13                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76         800        14,653      13,753
14                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76         800        14,653      13,753
15                            900          900    11.816         161        1,800           76         800       14,653       13,753
16                            900          900    11,816         161        1,800           76         800        14,653      13,753
17                            900          900    11,816         161        1,800           78         800       14,653       13,753
18                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76         800        14,653      13,753
19                            900          900    11.816         161        1,800           76         800        14,653      13.753
20                            900          900    11,816         161         1.800          76          800       14,653      13,753
21                            900          900    11.816         161         1,800          76          800       14,653      13,753
22                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76          800       14.653      13,753
23                            900          900    11,816         161         1,800          76          800       14,653       13,753
24                            900          900    11,81B         161         1,800          76          800       14,653       13,753
Rate of Retum * 28%
ID
m
O 
Ln 



PARNU DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION COMPONENT
Table 2: Key Assumptions for the Calculation of IERR
Parnu Boiler Conversion: Including conversion of 2 oil-fired DKVR boilers to use of wood chips and sod peat with a new capacity
of 10 MW each. Soiler 1 is to be operated about 8,000 hours/year and boiler 2 about 5,700 hours/year
Savings in heat production (fuel) costs are as follows:
Production:                                            Fuel Price Savings:                   Fuel Savings:
Boiler 1: 10 MW, 8,000 hours/year - 80 GWh/year        Oil price     119 EEKlMWh            137 GWhyear x 69 EEK/MWh
Boiler 2: 10 MW, 5.700 hours/year - 57 GWh/year        Wood/peat price - 50 EEK/MWh         adjusted by efficiency factor
137 GWh/year                          Difference -   69 EEKiMWh            of 0.83 * EEK 11.81 6,000/year
Rebuilding District Heating Network: Including replacement of old pipelines.
Savings esimaed from reduction of heat and water losses of 0.7 GWh/year and 0.4 GWh/year fr a total savings of
1.1 GWhear x an oil price of EEK 119/MWh resulting In a savings of EEK 130,900/year
Further savings from reduction of water consumption of EEK 30,000/year have also been esimated for a total
savings of EEK 160.900/year
Rebuilding Substations: Including control valves for hot domestic water, control valves for heating systems.
mixing pumps for heating system, auxiliary equipment and heat meters.
Savings estimated at 5% of heat demand during the first 5 years and at 10% of heat demand of about 180 GWh/year thereafter
with an average fuel cost of EEK 100/MWh results in savings of EEK 1,800,000/year.
Variable Speed Pumps and Control/Regulation System: Including installation of variable speed pumps at Parnu and
Tervis boiler plants and control system for them.
Savings estimated at about 20% of the pumping energy or about 400 MWh/year of electricity at EEK 190/MWh results
in savings of EEK 76,000/year.
Water Treatment Improvements: Including new make-up water pumps
Savings estimated at EEK 800,000/year from longer lifetime and lower maintenance costs
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
10
°ln



IRU POWER PLANT IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
Table 1: Calculation of IERR
('000 EEK)
---Costs--- -----------------------Benefits-- --------------------------------------
Fuel    Reduced                Savings of    Savings
Construction    Cost   O&M         Life      Chemicals &   from new    Total       Net
Year       Cost       Savings   Costs      Extension    Others      Pumps      Benefits    Benefits
1            17,977       0            0          0           0            0           0   (17,977)
2            54,576    3,920         304         459         184         937       5,804  (48,772)
3                      4,536         608       4.968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
4                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
5                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
6                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
7                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
8                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
9                      4,536         608       4,968         918       2,811      13,841   13,841
10                     4,536         608        4,968        918       2,811       13,841   13,841
11                     4,536         608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
12                     4,536         608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
13                      4,536        608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
14                      4,536        608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
15                      4,536        608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
16                      4,536        608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
17                      4,536        608        4,968        918        2,811      13,841   13,841
Rate of Return - 18%
--------- ---- ----- --     ------ --     - ---- - --- --     -- ------ --- -------- ---     ----- ------     -- --------



ANNEX 13
Page 9 of 15
IRU POWER PLANT IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
Table 2: Key Assumptions for the Calculation of IERR
Boller Efficiency Improvements: Including repair of air preheater and Improved control and automation will
improve the efficiency of the bollers
Savings in fuel costs are derived from a 5% efficiency improvement of one steam boller which produces
260 GWh/year of heat and 110 GWh/year of electricity for a total savings of 24 GWh/year with an oil price
of EEK 1 12/MWh produces a savings of EEK 2,688,000/year.
Further savings In fuel costs are derived from a 1.5% efficiency improvement In 3 hot water boilers
producing 980 GWhlyear for a total savings of 16.5 GWh/year with an oil price of EEK 1 12/MWh produces
a savings of EEK 1,848,000/year. Total savings therefore estimated at EEK 4,536,000/year.
Reduced O&M Costs: Resulting from all Investments
Lower O&M costs due to: (a) Less corroslon In flue gas channel and stack due to better air preheater for
which savings estimated at EEK 135,000/year; (b) Improved water quality for which savings are estimated
at EEK 270,000/year; (c) Better automation and control for which savings are estimated at EEK 203,000/year.
Total savings therefore estimated at EEK 608,000/year.
Lifetime extension: Resulting from all investments
Longer lifetime of (a) Flue gas channels and stack due to better alr preheater for which savings
estimated at EEK 270,000/year; (b) Power plant pipes and equlpment due to better water quality for which
savings are estimated at EEK 270,000/year; (c) Super heaters of the steam boiler due to more even
temperature of steam and combustion for which savings are estimated at EEK 203,000/year; (d) Hot water
boilers due to more even temperature for which savings are estimated at EEK 94,000/year; (e) Lasnamae DH
system due to better DH water quality for which savings are estimated at EEK 4,050,000/year; and (f)
Hot water bollers due to less start-ups for which savings are estimated at EEK 81,000/year.
Total savings therefore estimated at EEK 4,968,000/year.
Savings in Chemicals and Other Consumables: Resulting from water treatment Improvements
Chemical savings estimated at EEK 270,000/year. Longer lifetime of ion exchanger regins estimated at
EEK 648,000/year. Total savings therefore estimated at EEK 918,000/year.
Savings from Variable Speed Pumps: Including 3 variable speed pumps Installed at IRU
Electricity savings estimated at 7.2 GWh/year with an electricity price of EEK 190/MWh results in
a savings of EEK 1,368,000/year.
Fuel savings from better load dispatch estimated at 13 GWh/year with an oil cost of EEK 11 1/MWh
results in a savings of EEK 1,443,000/year. Total savings therefore estimated at EEK 2,811,000/year.
_ -    -    - - - - - - -   - - - - -   -- - - - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - -- - -   - - - - - - - - __-__ __ _ __ _ __ _-_- -___ _-__ _-___ _ __ _ __ _



ANNEX 13
Page 10 of 15
*  --~~~~~~~-                            -   -       -         -- -    - - -  -   --   -  -
-. -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   - - - .
Po                          g                                                    
CS N
- -  - - -  - -  - -    -  - - -  - -  -                               - -  - -  - -  - -  --/
- - - - - - --  -    - -      --           -    - -    -    -    - -    -  -    -
Q4"
a,                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --
wC
S                                                                                                           '-4~~~~~~~~r-
si!jo _q__-Iso                                               ---Hoi  uTs-t



Small Boiler Replacement
Sensitivity Analysis
<  200.0%
, 150.0%-j
C: 100.0%              \
n)50.0%    ___
A) 0.0%
=,-50.0%                         <
a -100.0%'
150.0%
V -200.0%
4.0%    6.0-   8.0%  10.6%  12.0%  14.01016..00
Discount Rates
F.-Investment       O&M          -x- Fuel Savings]
I-A-



Tallinn DH Rehabilitation
Sensitivity Analysis
< 150.0% 
0  50.0% j                                     -
-50.0% 1
i4   - 150.0'       I  -  l  l        I l
V         9.0%  13.2%  17.4%  21.6%  25.8%  30.0%  34.2%
Discount Rates
|Investment   ~Fuel Savings    Life Extensionl 
Pumps savings Em Other BenefitsJ 
o D



Tartu DH Rehabilitation
Sensitivity Analysis
150.0%
50.0%
-50.0%
.., 150.0%~                
V        10.0%  15.0% 20.0%  25.0%  30.0%  35.0% 40.0%
Discount Rates
|InvestmLent      Fuel Savings   Life Extensionl 
Pumps savings   Other Benefits   



Parnu DH Rehabilitation
Sensitivity Analysis
W  150.0% -
ffi  0.0%
50.0%
150.0%' 
u        15.0% 20.0% 25.0% 30.0% 35.0% 40.0% 45.0%
Discount Rates
-Investment       Fuel Savings      Life Extension 
-Pumps savings   Other Benefits jol



Iru Power Plant Improvement
Sensitivity Analysis
<  200.0%X
100.0%       
c)  0.0%
.c -100.0%             /
s -200.0%-
U        7.0%  11.0%  15.0%  19.0% 23.0% 27.0%  31.0%
Discount Rates
[ -Investment        Fuel Savings     Life Extension
Pumps savings   Other Benefits                   1



ANNEX 14
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
The supervision of the project is expected to require about 25 staff-weeks per year in the first two
years and 15 staff-weeks per year thereafter. The schedule below is in addition to the regular review
requirements for procurement actions, consultancy and advisory services and general administration,
estimated to be about 9 staff-weeks for the first two years and about 7 staff-weeks thereafter.
Aoroximate          Activit              Expected Skill                     Staff-
Dates                                   Requirements-                     Weeks
9/94                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         8
(Project Launch)    Restructuring Specialist,
Environmental Specialist
3/95                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         8
Restructuring Specialist
9/95                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         8
Restructuring Specialist,
Enviromnental Specialist
3/96                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         8
Restructuring Specialist
9/96                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
Restructuring Specialist,
Envirommental Specialist
3/97                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
Restructuring Specialist
9/97                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
Restructuring Specialist,
Enviromnental Specialist
3/98                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
Restructuring Specialist
9/98                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst,         4
Environmental Specialist
5/99                Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst          4
12/99               Supervision          Engineer, Financial Analyst          4
(Project Completion)



SCHEMATIC DRAWING I
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schematic Drawing of Tallinn DH System
NW                                                9
KABA1A A             9A
keg^A too W                                                              ,w4. 
l          I                                             Il  l
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --I
I  ... t , . .. .   9 
* ~      ~        I                              I m 
I~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                      - CIuT  --
..   ..  .    .   _   .   _   , .   .  ..9



SCHEMATIC DRAWING 2
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schematic Drawing of Tartu DH System
aT~uglag
Tulbi
53 MC 
Aard 1 a
23 MW
Ropka
66 MW



SCHEMATIC DRAWING 3
ESTONIA
DISTR1CI HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schematic Drawing of Parnu DH System
4\v\ze           NIIDU            VISNURX
PARNU
. TERVIS



CHART 1
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of Estonian State EnerLyy Department
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-.
.  -  .
3~~~~~~~~~~~~
=~~~~~~~~~~~
j '; n
tmu 



CHART-2
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of Parnu DH Companv
Board
3
|Managing|
IDeputy          Producton
LDrector         Manager
4       ~~3                      2           3
Chief   Chief                 Technical Pesne
Accountant  Economist               Manager
148
Chief of    Chief of     Chief of     Chief of
Energy     Big Boiler-  Small Boiler-    Repair
Department     house       houses    Department
l [
l              Workers and Specialists
L



EDE
| ~~~~~~~EERATION 4 
l  /   KlLOhlETERS 0 50  n  X  DIST RIC T   HEATING  REHABILITATION  PROJECTS                                  <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. jNi.p
. mLESiS U A:lONS(INMEER)t3NAALCAPIA  RUNKRAS)
r 2 50 RIV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERS-DNERNATIONALBUDRE
c 4k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eg111t.Ig13111ag a    >  



