Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20631
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-37400; SCL-3740A; SCPM-3740S; COFN-03280)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 38.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
FOR A DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
JUNE 23, 2000
Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = Estonian Kroon (EEK)
15.94 EEK = US$ 1.00
US$ 1 = 0.06
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS         =  Country Assistance Strategy
CHP         =  Combined-Heat-and-Power
CO          =  Carbon Monoxide
C02         =  Carbon Dioxide
DH          =  District Heating
EBRD        =  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
EIB         =  European Investment Bank
ERR         =  Economnic Rate of Return
EU          =  European Union
FRR         =  Financial Rate of Return
FSU         =  Former Soviet Union
G24         =  Group of 24
HOB         =  Heat-only-Boiler
ICB         =  International Competitive BiRdding
MW          =  Megawatt
NEAP        =  National Environmental Aclion Plan
NCB         =  National Competitive Bidding
NGO         =  Nongovernmental Organizalion
NOx         =  Nitride Oxides
PIU         =  Project Implementation Unit
S02         =  Sulphur Dioxide
Vice President:   Mr. Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Mr. Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Mr. Henk Busz
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Ms. Carolyn Gochenour



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ESTONIA
DISTRICT HEATING REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   20
6. Sustainability                                                                       23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        25
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      29
9. Partner Comments                                                                     32
10. Additional Information                                                              33
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    34
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    37
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    39
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    45
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       46
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   47
Map No. IBRD 28038 - Map of Estonia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008400                                        Project Name: District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Carolyn Gochenour                             TL Unit: ECSEG
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 23. 2000
1. Project Data
Name: District Heating Rehabilitation Project         L/C/TF Number: CPL-37400;
SCL-3740A;
SCPM-3740S;
COFN-03280
CounttlyDepartment: ESTONIA                                               Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/15/93                                 Effective: 10/31/94            10/31/94
Appraisal:  01/27/94                                   MTR: 05/29/96              05129/96
Approval:  05/26/94                                 Closing: 12/31/99            12/31/99
BorrowerlImplernenting Agency: Republic of Estonia/Ministry of Economy, Eesti Energia, Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu
Municipalities
Other Partniers: European Investment Bank, Governments of Sweden, Finland and Denmark
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfred Thalwitz
Countty Manager:     Basil G. Kavalsky                          Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Henk Busz                                  Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:   Carolyn Gochenour                         Carolyn Gochenour
ICR Primary Author:  J. Christian Duvigneau
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perfor mance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality, at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's objectives were to:
(a) reduce fuel costs and import requirements through efficiency improvements and by increasing the use
of indigenous fuels in heat production, in compatibility with environmental and nature protection principles;
(b) bring about energy efficiency and economy in major district heating (DH) systems through
rehabilitation and introduction of modem technologies and equipment;
(c) improve environmental conditions in affected areas by improving the efficiency of fuel use,
facilitating the conversion or replacement of boilers from the use of heavy fuel oil and coal to peat and
wood fuels, reducing wastage of water in DH systems, and promoting the environmentally sound use of
peat and wood as DH fuels; and
(d) support the strengthening and restructuring of DH institutions, facilitate their eventual
privatization, and help develop the energy sector through consultancy and advisory services, training and
provision of equipment and software.
The project's objectives were clearly defined and in line with the Government's energy sector policy and
strategy which had been prepared during project preparation and in close cooperation with the Bank.
Indeed, various energy sector studies, executed in preparation of the Project, were helpful to chart the
course for energy sector reform and restructuring. The Government's Statement of Energy Policy and
Strategy, in line with the Government's overall economic reform program of market liberalization and
increasing participation of the private sector, suggested that significant structural reform as well as
investments were needed in the sector. The Policy Statement also emphasized that the Government would
retain, at least in the medium term, full ownership of certain key facilities (oil shale and oil-shale based
electricity generation) considered strategic, and which might only be privatized later. The emphasis on
rehabilitation/modernization of existing facilities and diversification of the primary fuel base to reduce the
need for costly imports of fuel oil, coal and gas, logically singled out the lheating sector as the highest
priority focus for support by international donors, as the power sector was based on locally-mined oil shale.
The supply of oil and gas from Russia had been interrupted in the early 1990's at occasions, and the
heating supply during the cold winter of 1992/93 was unsatisfactory as a resull:. Thus, the Government had
a strong interest to increase security of supply by diversifying more into alternative, local fuels. This
further explains the strong focus of the Project on DH.
A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report 1 3539-EE), prepared almost sirnultaneously with the project
appraisal, also emphasized the Government's priority with regard to energy sector restructuring. It further
underlined the need for institutional reform, decentralization of certain energy sector functions to
municipalities and their eventual privatization, in line with the Government's energy sector policy and
strategy. The Project further responded to the more general CAS objective of "ensuring that infrastructure
services are efficient and facilitate a supply response." In 1993, the Government decided to transfer
ownership of DH facilities and related obligations and responsibilities to the municipalities. Inexperienced
municipalities had difficulties to operate their DH systems efficiently. The Project, with its institutional
- 2 -



and investment components, therefore was designed to help the major cities of Estonia as well as smaller
communities to familiarize themselves with the economics and operations of DH systems and to improve
efficiency and environmental compliance.
Last but not least, the project's objectives emphasized the need for environmental sustainability of the DH
sector, again in line with the Government's sector strategy and the CAS objectives. Thus, the Project was
designed to assist the municipalities and facility operators to address the major air pollution issues which
were imminent in the inherited systems, and to provide the needed investrnents for reducing air pollution to
below acceptable limits under the emerging environmental legislation of the country.  The National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) and the Environmental Policy Statement of Estonia, issued in 1997,
and having already in mind the intended European Union (EU) accession, emphasized among its 10 key
priorities the reduction of negative environmental effects from the energy sector and the improvement in air
quality, which were among the key objectives of the Project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were maintained throughout project implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project comprised: (a) one component of small boiler conversions and replacements in small
municipalities throughout Estonia (Part A), (b) three DH rehabilitation components (in Tallinn (Part Bi),
Tartu (Part B2), and Pamu (Part B3)), (c) improvement of an existing combined-heat-and-power (CHP)
plant at Iru/Tallinn (Part C), and one institutional support program for project agencies, providing
consulting and advisory services, training and equipment and software for these institutions (Part D).
The original investment allocation was as follows: Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Program: US$
12.8 million; Tallinn DH Rehabilitation: US$ 22.5 million; Tartu DH Rehabilitation US$14.3 million;
Parnu DH Rehabilitation: US$5.0 million; Iru CHP Plant Improvement: US$ 5.8 million; and Institutional
Support Program: US$ 4.1 million, yielding a total project cost of US$ 64.5 million. Of this amount, the
World Bank was to finance US$ 38.4 million, allocating its funds to support components A, BI, B2, C and
D.
The remaining investment requirements were to be financed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) (US$
4.4 million equivalent) for component B3 and additions to BI; the Swedish Government (BITS, later
changed to Sida) (US$ 10 million) to co-finance components (A and B2); other donors (US$ 3.8 million)
for component (D); and the project agencies (US$ 7.9 million) for the remaining portions of their respective
components. Interest during construction and incremental working capital requirements were also to be
provided by the project agencies. The investments under the Project complemented already ongoing
investments funded with support from EBRD, G24, bilateral agencies (e.g. Government of Denmark,
Swedish NUTEK) and local sources.
A policy component, which would have acted like a sector adjustment loan (see the Poland Heat Supply
Restructuring Project, for an example), was not included and was probably not necessary, as the size of
Estonia and the importance of the District Heating Rehabilitation Project gave the Bank's supervision staff
regular access to the Government during the entire duration of project preparation and implementation.
Government sector policy in the DH sector had become largely sound as a result of project preparation and
intensive discussion of Government policies and strategy during that period. The Energy Policy and
Strategy Statement of the Government was largely adhered to during project implementation. Moreover,
'3 -



the institutional support component included technical assistance for developing a legal and regulatory
framework for the energy sector. The sound preparatory work of the Government supported through
technical assistance during the project period culminated in a new, market-oriented legal framework for the
energy sector in 1997 and approved by Parliament in 1998. The EU, in its efforts to support Estonia in
reaching the requirements under the acquis communautaire, also provided technical support and some
funding to help bring about the energy reformns. Moreover, the EU assisted in helping the country move in
line with EU environmental directives and regulations.
3.4 Revised Components:
No major revision of project components was undertaken.
However, within the small boiler conversion/replacement component, the emphasis on conversions was
reduced. The size of the boiler replacement component was maintained, whereas the size of the boiler
conversion was scaled down to about 25% of the original estimate. The main reasons for this change was:
(a) large efforts were made to convert boilers not only by the World Bank and Sida but also with funds
from the EU, Swedish NUTEK, EBRD, and others, which created a competition with the best projects
going first; (b) in many cases, the sizes of existing oil-fired boilers were simply 1oo large when heat demand
decreased, so the efficiency of a boiler after conversion would not be adequate; (c) the costs of conversions
turned out almost as high as replacements in most cases; (d) in some sub-projects, municipalities went
ahead with own financing; and (e) in some cases, the source of fuel could not be ascertained, the
commitment of the municipality was insufficient or the overall project was not feasible.
In the case of the Iru CHP Plant component, during implementation the smoke stack of the plant started to
deteriorate and needed replacement because of the low capacity utilization and intermittent use of the
boilers in Iru which caused the surphur in the flue gases to condense on the inner surface of the mantle of
the stack. Funding in the amount of US$ 2.9 million for this additional item was obtained from the Bank
Loan through reallocation of funds from the small boiler conversion program, which was scaled down, and
the Tallinn component, since EIB was providing additional funding for Tallinn (amendment of November 5,
1996).
In the case of the Tallinn DH rehabilitation component, a separate Project Agreement between the newly
established joint-stock company AS Tallinna Soojus, formned by merging the network and distribution
companies, and the Bank was signed on November 25, 1998, to allow complet:ion of that sub-component
directly with the new company.
In the case of the Pamu DH rehabilitation component, two boilers, originally envisaged for conversion,
were completely replaced, as a result of bid prices for conversion and replacement not differing
significantly.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no quality-at-entry-review undertaken for this Project, which had been prepared in 1993.
However, the Project could build on a number of energy sector and sound feasibility studies of the
individual project components funded by bilateral sources (Denmark, Finland, Sweden) and undertaken
under the guidance of World Bank staff. Moreover, there were a number of investment projects under early
implementation in Estonia at the time of appraisal funded with support of EBRD and other multilateral and
bilateral sources, early lessons of which were taken into account. Last but not least, the Project benefited
significantly from the experience made during implementation of earlier DH projects in the Eastem and
- 4 -



Central Asia Region, and notably the major Heat Supply Restructuring Project in Poland (Project Number
P008576). In particular, early lessons of implementation, time requirements, organizational arrangements
and unit costs for network rehabilitation could be applied in this Project.
At the time of project preparation and appraisal, the DH sector in Estonia, like in many other former
centrally-planned economies, was characterized by high inefficiencies in its systems layouts and operations,
high costs, with primary energy inputs (other than oil shale), i.e., gas and fuel-oil, rapidly moving towards
world market pricing, and with high levels of water losses, as well as air pollution. In the Soviet period,
heat tariffs had been extremely low. When fuel inputs (mostly gas and oil, but also some coal) started to be
sold at world market prices in the early 1990's, the Estonian Government made valiant efforts to raise
tariffs to recover rising costs. But consumers, whose incomes did not rise at the same pace, had increasing
difficulties to pay and, in extreme circumstances, ceased to pay altogether, which increased receivables of
the DH companies significantly. This, compounded by the fact that further needed increases of heat tariffs
started to meet political opposition, led to a deteriorating financial situation of some DH companies. For a
while, only industrial customer tariffs were increased, which led to increasing cross-subsidization of
residential customers and caused some industries to abandon the DH system, producing heat from
altemative sources.  Thus, remedial action was only possible through major rehabilitation, while
simultaneously assisting the municipalities to help raise tariffs to cost recovering levels for all customers of
modernized facilities. In this context, special measures for social assistance had been put in place already
in Estonia prior to the Project to provide assistance to heat customers near or below the poverty level.
Small Boiler Conversion/Replacement Component: This component was prepared by Estonian agencies
with the assistance of Danish consultants. It was designed to address the problem of many small
municipalities, which had highly polluting oil- or coal-fired boiler facilities that were too inefficient under
the new market-oriented economy. The use of local fuels, such as peat, wood, wood chips, bark and saw
dust, had been shown to reduce operating costs of the converted or rebuilt facilities significantly. At the
time of appraisal, many communities had submitted sound proposals for conversion to local fuels, or even
complete replacement, of existing boilers. An assessment of the feasibility of many of these projects
showed interestingly high returns. The quality of entry of this components is considered therefore as
"Satisfactory."
Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu District Heat Rehabilitation Components: Based on their respective
feasibility studies, sound investment components forecast the rapid improvement of perfortnance after
implementation. The studies were carried out by internationally-renowned consultants and formed a good
basis for appraisal. However, in all studies, demand forecasts were overly-optimistic in their assumptions
that demand for heat would grow again from the low point of the 1992/93 winter. The studies failed to
consider the impact of growing tariffs on demand. The Bank team, in close cooperation with the project
agencies, revised these optimistic growth scenarios significantly downwards.  On the other hand,
assumnptions regarding estimated implementation time and costs, as well as projected efficiency gains and
environmental performance were largely realistic. The familiarity of the Bank team with ongoing
investments in the country's DH sector and similar projects elsewhere further facilitated appraisal and
allowed for some correction of the studies' short-comings. The quality of entry of these components is
rated "Satisfactory."
Iru CHP Plant Improvement Component: This was a plant which had been built during the period
1978-89, but was not being utilized at its full capacity as it could not compete with the lower-cost, oil shale
power plants in Northeast Estonia, due to lags in adjusting oil shale prices to full cost recovery levels.
However, it was expected that the utilization of Iru would increase in the near future and that it would be a
lower cost source of heat for Tallinn than the existing heat-only-boilers (HOBs). The project preparation
-5-



efforts included a study of altemative plant improvements designed to improve plant efficiency, using
different scenarios of fuel, heat and electricity costs. The selected altemative focused mainly on
improvements of the heat-only equipment, as domestic and export demand for electricity over the next 5-7
years was expected to be met from production from the power stations in Northeast Estonia. The selected
altemative was realistic and fit into the focus of the Project. The quality of entry of this component is
considered "Highly Satisfactory."
Institutional Support Component:  This component was designed to provide training in project
management, efficiency improvements and environmental management as well as consulting services for
effective DH management and operations systems, including financial management, company restructuring
as well as procurement and disbursement. It also included a component for the development of a legal and
regulatory framework needed under the market based, privately-oriented sector. The component, together
with project investments, would help to prepare the DH companies for privatization through improvement
of assets, operations and management systems. Funding for the component was to come largely from
bilateral sources, including the EU, Denmark, Finland, Sweden and the DH companies' own funds. The
quality of entry of this component is considered "Satisfactory."
-6 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievem7ent of objective:
The overall achievements of the project objectives are judged to be "Satisfactory" and better. The Project
has substantially met the original objectives to: (a) reduce fuel costs and import requirements; (b) increase
energy efficiency; (c) improve environmental conditions in affected areas; and (d) restructure and
strengthen the DH companies, to facilitate their eventual privatization.
Reduction in Fuel Costs and Import Requirements: This Project has made excellent progress in the
reduction of fuel costs during the period of implementation, which is highly likely to be sustained over the
life of the investments.
Fuel substitution (biomass and peat for oil and gas) in order to reduce fuel costs and increase security of
heat supplies was one of the key objectives of the small boiler component, as well as the Tartu and Pamu
DH rehabilitation components. During 1999, the savings from use of local fuels instead of imported fuels
were calculated at about EEK 20 million (over US$ 1.4 million) for the small boiler program. This number
is likely to be significantly higher in 2000 at about EEK 25 million (over US$ 1.7 million), as 1999 had
unusually low oil prices. If the Tartu DH system were operated as originally designed with the peat and
wood-fired boilers used as base load, the fuel cost savings of over EEK 10 million (US$ 0.7 million) in
1999 could be increased to about EEK 20 million (US$ 1.4 million) or more, as the converted boilers are
being utilized at only about one half of their intended capacity. In Parnu, fuel cost savings of over EEK 4
million (US$ 0.3 million) achieved in 1997 will be achievable again in 2000 under the presently prevailing
oil prices.
These savings have had a direct impact on the balance of payments situation of the country. The share of
local, renewable energy in Estonia's heating sector is reported to have increased from 3.5% in 1993 to 11%
in 1998. The Project has greatly contributed to this development. Reduction of fuel costs further resulted
from energy efficiency improvements discussed below. These reductions also have had a direct impact on
the balance of payments situation and are estimated to have even exceeded the savings from fuel
substitution.
Energy Efficiency Increases: The Project has made efficiency gains in the areas of heat production,
transmission, distribution and consumption. In the production process, the specific fuel consumption has
been reduced by an estimated 5% to 10%, on average. The renovation of the transmission and distribution
networks and installation of variable speed pumps has led to significant energy savings, again estimated in
the order of up to 10% heat and pumping losses. Very dramatic reductions in water losses have also been
achieved through the switch from direct to indirect domestic hot water connections, amounting to a
decrease of over 85% in Tallinn, of almost 90% in Tartu and over 90% in Parnu. The heat consumption in
buildings equipped with renovated substations has been estimated to have been reduced by about 24%, on
average.
Environmental Improvements: This Project has been remarkable in reducing local air pollution, as well
as emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2) harmful in the context of climate change. The following table
illustrates the reductions of emissions during the project implementation period:
- 7 -



Emissions Reduction 1993-1999
U. n  iL T $02   N            d   _ 7C0        C "
Iru CHP                       t    -1,432    -686       -10     1'2,012    n.a.      n.a.
Tallinn DH System             t     3,501     297        11     5C9,250    n.a.      n.a.
Tartu DH System               t      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.    12,352     n.a.      n.a.
of which Ropka Boiler       t       34       99        16       n.a.      463       53
of which Luunja Boiler      t      286       187       15       n.a.     1,461     1,815
Parnu DH System               t      24       -31       257       n.a.     1,209      7
Small Boilers                 t      696       134       2      46,393     n.a.      n.a.
Total                         t     3,108      -1       291    580,007    3,133      1,875
Total without Iru CHP         t     4,540     685       301    567,995    3,133      1,875
The "negative reductions," i.e., increases of emissions at the Iru CHP Plant are due to the fact that the plant
has produced about 3.5 times as much electricity in 1999 at 460 GWh as cornpared to the level of 108
GWh of 1993. However, CO2 reduction at Iru CHP is positive, as the plant switched essentially from
almost exclusive oil-firing in 1993 to a large proportion of gas-firing (45% in 1 999). While the emissions
from Iru have increased in Tallinn, the increased electricity production from gas at Lru has reduced the need
for an equivalent amount of electricity production from the heavily polluting oil shale-fired condensing
plants in Northeast Estonia.
The very positive performance in the Tallinn DH System is due to two effects: (a) heat production from the
various boiler houses was reduced by about 20%, as generally demand declined in the city; and (b) the DH
company also substituted gas for oil (gas representing almost 10% in 1993 increased to over 70% in 1999).
In 2000, the performance will further improve when Iru CHP Plant will provide a greater share of heat
produced in CHP-mode to the DH system, due to the completion during 1999 of the connection of the
central and eastem DH networks.
In the Tartu and Pamu DH systems, the positive performance, with significant reductions, is largely due to
the switch from oil and/or gas to peat and wood products (chips, bark, saw dusit). However, in Tartu, the
performance could be significantly better if the boilers converted under the Project to peat and wood-firing
were operated as base-load boilers and the old gas-fired boilers were operated as peak-load boilers. In such
case, CO, reductions could be increased to an estimated 33,000 tons (as compared to the 12,000 tons
achieved in 1999). Certainly, the emissions' reductions have meant a major improvement already.
In the small boiler component, performance has been estimated for the 36 completed projects and is
significant, in particular with regard to CO2 reductions. The savings are likely to be considerably larger, as
these projects have served as models which have by now been copied in many other small municipalities
and villages.
Overall, the savings illustrate the significant improvement of the local environment as well as the
contributions to mitigation of climate change.
Restructuring of the District Heating Companies:
Tallinn DH Company Restructuring: The restructuring of the two DH companies in the Tallinn involved
their merger into one company, which took place as originally planned. On April 17, 1996, Tallinna
Soojusvork, previously owned by Eesti Energia and including the DH networks and large boiler houses,
was merged with Linnasoojus, owned by the Municipality and including the distribution networks and
- 8 -



small boiler houses, to become Joint-Stock Corporation AS Tallinna Soojus. The new company is wholly
owned by Tallinn Municipality, in line with the Government's objectives for decentralizing DH activities to
local authorities. The company has, with its own funds, undertaken improvements to its management and
operations systems and reorganized its internal structure to one more consumer-oriented, in line with the
new market economy. The merger has contributed to improving system efficiency, by allowing the better
optimization of daily operations and investments and by the elimination of duplication of functions and
personnel.
Iru CHP Plant: While an explicit plan for restructuring Iru CHP Plant was not included under the Project,
various discussions and studies were undertaken as to whether Iru should remain with Eesti Energia or be
merged with AS Tallinna Soojus. In the end, it was decided to retain Iru as part of the Eesti Energia, which
was developing its plan for demonopolization and possible privatization. Up-to-now, Iru CHP Plant has
remained as a cost center of Eesti Energia but is planned to be established as a separate daughter company
(profit center) in the near future. Establishment of Iru as a separate profit center would allow for more
transparency in its operations and pricing.
Parnu DH Company Restructuring: The DH Company was transferred to municipal ownership in
October 1992. Under the Project, technical assistance and training has been provided for improvements in
company management procedures and accounting systems. The company has improved efficiency by
reducing its personnel from about 160 persons in 1994 to about 100 in 1999. The company has been
particularly active in marketing and has obtained 40 new customers which has allowed heat demand to
remain relatively stable during the project period. Part of Pamu's success in gaining new customers is due
to the fact that gas networks have not been extended to the city. During 1999, a part of the Pamu DH
system, which had been spun off from the main company AS Pamu Soojus already in 1992, was
successfully privatized through a 100% sale to a Swedish investor. Pamu City Council has recently
decided to privatize AS Pamu Soojus and has retained an investment bank to advise in the privatization.
The privatization is expected to be completed during 2000.
Tartu DH Company Restructuring: In Tartu, as per discussions between the City, the Govermment and the
Bank, the restructuring of the DH companies was initiated prior to project start-up. In 1994, the entire
network was consolidated under ME Tartu Soojus, a 100%-municipality owned company, which would
handle all customer relations, including contracts tariffs, metering and billing, and in 1995, all contracts
with customers had been reviewed by city legal staff and legal advisors. Heat was produced in six separate
production plants, of which five were fully-owned by the city and one partly-owned. The consolidation of
networks was undertaken to facilitate flexibility in heat purchases and to allow Tartu to levy a uniform
tariff for retail heat sales in the city. Consulting services were provided under the Project for a new
management information and accounting system, which was linked to a new Chart of Accounts and a
written Accounting Manual prepared by the Tartu management with local Coopers & Lybrand Staff.
Later in 1997, this organization was changed, and three enterprises were created:  (a) AS Tartu
Keskkatlamaja, including Ropka system, Turu central boiler house and Turu-Luunja network (later became
Turu-Luunja-Ropka network); (b) AS Tamme Soojus, including the separate, small Tuglase, Aardla and
Tulbi boiler houses with associated networks; and (c) AS Anne Soojus, including Luunja boiler house and
Luunja Village and greenhouses network. AS Anne Soojus was a major producer of bulk heat for the
Turu-Luunja network, the main network of the city. This organization led to difficulties to optimize the
heat production, as the gas-fired Turu boilers were competing with the local-fuel Luunja boilers for base
load. Under the current arrangements, with different owners of the heat sources in the Turu-Luunja-Ropka
network and with dispatch controlled by Tartu Keskkatlamaja (one of the competitors to the local fuel
boilers), it is unlikely that an optimal operation of the system can be achieved. The City of Tartu decided
to combine the DH assets in the Turu-Luunja-Ropka network for privatization under one owner as the best
-9-



way to optimize the operation of the system. The Bank team supported this decision.
Since then, AS Tamme Soojus has been sold in 1999 to a French investor. Of the shares of AS Anne
Soojus, 50% are municipal-owned, 30% are owned by Luunja County, and 20% were owned by Tartu
Joujaam, a private enterprise. During 1999, these 20% of shares were sold to a Finnish DH company. The
remaining parts of the DH system operated by AS Tartu Keskkatlamaja, comprising the main network, the
Turu and Ropka boiler houses, and AS Anne Soojus are .to be privatized to a single investor in summer
2000.
Outright privatization has become an ultimate target of the Government and the project municipalities
during the end of the project period. The restructuring and institutional support provided under the Project
have been helpful in preparing the DH companies for privatization. Both in Tartu and in Pamu, as
mentioned above, parts of the DH systems have already been privatized and further privatization of these
systems is scheduled for 2000. Tallinn is also preparing the way toward system privatization.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A: Small Boiler Conversionl/Replacement (Estimated Cost at Appraisal: US$ 12.8 million;
Actual Cost: US$ 7.4 million)
The small boiler program assisted small municipalities and villages throughouat Estonia to improve the
economics and security of their DH systems by helping them to convert or replace obsolete existing boilers,
to allow firing of lower cost local peat- or wood-based fuels rather than expensive imported fuels (mainly
oil and coal). Thus, the program was designed to complement the DH rehabilitation program for the three
largest Estonian cities (Tallinn, Tartu, Parnu). The program envisaged to include funding for about 70
boilers with an aggregate capacity of 145 MW, drawing from the large pool of about 1,500 boilers
throughout the country. Participation would focus on publicly-owned (municipal/state) rather than
privately-owned boilers. About 60% of the funding was earmarked for boiler conversion, with boiler sizes
up to about 10 MW, and the remaining 40% for replacement of boilers (with a capacity of 0.5 to 3 MW).
Municipalities had to show a strong commitment to their projects and had to submit firm plans regarding
supply and costs of local fuels.
The component was organized almost like a credit-line for small boiler conversion/replacement, with the
State Energy Department of the Ministry of Economy acting to obtain consulting services for the evaluation
of the feasibility studies needed for an assessment of projects, and the Ministry of Finance providing for
loan funds from the Project to be made available. Danish technical assistance was supporting the Ministry
of Economy in its decision-making process and helped prepare technical specifications and tender
documents for procurement according to World Bank guidelines.  The component was advertised
throughout Estonia, and municipalities were encouraged to submit project proposals. In October 1993, a
first batch of 40 proposals was received and 34 projects were selected for detailed feasibility studies. By
June 1994, 15 of the initial batch of projects were approved in Estonia and were endorsed by the World
Bank in July 1994 for proceeding towards implementation. In the meantime, another batch of over 30
projects had been submitted by other municipalities. By mid-1995, almost 100 projects had already been
registered, with feasibility studies completed or in hand, estimated to cost a total of over EEK 150 million
(US$ 12.5 million), with almost 30 having been found feasible and about 15 being implemented or
prepared for implementation, amounting to EEK 17 million (US$1.4 million). Thus, the process had a
good start. In the cases of the less economic small boiler projects, had grants been available to help
"monetize" resulting CO2 reductions and local pollution reduction, some further projects might have
- 10 -



become economically viable as well.
Procurement for the Sida and Bank-funded component was handled centrally. Initially, bidders complained
about the costs of preparing detailed tenders, which turned out rather high, particularly in the case of boiler
conversions. Thus, many projects originally designed as boiler conversions were subsequently changed to
boiler replacements. The heavy procurement procedures were reported to add significantly to the costs of
relatively small components. Not surprising, some municipalities, with their positive feasibility study in
hand, decided to obtain local financing on their own rather than to wait for the subsequent process. The
procurement procedure was therefore simplified in consultation with the Bank   The issue was also
addressed by the team of the Ministry of Economy, by engaging in visits to the project sites prior to
committing to the feasibility studies.  It was also found early during implementation that many
municipalities were already carrying out boiler conversions on their own, and that there was a much larger
scope for boiler replacement than originally thought. In late 1995 and early 1996 the Bank agreed to the
request of the Ministry of Economy to reduce the size of the conversion part of the component, as they felt
the progress with regard to boiler conversion was too slow and, in any case, economically questionable.
The component for boiler replacements was, however, left at its original level and proceeded well.
By end-1999, the component had supported implementation of 11 projects for conversion of boilers with a
cost of US$ 1.8 million and 25 projects for replacement of boilers with a cost of $ 5.6 million. By the
conclusion of the loan, the 36 projects had been completed successfully and were operational. The
municipalities involved have greatly appreciated the investments, which have been very beneficial in terms
of cost reductions and environmental improvements. Moreover, the increase of fuel oil prices in late
1999/early 2000 has significantly improved the economics of the small boiler conversion/replacement
projects. Today, the component is considered better than "Satisfactory."
Component B: District Heating Rehabilitation in Tallinn, Tartu and Parnu
The DH rehabilitation component comprised sub-components in Tallinn, Tartu and Pamu, the three largest
cities in Estonia. The components were designed to "enhance network life, improve systems operation,
produce savings in the use of fuels and improve environmental performance." This was to be achieved by:
(a) boiler conversion or replacement (partly), (b) replacement or modernization of substations, including
heat meters, (c) replacement of obsolete parts of the network, including installation of preinsulated pipes,
modem valves, variable speed pumps and pressure and flow control systems, (d) improvement of the water
treatment systems, as well as (e) technical assistance to design system improvements and supervise their
implementation. Generally, implementation of the sub-components and resulting outputs were satisfactory,
with some mixed performance.
Component BI: Tallinn DH Rehabilitation (Estimated Cost at Appraisal: US$ 22.5 million; Actual
Cost: US$ 20.4 million)
The Tallinn DH system comprised three major networks with five large boiler houses and the Iru CHP
Plant, belonging to Eesti Energia, the national power company. At the time of appraisal, the system
consisted of 12 hot-water boilers, with a capacity of 100 MW and 4 steam boilers, with a capacity of 8
tons each, basically gas- or fuel-oil fired, three large, separate networks comprising 444 km of pipes and 50
km of local heat networks, substations and water treatment systems.
-11 -



The key objectives of the component were fuel cost reductions through improved energy efficiency to be
achieved by:  (a) installation of boiler controls and 02 analyzers, (b) improvements in consumer
installations through introduction of modem large and small substations, including heat meters, variable
speed pumps, as well as controls; (c) connection of the eastem and central networks to allow for Iru CHP
Plant to flexibly supply the central network with heat as well; (d) rehabilitation and replacement of
corroded pipelines, improvement of ventilation and drainage of ducts, and improvement of water treatment;
and (e) reduction of water leakages through replacement of corroded pipelines. Concomitant reduction of
air emissions to meet environmental standards were also among the key objecitives. The completion of this
component was achieved in December 1999.
The substation improvement was the largest investment component estimated to cost almost US$ 14
million, equivalent to about 60% of the total cost of the component. Due to the lower cost of substations
than estimated at appraisal, it was possible to implement a larger number of substations and also to extend
them to other parts of the city than originally planned. This sub-component was successfully completed
during 1998 and has greatly contributed to improved efficiency of the system, to reduction of water losses
and to savings at the building level through more accurate control of heat.
The component for boiler controls and the network improvements of about 10 km (out of a total network
of 490 1cm) further helped to improve system efficiency. The water consumption of 160.9 m3/h in 1990/91
had been reduced to a level of about 100 m3/h at the time of appraisal, largely due to the declining demand
for heat, but also through early systems improvements funded by the company and EBRD. Due to the
investmnents under the Project, and notably the change of the system to a partially closed system, and also
due to network repairs and pipe replacements, make-up water requirements were reduced further to a level
of 14.2 m3/h in 1998/99. Thus, water consumption has declined to less than 1 'i% since appraisal, and even
less than 9% since 1990/91.
The connection of the eastern and central networks now allows the DH company a much greater flexibility
to either purchase heat from Iru CHP Plant or to produce it in its own boilers Prior to completion of the
network connection, bulk heat was purchased from Iru to serve the eastem ne&work at a higher bulk tariff
than the DH Company's own heat production costs. After completion, bulk heat can be purchased not only
for the eastem network but also for the central network serving the city center. The bulk heat tariff for the
incremental purchases from Iru to serve the central network has been lowered by 13% for 2000. Given the
improvements in the central control of the system and also in the management information system, the
company can now better optimize its operations.
Given the efficiency improvements, reduction of water losses and environmental improvements, overall the
component is judged "Highly Satisfactory."  The component has been considered an excellent
demonstration project which has been visited by many DH companies from Russia, Ukraine, Lithuania,
Bulgaria and other countries.
Component B2: Tartu DH Rehabilitation (Estimated Cost at Appraisal: US$ 14.3 million; Actual
Cost: US$ 13.7 million)
The Tartu DH system in 1993 comprised one major network and five smaller network islands, with six
large boiler houses with a total capacity of 500 MW, fired by oil or gas (among them Turu, Luunja and
Ropka Boiler Houses, covering 82% of total capacity). In addition, there were 27 small boiler houses fired
by coal, oil and/or gas, DH networks comprising about 85 km of pipes, substations and water treatment
- 12 -



systems.
This project component included: (a) installation of new or rebuilt substations, regulators and heat meters;
(b) modernization of the network through installation of new pipe and a pipeline connection between Ropka
and the main DH network, Turu-Luunja; (c) improvements to water treatment facilities at several boiler
plants; and (d) conversion from gas or oil-firing to local fuels (peat or wood) of five boilers (two at Luunja
and three at Ropka) to achieve almost 50% of fuel substitution in the system. Funding for earlier
rehabilitation of substations was provided from EBRD. The investment components were essentially
completed by May 1998, with the exception of the pipeline connection.
The installation of substations had to await the completion of the first batch of 228 substations funded
under an EBRD loan. Originally 640 substations were to be replaced. By end-1999, 564 substations were
completed, including the 228 funded by EBRD, 202 funded by Sida, 96 funded by consumers and 38
funded by the DH Company, with 44 substations remaining to be rebuilt in the Ropka area. These
remaining substations in the Ropka area should be rebuilt in order to allow the full utilization of the
connection pipeline between Ropka and Turu/Luunja networks.
Modernization of the network was achieved through: (a) installation of 6.6 km of modem preinsulated
pipe, including joints, fitting and valves, and 0.6 km of steel pipe, insulated during installation, representing
about 92% of the appraisal estimate of 7.8 km of pipes; and (b) installation of about 3 km of additional
new pipes funded by Tartu DH Company. It is estimated that the life of the network has been extended by
about 10 years as compared to the pre-project status, in part due to the modernization and in part due to the
improved water quality.
Water losses have been reduced significantly due to the project investments. Due to the investments to
introduce indirect domestic hot water utilization in areas where domestic hot water had previously been
taken directly from the DH networks, completed in July 1996, make-up water requirements for this reason
were reduced from 560,000 m3 in 1992 to zero in 1997 and thereafter. Due to the savings resulting from
further investments in network leaks, a further reduction of make-up water was achieved from 740,000 m3
in 1992 to 134,000 m3 in 1999. Thus, total water consumption has declined by almost 90% between 1992
and 1999. Moreover, investments in water treatment facilities at several boiler houses has further helped to
extend the life of the network through reduction of corrosion.
The boiler conversion component originally foresaw conversion of five boilers in the Luunja and Ropka
boiler plant, but was reduced to four boilers with roughly the same capacity, essentially due to high bid
prices. The contracts for the conversions were already concluded in September 1994 (i.e., four months
after Board presentation) and were basically completed in autumn 1995 with satisfactory performance tests
run in late 1995 and early 1996.
The conversions, complete with solid fuel storage and handling systems, installation of fluidized bed
technology (requiring a "de-rating" of boilers from 40 MW to 18 MW capacity), and related ash-removal
and cooling systems, allowed to bum sod peat or milled peat, wood chips, saw dust or bark in the converted
facilities. This, together with use of wood or peat-based fuel use in some of the smaller boilers of Tartu,
helped replace the equivalent of about 27 million m3 of gas or 24,000 tons of oil, leading to savings at
present prices of about US$ 0.75 million per year. Of the total fuel input of 530 GWh in Tartu during
1999, 48% has been in the form of peat and wood-based fuels, thereby meeting the appraisal estimate,
which envisaged slightly less than 50% of total fuel input in the form of local fuels, as compared with zero
peat and wood fuel use in 1993. Initially peat represented about half the local fuel consumption during
1996 and 1997 but by 1999 it represented only about 20% with wood-based fuels representing the larger
- 13-



portion. Unfortunately, the local fuel boilers are now being utilized at only about 50-60% of their available
capacity and could still contribute to a greater extent to fuel cost and environmental savings.
The converted boilers and indeed the entire Tartu DH system faced a serious threat during late 1995 and
1996 when Tartu Gas started an offensive to maintain its gas market. Municipal decision makers and City
Council were led to believe that the conversions were not feasible and sustainable and that the project's
viability has been "rigged" to "appear economic." At the same time, DH consumers were being lured to
disconnect from DH and utilize gas in individual boilers. As the City Council believed that the economics
of the boiler conversions were below expectations, "no investments in further DH rehabilitation would be
permitted, until updated economic calculations demonstrated the viability of the investments." Indeed, the
Bank staff were accused of deliberately providing a misleading, overly-optimistic assessment of economic
viability, and a full assessment was requested, which was provided during a May 1996 mid-term review.
The renewed demonstration of the soundness of the Tartu investments coupled with a change in the City
administration after 1996 Fall elections allowed continued implementation of the component, although now
with a significant delay. The pipeline connection that was to allow the lower cost base-load heat from
Ropka to replace heat produced in the old gas-fired Turu boilers was dropped. The City decided later in
1998 to undertake, with its own funds, that connection, which was not completed until October 1999.
Today, all concerned officials in the central and local govemment as well as in the Tartu DH companies
agree that the project investments are economically sound and well justified, but that present operating
conditions are not adequate for sustainability, as the different parties have not yet agreed on a sound course
of action. The solution would include: (a) acknowledging that the old gas-fired Turu boiler house should
be operated as a peak load installation and the converted boilers as base load; (b) improving the heat tariff
policies to allow for more transparent pricing through the separation of production, transmission and
distribution and introduction of two-tier tariffs with fixed and variable componDnts; and (c) improving the
financial and operational information to allow for decisions to be based on rational criteria.
Overall the Tartu District Heating Rehabilitation Component is judged "Satisfactory" in its final outcome,
but was considered "Unsatisfactory" during several years. As an example of the seriousness of the matter
at the time, the Estonian Parliament pronounced in 1997 that the city of Trtu behaved irresponsibly,
suggesting that its assets were not used effectively.
Component B3: Parnu DHRehabilitation (Estimated Cost: US$ 5 million at Appraisal; Actual Cost:
US$ 5.5 million)
The Pamu System consisted of 9 larger and 14 small boilers and 40 kmn of network. The investment
component comprised: (a) conversion from fuel-oil firing to local fuels (peat or wood) of two boilers to
achieve almost 60% of energy substitution in the system and fuel cost reductions, (b) installation of
substations, regulators and heat meters; (c) modernization of the network through installation of modern
preinsulated pipe, variable speed pumps and complete monitoring and control system; and (d) improvement
of water treatment facilities at several boiler plants. Funding for earlier rehabilitation of substations was
provided by EBRD. The investments were completed largely in 1997.
The conversion of two boilers originally envisaged in the feasibility study and appraisal report was
abandoned in favor of complete boiler replacement. The fact that the offered cost of replacing the boilers
was about the same as the estimated cost for conversion allowed the City to decide in favor of new boilers.
The cost of the conversions was high because they were technically more difficult in the confines of the
limited space of the existing boiler house. The new boilers have a capacity of 7.5 MW each and were
- 14 -



commissioned in March and April/May 1996, respectively. The boilers have been in continuous operation
ever since.
Through the predominant use of wood, wood chips, peat and peat briquettes, the oil consumption by Pamu
DH company has come down continuously from 100% in 1992 to about 51% in 1997, then has crept up to
57% in 1999. This is above the proposed target which foresaw an oil use of about 42% by 1999. The key
reasons for a lower than forecast peat and wood utilization were the relatively low oil prices in 1998 and
1999 and some difficulties of Parnu DH company to secure the needed quantities of peat and wood on a
regular and sustained basis. However, the difficulties in securing local fuels have now been resolved, as
there is keen competition in the local fuels market. As oil prices have strongly recovered since the latter
part of 1999, the DH Company now plans to further increase the use of wood and peat-based fuels and to
expand the storage facility constructed under the Project by another 1,200 m3 of new capacity. Estimated
savings of the fuel substitution in 1999 amounted to about EEK 2.1 million (US$ 0.15 million), but had
already been as high as about EEK 4.3 million (US$ 0.31 million) in 1997.
The DH Company has also invested in the shutdown of small boilers and connection of these areas to the
DH network, with only 7 small boiler houses remaining in 1997.
The installation of substations was successfully implemented with a total of 222 new units installed and
equipped with new controls and heat meters as compared to 200 originally planned. All units were
connected to a new central monitoring and control system. Compared to the original simplified design,
more components were installed, on average, per substation than originally envisaged. By 1999, the DH
system comprised 293 substations (all modernized), with 45 funded by EBRD, 222 by EIB and the rest by
owners. The centralized management of these substations allows an optimal running of the network and
quick adaptation to temperature changes.
Modernization of the network: Under the project, about 4.5 km were rebuilt by using preinsulated pipes,
including a river crossing. This represents only 11% of the total network but is critical to its continued life.
It is estimated that this investment, together with the installation of over 150 network ball valves and
network variable speed pumps, has reduced maintenance in the network, decreased heat and water losses,
as well as extended the network's life by 10 years.
Water losses have been reduced significantly due to the investments. Due to the savings resulting from
network modernization and substation renovation as well as from introduction of indirect domestic hot
water utilization, make-up water was reduced from about 8-10 m3/hour in 1991 to about 0.5 m3/hour in
1999, i.e., by over 90%. Thus, total water consumption has declined to a level of about 400 m3/month.
Moreover, investment in water treatment facilities at several boiler houses has further helped to extend the
life of the network through reduction of corrosion. The selected water treatment investments included
reverse osmosis technology, for which the river water was not pure enough and therefore required
pretreatment of the water, which was not originally envisaged. Whereas the investment was completed in
1996, the contractual dispute over the incompatibility of the equipment with the available water supply has
been ongoing. In 2000, with the help of a Danish grant, equivalent to about US$ 1 million, the water
component is to be completed with the installation of the water pretreatment equipment.
Overall the Pamu District Heating Rehabilitation Component is judged "Highly Satisfactory." The
company referred to it as an "Optimal Project Scope" at the time of appraisal. The company has plans to
build a renewable energy resource-based CHP plant to further improve efficiency.
- 15 -



Component C: Improvement of Iru/lallinn CHP Plant (Estimated Cost at Appraisal: US $ 5 million;
Actual Cost: US$ 8.7 million)
The key objective of the Iru CHP Plant component was to improve its performance and efficiency. The
partial renovation of Iru CHP Plant consisted of: (a) renovation of an air preheater of the CHP blocks; (b)
rehabilitation of instrumentation and control systems of boilers; (c) installation of modem water treatment
equipment and provision of side stream filters of the DH water; and (d) supply ancd installation of variable
speed pumps. A gas pipeline to the plant had been completed in 1993, and the plant was able to benefit
from increased flexibility in fuel use. During implementation, it was recognized that the stack would
require replacement, which was added to the project scope. The new stack has contributed to improvement
of environmental conditions. Moreover, due to the improved draught of the new stack, a flue gas exhauster
was no longer needed, resulting in power savings for the plant operations. The addition of stack is the main
reason why the component cost increased. The component was completed and operational by end-1997.
The benefits from the implementation of the component are an improved reliability of the installed
equipment, better efficiency of process control and automation, and savings obtained through a the decrease
in maintenance costs and reduction of specific fuel consumption for heat and power production. The plant
has also improved efficiency through reduction of personnel from 270 persons in 1993 to 230 presently.
A project component rating of "Satisfactory" was maintained throughout the supervision of the project, but
the final outcome should be judged "Highly Satisfactory." Iru CHP Plant was partizularly pleased with the
renovation of the air preheater of block 2 under the Project and has subsequently used its own resources to
undertake a similar renovation at the other block. Eesti Energia also expressed satisfaction with the
leaming which the international procurement process introduced under the project. Such a process is now
routinely used by Eesti Energia.
Component D:   Institutional Support Program for Project Agencies (Estimated Cost at Appraisal:
US$ 3.6 million; Actual Cost: USS 3.9 million)
The Institutional Support Program was designed to provide assistance to government ministries,
municipalities, project DH companies and Iru CHP Plant, in the form of studies, implementation support,
formal and on-the-job training, as well as technical assistance in procurement, project supervision and
monitoring. The Estonian State Energy Department, reporting to the Ministry of Economy, received
support in procurement and disbursement services, in developing feasibility studies for small boiler
projects, and assistance in developing the legal and regulatory framework. The I)H companies received
substantial training, both on-the-job and through study tours of foreign DH companies. The municipalities
received assistance in restructuring their DH operations and support in implementing recommendations for
effective management and operations of the systems. This has greatly contributed to strengthening the
companies operationally and financially and has helped to prepare them for privatization. This component
is judged "Satisfactory" or better.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
The Project has had significant economic benefits in all its components. The key benefits have been reduced
fuel costs and import requirements, improved efficiency in DH systems and improvement of environmental
conditions in the affected areas. The economic rates of return (ERRs) at appraisal did not consider
environmental benefits. Thus, the weighted ERR for the Project amounted to 24.4% at appraisal as
compared to 22.5% today, the difference being largely due to the relative deterioration of the terms of trade
- 16-



between oil and renewables. However, when one considers environmental benefits, the weighted average
ERR increases to 58.5%. The assumptions underlying the ERRs of project components as well as the
weighted average ERRs for the total project, with and without environmental benefits, are elaborated in
Annex 3.
Table 1: Summary Economic Rates of Return
0C----- :A                                          ICDI
Without       With
environmental environmental
benefits     benefits
Small boiler conversion   29.2%       10.5%         20.5%
Small boiler replacement  9.8%        31.2%         45.6%
Tallinn DH rehabilitation  22.8%      24.0%
Tartu DH rehabilitation   28.5%       27.9%        101.3%
Pamu DH rehabilitation    27.8%       12.1%         87.4%
Iru power plant           18.1%       16.7%
improvement
Weighted ERR              24.4%       22.5%         58.5%
Note: The environmental benefits have been estimated based on international
cost emission benchmarks.
The project components have contributed to reducing energy imports thereby improving Estonia's trade
balance. Through this Project and other efforts, the share of indigenous wood, wood chips and waste, and
peat has increased from 3.5% in 1003 to 11% in 1998 of Estonia's primary energy resources.
Establishment of a market for wood fuel is having a positive impact on the economic situation and
development of the Estonian forestry sector. Use of wood fuels in heating is an important market for wood
and other tree biomass which is not required by the forestry industry, thereby improving the economy in the
forestry sector.
Also, the small boiler program has contributed to the development of Estonian manufacturers of energy
equipment and installation companies. Some of these companies are competing for and winning contracts
under other similar DH rehabilitation projects in neighboring countries of the region.
The Project has further contributed to the creation of permanent jobs in rural areas related to the
harvesting, transport and disposal of local fuels. It has been estimated that the local fuel harvesting and
transport business has created 200 jobs supporting Tartu's local fuel consumption. When the jobs created
for Pamu and other small municipalities are considered, a significant number of jobs have been created
overall under the Project.
4.4 Financial rate of rettrn:
A FRR calculation for this Project was not made at the time of appraisal; therefore an FRR was not
calculated at completion.
- 17 -



Financial Performance of DH Companies: The financial performance of DII companies generally
improved during the project period, with all companies showing profits on operalions by the end of the
Project, with the exception of several of the Tartu DH companies. As a result, all DH companies are
repaying the loans from the World Bank, Sweden and EIB according to schedule, with the exception of
Tartu where only a part of the World Bank loan has been repaid to the Ministry of Einance which has been
repaying the loan out of its reserve funds. If the privatization of the DH system in Tartu is successful, the
proceeds from the privatization are expected to be utilized to repay all loans in full, including the overdue
amounts.
Loan Repayment Performance of Small Boiler Projects: The loan repayment performance of the 36
completed small boiler projects is relatively good, with 21 projects paid in full and on schedule as of
end-June 1999, with the balance of 15 projects experiencing some delays. Three of the 15 projects (Muhu,
Vonnu and Vana Antsla) are judged as problematic due mainly to the economic difficulties in these areas.
The Ministry of Finance has been following up on repayments and it is expected that some cities will
reschedule their loan repayments. Payment performance has been related to the general economic situation
or budgetary problems and is not related to the performance of the small boiler projects.
Hleat Tariffs: Heat tariffs increased during the early years of project implementation but have remained
relatively stable during the latter years due largely to the efficiency gains achieved under the Project. In
Tallinn, heat tariffs have not increased since July 1998 and have been EEK 349/MWh for both household
and industrial consumers. Similarly, in Tartu, heat tariffs have not increased for the past three years and
have been EEK 334/MWh for consumers without substation improvements and EEK 354/MWh for
consumers with substation improvements. Furthernore, in Parnu, heat tariffs are now currently EEK
370/MWh for consumers without substation improvements and EEK 380/MWh for consumers with
substation improvements. In all cities, cross-subsidies have been reduced, with industrial consumers paying
the same tariffs as residential consumers. Of the 41 heating systems which are members of the Estonian
District Heating Association where tariffs range from about EEK 250/MWh to EEK 430/MWh, Tartu's
heat tariff has been ranked in the top 10 lowest heat tariffs in Estonia. Considering that the top 5 lowest
tariffs are in heating systems based on oil shale-produced heat, Tartu's performance is judged very good.
Talilhin and Pamu's performance in stabilizing heat tariffs is also judged very good.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project has had a major impact on the DH sector throughout Estonia. Under the DH rehabilitation
component, the three major cities (Tallinn, Tartu and Pamu) received substantial iinvestment support and
technical assistance to help improve the competitiveness of their district heating enterprises with alternative
heat sources and to improve their operations, management and financial situation. This has helped the cities
and their enterprises to prepare for privatization, which is already well underway. In the case of Tallinn,
the Iru CHP Plant improvement component helped to achieve more efficient heat and power production.
Eesti Energy, the owner of Iru CHP Plant is also planning to introduce a profit center approach towards the
Inr CHP plant to be able to have transparent financial data and allow for optimal utilization of the plant.
Under the small boiler conversion and replacement component, over one hundred cities received
substantial teclnical assistance to prepare feasibility studies for project preparation and assessment.
Whereas only 36 projects were executed under the Project, many other municipalities have been enabled by
this action to attract funding to implement their projects as well. For the Government, this Project also has
demonstrated the need for improved sector regulation. The Energy Law of June 29, 1999 reflected these
lessons and introduced a regulatory framework in line with the EU acquis comrnunautaire. Regulatory
responsibilitv was transferred from the municipalities to an Energy Market Inspectorate by the Energy
- 18 -



Law.  The institutional development component has been instrumental in bringing about these
achievements by providing sector studies, assisting in implementation as well as by helping to improve the
management procedures and information systems in many of the companies. In this regard, the Project
could be judged "Highly Satisfactory."
- 19-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or imiplementing agency:'
Foreign Energy Supply: Shortly after renewed independence of Estonia in 1991, the imports of gas and
oil from Russia in the winter of 1992/93 were curtailed or delayed a number of times. This caused much
concern among the new Government and the population of Estonia and led to a strategy of energy resource
diversification. Indeed, the strategy to rely more on indigenous resources, such as peat and wood, was
reinforced at the time and led to the idea of conversion/replacement of DH boilers to accommodate these
local fuels, which became a core objective of the Project. As this was, at the same time, a strategy which
would help improve the economics of DH systems, reduce local pollution and even contribute to reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, the Bank was keen to support this strategy, and was therefore also able to attract
other donors to participate in the funding of the Project and related technical assistance (EIB, BITS/Sida,
EU, Danish and other bilateral support). The policy of utilization of local fuels and diversification of fuel
supplies continues today as a priority of the Government.
International Energy Prices: Estonia made great efforts immediately after its renewed independence, to
bring energy prices, particularly those of imported fuels (oil, gas, coal), to international levels in the
domestic market. This initially had a serious impact on the heating sector, where prices had been extremely
low previously, and inefficiencies and waste had been rampant. As this affected the majority of the
population, the country implemented social support schemes very early on. This helped dampen the effect
of the international prices on the poor consumers and reduced the danger of rapidly accumulating arrears,
which would have translated into huge receivables and possible eventual bankruptcy of the newly
municipal-owned companies.
Nevertheless, passing through international fuel prices into DH tariffs also exposed the country to the
gyrations of international fuel supply and demand. Thus, the huge drop in oil prices in 1998/99 had a
significant impact on the operations of heat producers who had switched to local fuels. While many DH
companies increased the use of oil during this period, one DH company, namely Pamu, significantly
increased the use of oil again in non-replaced boilers at the expense of local fuels. The reversal of the
international prices in late 1999, however, has already caused a switch back to the cheaper local fuels.
5.2 Factors generally sutbject to governnment control:
Regulation of Heat Tariffs: The Govemment had already in 1992 moved to passing the costs of primary
energy imports (gas, oil, coal), which had reached prices near world market levels, through to customers in
the form of heat tariff increases. In recognition of the resulting very high proportion of famnilies' incomes to
be spent on heating only, the Govemment also provided for a social support schenne, which supported the
very poor and vulnerable groups in meeting their energy bills. However, in 1994, it became apparent to the
municipalities, now in charge of pricing, that further increases would be necessary.  The Project
acknowledged that there was a risk of heat tariff increases not being implemented, and moreover, because
of political and social considerations, tariffs covering residential heat might be kept too low and
cross-subsidized by higher than justified industrial tariffs. Cross-subsidization of heat tariffs turned out to
be the case in all major cities but had particularly severe consequences in Tartu which lost many industrial
customers as a result, further precipitating the decline in demand.
- 20 -



Ensuring Fair Competition: There were clear indications during project implementation that the well
organized, gas supply company was not going to stand by idly watching its market share erode due to
conversion from gas to local or other fuels. Indeed, in Tallinn and especially in Tartu (Pamu is not
connected to the gas supply), aggressive marketing schemes were put into place to attract customers away
from DH. These proposals involved low-cost financing of gas connections and needed heating installations,
as well as offers for low-cost gas supply contracts during a period of two years. In addition, during a
substantial part of the project period, gas prices were not differentiated for large and small consumers or
based on the actual costs of supply, which led to unfair competition of individual gas boilers with DH.
During most of the project implementation period, a country-wide regulatory framework was not in place,
but rather regulation of DH was the responsibility of municipalities. It would have been in the interest of
municipalities to develop heat master plans, designating areas of the municipalities in which either DH or
gas would be maintained/developed, in order to protect the assets from being undermined by predatory
pricing practices, but this did not take place.
Towards the end of the Project during 1999, a new country-wide regulator, the Energy Market
Inspectorate, was established in accordance with the Energy Law. Certain officials have claimed that the
Energy Market Inspectorate has not required DH enterprises to separate the costs of heat production,
transmission and distribution to allow for greater transparency in tariff setting. Separation of such costs
would be expected to more clearly demonstrate the benefits of utilizing the full capacity of Tartu's Luunja
and Ropka boilers based on local fuels. A two-tier tariff which would make the fixed and variable costs
transparent, and which was being advocated by the Bank staff, would further help to clear the situation,
thereby allowing to find a viable solution for the overall system operation. It is recommended that the
Energy Market Inspectorate be more proactive in deciding on how the competition between DH and gas
should be regulated in Estonia, so that a long-term optimum can be achieved.
5.3 Factors generally siubject to implementing agency control:
System Development and Operation: The problems in Tartu illustrate the need for the owners, i.e.,
municipalities, of DH systems to base their judgments on clear information about economic and financial
performance, so that requirements for system development can be evaluated and justified and operations
can be optimized over the entire system. The intense and emotional dispute which arose in Tartu over the
use of local fuels in competition with gas led to a distortion of rational economics. The belated network
connection in Tartu now clearly shows that this investment was an important prerogative for the
competitive operation of the system.  Basing judgments on economic information would help to
demonstrate that the gas-fired boiler in Tartu should be run according to its best economic benefits, i.e. as a
peak-load boiler which can be easily switched on and off as the outside temperature in winter would
require, and not as the base-load boiler, since base load from boilers run on cheaper wood and peat fuels
helps to reduce operating costs. A rational approach to systems operations would also lead to a reduction
of personnel at the gas-fired boiler house and to introduction of an automatic call on the boiler depending
on the changing heat demand of the system, which is now possible as a result of the project investments,
with all the substations continuously monitoring demand and centralizing the informnation at the central
controls.
Ensuring Sufficient Local Fuel Supplies: At the time of project appraisal, there was a risk that the level
of local fuel supplies might not be sufficient to operate the boilers on a sustained basis. Whereas the
consultant studies had indicated sufficient stands of forests and regular harvesting for sustainable supply of
wood products, as well as sufficient peat supplies over periods far exceeding the project life, locally at a
- 21 -



given municipality, the supply might not be adequate. In order to minimize this risk, prior to project
commencement, municipalities which planned to convert their boilers to use local fuels would be required
to enter into contracts for supply of at least 60% of the local fuel requirements for two years. Indeed,
under the small boiler conversion/replacement program, some communities were not able, initially, to
provide such contractual arrangements. In those communities and large cities where two-year supply
contracts were executed, this has proved to be a useful risk-reducing arrangement, as it has helped to build
the market for local fuels, assuring suppliers and DH companies alike that the required investments on both
sides would be utilized as planned. As a result, the market for the local fuels started to develop rather
rapidly, with satisfactory regulatory arrangements by the forestry and environmental authorities to assure
sustainable and envir6nmentally acceptable exploitation arrangements for wood and peat. Very soon, keen
competition came about and prices have remained relatively stable for these fuels, almost in line with the
relatively stable prices for gas. Even for the relatively large cities of Tartu and Parnu, the supply of peat
and wood has stabilized and is considered sustainable over the future life of the Project. In several markets
of local fuels, waste products, formnerly representing an environmental problem have been turned into a
steady stream of competitive fuel supply (e.g. saw-dust, bark).
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was estimated at EEK 870.7 million, equivalent to US$ 64.5 million, at
appraisal. A loan of US$38.4 million from the World Bank would cover 60% of the project costs, with the
balance to be covered by a loan from Sweden in the amount of US$ 10.0 million, a loan from the EIB in the
amount of US$ 4.4 million (ECU 5 million), grants from donors in the amoant of US$ 3.8 million
equivalent, and contributions from the participating project agencies in the amount of US$ 7.9 million.
The cost estimates and financing plan as estimated at appraisal and at project completion are included in
Annex 2 "Project Costs and Financing." In the end, the final project cost and sources of financing differed
only slightly from the original estimates. The final project cost was US$ 59.8 rmillion or about 7% less
than the original estimate. The key factors which had an impact on the costs a,s estimated at appraisal
included the following: (a) the cost of consumer substation rehabilitation and heat meters proved to be
considerably less expensive due to competitive bidding and the large quantities per package (US$ 10.9
million as compared to the estimate of US$ 17.7 million); (b) the size of the small boiler
conversion/replacement program was significantly reduced (from US$ 12.8 million to US$ 7.4 million) due
to reductions in the scope of the conversion program; and (c) the savings realized were utilized to finance
the construction of a new stack at Iru CHP Plant and additional quantities of DH equipment included in the
project description.
The key factors which resulted in differences in the final financing plan as compared to the original plan
included the following: (a) the requirements for both the Bank and Swedish loans were reduced when the
small boiler conversion program was scaled down; (b) the requirement for the Swedish loan was further
reduced when the then Tartu city management decided to stop further investments in the DH system; and
(c) EIB provided additional financing in the amount of about US$ 2.2 million for substation and heat
metering investments under the Tallinn DH rehabilitation component which had been foreseen to be
financed by the Bank. As a result, US$ 2.08 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be canceled shortly,
with USS 36.32 million equivalent disbursed. Similarly, US$ 3.38 million of the Swedish loan was
canceled, with US$ 6.62 million disbursed.
- 22 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilitv r-ating:
A continuous supply of local fuels, such as saw dust, bark, wood and wood chips as well as peat, is
essential for the sustainability of the project components involving conversion to these fuels (Tartu, Pamu,
small boilers in other municipalities). Adequate regulations in forestry management and by environmental
authorities regulating peat extraction help to assure the required supplies of local fuels. Indeed, the growth
of identified peat resources exceeds the growth of peat use. Similarly, the growing market in wood-based
fuels has identified many sources previously considered as waste. Thus, there is further scope for local
fuel-substitution, and a number of investors are currently considering to introduce small CHP installations
based on renewable energy resources to further improve energy efficiency, while helping to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions and thereby helping to mitigate against climate change.
Furthermore, the investments under the Project led to efficiency gains and cost savings which improved the
financial viability of DH companies and improved their attractiveness for privatization, which is now
underway. Improved efficiency and lowered costs have also led to the improved competitiveness of DH
companies viz-a-viz alternative heating options (individual gas heating, oil heating), making them more
attractive targets for privatization. Moreover, improvement of DH systems has helped to improve
environmental performance, which in turn has assisted companies to meet environmental standards. This is
not only important in the local context for improved living conditions but once again increases the chances
for privatization.
In addition, consultant support, training and technical assistance for management system improvements
helped DH companies to improve management, technical operations and general housekeeping, allowing
companies to further reduce costs as a result of improvements in system optimization. The improved
management systems have allowed a better understanding of companies' strengths and weakness. In turn,
managers have started to address the weaknesses and build on their strengths.
Privatization of the DH companies is already under way. With a proper regulatory regime in place and the
municipalities in process of withdrawing from ownership of the DH systems, the ground is being prepared
for a competitive development of the heat market including newly-privatized DH companies as well as
companies offering alternative heating options.
Regarding the special case of Tartu, if the political and emotional problems in the Tartu DH system are
overcome, Tartu could perform well and reap the full benefits from the project components, which would
help to make the DH system and companies sustainable. It is hoped that introduction of the proposed
measures as well as the ongoing privatization will eventually lead to this situation.
Apart from the Tartu case, the Project would have been rated "Highly Satisfactory." However, given the
still pending problems in Tartu, which are expected to be overcome shortly, the project's sustainability is
rated "Satisfactory."
- 23 -



6.2 Transition arrangenment to reguilar operations:
One can consider the corporatized companies to represent "regular operations," provided a sound
regulatory framework, including a strong regulatory agency is in place. An important step in this direction
was the early commercialization of DH companies and their transfer to municipal ownership in 1993.
Corporatization and selected restructuring of DH companies took place during project implementation. A
more advanced step, privatization, is already under way or being considered for DH companies in the larger
cities. Iru CHP Plant is expected to remain under the ownership of Eesti Energia but is planned to be
established as a separate daughter company (i.e. profit center) in the near future, allowing for a more
transparent operation.
Whereas there is scope for further improvement of the Energy Market Inspectorate, as the case of Tartu
illustrates, the fact that this independent agency can be called upon to address outstanding issues is a major
improvement to the prior situation of regulation by the municipalities which is subject to local politics.
Two-tier DH tariffs distinguishing between fixed and variable costs remains to be introduced to improve
transparency of pricing in the sector.
The improvements to the "enabling environment," i.e., the development of a new legal framework for
energy, including DH, the setting-up of a regulatory framework and agency for the sector, in parallel with
project implementation and in part supported by it, have been milestones during the transition. After the
sustained functioning of such a system for a number of years, Estonia may consider moving to a
self-regulating system for DH, with oversight by public service commissions representing consumer
interests, as is the case in a number of Scandinavian countries.
-24 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank team was well equipped with early experiences from the implementation of the DH project in
Poland and with a number of professional feasibility studies on the Estonian energy and heating sector.
The comprehensive focus of the Bank team on the DH sector throughout Estonia was considered helpful by
the central Government and municipalities alike as it allowed for addressing issues of the institutional,
legal, regulatory and tariff-setting nature, as well as specific issues of municipalities, while affording a
"learning from each other" mode throughout the country.
The insistence of the Bank team to scale down overly-optimistic demand forecasts of the consultants was
helpful and took into account the efficiency improvements on the supply side expected to result from the
project investments. However, even the reduction of demand forecasts was not sufficient to capture the
subsequently evolving reality of further declining demand due to: (a) efficiency improvements on the
demand side (which became possible and necessary due to installations of meters under the project and
rising energy tariffs), and (b) the decline in the number of industrial customers due to a misguided policy of
cross-subsidization at the expense of industrial customers. The Bank team had warned about this latter
development, advocating instead a two-tier tariff and elimination of cross-subsidies. Another aspect which
had not been foreseen in the demand forecasts, to the extent necessary, was the aggressive fight of the
competing gas supplier to maintain or recapture market share as well as the lack of marketing efforts of
DH companies to maintain or increase their share of customers, especially in Tartu, until the latter stages
of project implementation.
The Bank team was particularly effective in making needed arrangements to transfer knowledge to the
sector with regard to developing a sector strategy, setting up a legal and regulatory framework, developing
management systems, technical and technology improvements, and procurement arrangements.
7.2 Supervision:
General: The fact that the Bank team did not change significantly over time and continued to be managed
by the same task manager was very beneficial for the Project and its implementation. The Estonian side
expressed its particular appreciation for the continued guidance by the competent and able task manager.
Moreover, the Bank's Tallinn Branch Office was very helpful to support the dialogue, arrange for missions
and meetings and ably follow-up on specific issues.
Implementation Support:  The Project was closely supervised from  Washington and during two
supervision missions per year, on average, totaling 11 missions over the life of the Project. These missions
addressed performance to-date and outstanding issues as well as planning for next steps. The missions
made it a special point to meet with representatives of the central Government (Ministries of Finance and
Economy), with Mayors and City Council representatives as well as management and staff of DH
companies. Concise and comprehensive mission reports about progress performance, issues encountered
and further planning were a hallmark of this Project.
- 25 -



Guidance Regarding Energy Sector Strategy, Legal and Regulatory Framework: The Bank team was
supportive in the development of a sound sector strategy and legal and regulatory framework which would
help the sector to develop under a decentralized market-oriented environment. This was achieved by
provision of technical assistance early in the Project as well as through an ongoing dialogue about issues
and problems encountered during supprvision missions. The experiences in other former centrally planned
economies were readily shared allowing Estonia to make "educated" decisions.
Guidance Regarding Tariff Policies: Bank staff were not very successful in convincing municipalities
and DH companies to refrain from cross-subsidizing residential customers through inflated industrial
tariffs. This had to be appreciated by the negative experience of losing significant numbers of industrial
customers, before this misguided policy was abolished. The Bank team was also not able to convince the
municipalities and DH companies to introduce two-tier tariff systems. This may, however, materialize
after privatization.
Invitation to Share Knowledge With Other Countries: From the beginning, the Project was led by the
motto: "leaming from each other." This motto was even expanded across the borders of Estonia. Thus, the
Bank team invited delegations from other countries (e.g. Poland) to make presentations about their
experience in DH restructuring and modernization. Similarly, Estonian specialists were sent for training to
other countries such as Denmark, Sweden and Finland to learn about the state-of-the-art systems and
technology. The Bank team also arranged for Estonian managers and experts to make presentations about
their own lessons learned to groups of visitors from other countries contemp[ating undertaking DH
rehabilitation projects (e.g. Bulgaria, Lithuania and Ukraine). The Estonian counterparts met recently
expressed their sincere appreciation for these efforts.
Mid-term review: As a result of the accusations during 1996 by the then Mayor of Tartu concerning the
economics of the Tartu component, the Bank team used the mid-term review of the Project to reassess the
economic and financial merits of the Tartu DH rehabilitation component. This was done with the help of
independent Bank staff and others, participating in the mission and all discussions. The resulting report
demonstrated the soundness of the project concept, scope and implementation to-date, especially regarding
the conversion of four boilers to use of local fuels. During a recent visit, the Estonian counterparts at all
levels confirmed that this mission had cleared the confusion resulting from a fight of two opposing parties.
They termed the mission report of June 1996 as "very professional and objective" and were particularly
appreciative of the fact that the Bank had remained a rational and objective advisor in spite of the gravity
of the accusations. Whereas the situation started to be partially remedied only about a year later, and is
still not fully resolved, the consistency of the Bank's position and the soundness of advice was recognized
by all parties involved.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In the light of above experiences, the performance of the Bank team is rated as better than "Satisfactory."
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
General: The DH sector of Estonia, during Soviet times had been administered centrally out of Moscow
(Ministry of Energy). After re-independence there was an eagemess to decentralize DH systems to the
municipal level. Moreover, the winter of 1992/93 had brought hardships to the population as a result of
delayed or interrupted shipments of oil and gas from Russia. Thus, a decentralized sector which would
- 26 -



diversify into use of local fuels such as peat, wood and wood wastes was considered essential towards the
sustained well-being of the population. This explains the eagerness and drive of local officials to proceed
quickly with a comprehensive DH project which would help address the facets of institutional
arrangements, legal and regulatory underpinnings, technical investments, fuel substitution and
improvements of operations.
Project Preparation Performance: The strong motivation at all levels of Estonian counterparts helped to
set common goals for the Project and its components, fostered a tight timetable and a quick and effective
preparation. As a result, the most complex and difficult procurement item (large boiler conversions)
already led to contract signatures a few months after Bank Loan signature and even before Bank Loan
effectiveness.
The motto of "leaming from each other" was all pervasive and the Estonian counterparts went out of their
way to provide information, "swallow" difficult lessons (e.g. the Bank's procurement rules were considered,
at least initially, as complex and difficult, but their application was seen as a long-term advantage) and to
promote accepted agendas.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
General: Sharing experiences continued throughout project implementation, with excellent cooperation
provided by all parties involved (apart from the temporary Tartu issues). Implementation proceeded
according to established timetables for most of the components, and the majority of project investments had
already been completed by end-1997. Thereafter, the learning curve with the new equipment was steep,
and the Estonian counterparts were keen to learn from consulting services provided as well. On the other
hand, the process of developing a sound legal and regulatory framework was protracted in the
newly-established democracy and only led to a progressive law and independent regulatory authority during
1999.
Implementation: The Ministry of Finance administered the on-lending of the Bank, Sida and EIB loans
and also supervised the implementation of the small boiler component, in close cooperation with the
Ministry of Economy which managed a small Project Implementation Unit (PIU) supported by international
consultants.  Within the small boiler component, ultimate beneficiaries sometimes considered that
procurement was too cumbersome and slow, being handled centrally out of Tallinn. Some project agencies
even stated that a direct relationship between the Bank and the DH company would have been preferable
(as was the case in the Poland DH Project). Whereas the Bank normally also prefers a direct relationship
with the Borrower, considering the size of the project components and particularly that of the small boiler
component, this would not have been practical from the Bank's point of view.
When the option to convert the Bank's currency pool Loan to a single currency loan in Deutsch Marks
(DEM) was provided, many sub-borrowers considered that the Ministry of Finance was not sufficiently
helpful to convert all sub-loans to DEM-denominated loans in order to minimize foreign exchange risk.
In the case of the political turmoil of Tartu during 1996, the Government had a particularly difficult task.
Even Parliament became involved and in 1997 reprimanded the City that it was not utilizing its assets in
economic ways. Not surprisingly, even today, some City officials feel that the Government was not
sufficiently supportive of the Tartu component.
On the other hand, the Government has consistently acted as a facilitator for the smooth implementation of
the Project.
- 27 -



7.6 ImplementingAgency:
The PIU for the small boiler program did a good job to coordinate the original preparatory work, evaluate
projects and provide assistance to the individual municipalities. Thus, in spite of the grumbling of a few,
the majority of participating municipalities was satisfied with the support received.
The Tallinn and Pamu DH Companies, and the management of the Iru CIP Plant, were keen and eager to
implement their respective project components and managed them well. Their cooperation in all respects
was outstanding. All enterprises were highly motivated, and this combined with the support they received
from the respective municipalities and consultants, as well as Eesti Energia in the case of Iru CHP Plant,
led to smooth project implementation.
The Tartu component, on the other hand, is an example of a project component beinlg held up, delayed and
benefits diminished, when a fight over local fuels made decision makers lose sight of the overall benefits of
the Project. Thus, at times, the performance of the Tartu City authorities and the DH companies'
management was unsatisfactory. The situation has much improved by now, but further improvements are
still required for the investments and the DH system to develop their full economic potential.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In the light of above experiences, the performance of the Borrower and project agencies is rated as better
than "Satisfactory".
- 28 -



8. Lessons Learned
General: The Estonia District Heating Rehabilitation Project has been a large and complex project with
many different components. It was demand-driven throughout Estonia, i.e. the Estonian Government, Eesti
Energia, municipalities and DH companies wanted and supported the Project. Thus, it showed a strong
level of ownership by the Borrower and project beneficiaries. Moreover, it came at the right time,
addressing high priority issues shortly after re-independence. Nevertheless, apart from the normal
implementation difficulties and problems encountered in any such complex project, there were a number of
valuable lessons. These concern: (a) demand forecasts; (b) tariff policies; and (c) competition with gas.
In addition, there a a number of further lessons which are highlighted below.
Demand Forecasts: Like many of the first projects of the early 1990's in the DH sectors of former
centrally planned economies, the demand forecasts of this Project were overly-optimistic. This has been a
common problem in other public utility sectors as well, for example, in water supply and waste water
treatment projects. In the case of DH, it was anticipated that consumers would want a "normal" level of
indoor heating (1 8-200C) if it were available, because DH was being rationed due to the inability to secure
or pay for necessary fuel supplies, and thus demand was projected to grow. However, the projected
demand growth did not materialize. Demand for DH remained, at best, stable in Parnu but declined further
in Tallinn and Tartu. The introduction of cost covering tariffs, combined with the possibility to measure
and regulate consumption at the building level, led to a reaction among customers to save energy instead.
Subsequent investments into insulation and energy efficiency measures further depressed demand. In
addition, a number of industrial consumers disconnected from DH due to uncompetitive tariffs. However,
even with the unforeseen decline in demand which affected the economics of the project components to
some extent and the financial position of DH companies, there were still major benefits resulting from the
investments and the DH tariffs that have had to be charged have remained competitive.
Future DH projects should scrutinize demand projections and the factors which affect demand very
carefully. In cities where DH is facing unfair competition from alternative heating options, consideration
should be given to specifying areas where DH is the required heating option until the factors leading to the
unfair competition are removed, in order to preserve DH demand. Cross-subsidies should be removed or
reduced as early as possible in order to improve DH competitiveness and thereby maintain existing large
industrial consumers. Greater efforts to identify new DH consumers should also be undertaken. The
project design should consider how small, isolated heating systems can be connected to the larger, more
efficient DH system as well as whether parts of the DH system are uneconomic and should be closed down
to allow for alternative heating options. Demand forecast analysis should also consider the results of social
assessments which help to forecast consumers' reactions and responses to possible tariff increases and the
ability to measure and regulate heat consumption.
Tariff Policies: Appropriate tariff policies play an important role in maintaining DH consumers and thus
the viability of DH systems. It has been shown through this Project, as well as elsewhere, that establishing
DH tariffs above costs for one group of customers, such as industries, in order to cross-subsidize another
group, such as residents, will lead to the loss of the customers from the group paying higher than the
competitive tariffs. As the DH system is capital intensive and thus has relatively high fixed costs, a decline
in demand increases the portion of fixed costs which the remaining customers have to carry and can lead to
its loss in competitiveness. Two-tier tariff policies allow for the transparent pricing of DH based on fixed
and variable costs and thus allow DH companies to charge for actual costs of supply, rather than tariffs
-29 -



based on estimates of costs made at the beginning of the heating season which may be either too high or too
low. Therefore, two-tier tariffs are beneficial to both DH producers and consumers. Also, gas prices, if
not properly differentiated to reflect the actual costs of supply to the various categories of consumers, such
as large and small consumers, can also result in unfair competition with DH. Therefore, transparency of
tariffs and maintaining competitiveness with other heat providers should be a prime goal of DH tariff
policy.
Competition With Gas: When designing DH projects, it is highly important to properly assess risks
associated with the potential for competition from gas, or other alternatives, to DH. It is unfortunate that
the competing gas company in Tartu managed to convince the then Mayor in 1996 about the attractiveness
of gas and the "erroneous project concept to use local fuels." The problem is still not fully solved, and the
loss to the consumers has been substantial. This development has had an impact not only on the project
investments which have been delayed but also has affected consumers' attitudes towards DH. As a result of
the controversy, the decline in demand, as compared to the growth projections, was most pronounced in the
case of Tartu. The political risk of an administration change which would "disown" a project is difficult to
mitigate against. A course of action and particular remedies which the City and the DH companies can
take to improve the situation have been elaborated and are now being considered and pursued, including
privatization of the DH system, but some of the losses, such as the lost consumers, niay never be regained.
Other lessons:
Project "ownership" by the Borrower and project beneficiaries is key to the successful implementation of a
Project. The positive experience with the project agencies involved in Tallinn, Pamu and Iru CHP Plant as
well as in the small boiler program illustrates the point, and Tartu shows what can happen if the situation
changes.
The beneficial impact resulting from the continuity of a competent Bank team working consistently on
project preparation and implementation should be recognized. Even during the difficult mid-term review of
the Tartu component, the Bank's insistence on an open-minded rational assessment by independent Bank
staff and consultants helped to demonstrate the merits of the Project and the credibility of the Bank team
once more.
When the Bank's Procurement Guidelines are considered to be difficult and cumbersome, it is important to
take corrective action as quickly as possible. Complaints arose in the use of the Bank's suggested and
newly-evolving bidding documents for the Supply and Installation of Plant that were to be utilized for the
small boiler conversion/replacement projects and that were generally very small in nature, each less than
US$ 1 million in value. As a result of the early unsuccessful attempts to utilize the sample bidding
document, the Bank agreed and assisted the Ministry of Economy to develop a simpliified bidding document
more appropriate for smaller projects. After simplification, the bidding process for small boiler projects
proceeded smoothly. Other project agencies genuinely appreciated the experience they gained fi-om a
competitive procurement process and from use of the Bank's procedures and documents in particular. The
result was that project agencies have abandoned their less effective earlier procuremrent practices in favor
of competitive bidding.
Addressing the sector strategy and legal, regulatory and institutional issues was a major success of this
Project and demonstrates the benefits of a comprehensive and holistic approach to the Bank's project
lending. During project implementation, work proceeded on all these fronts so that now the sector is ready
for "normal operations" and privatization.
- 30 -



The motto of "learning from each other" is worthwhile in such a comprehensive project and extremely
effective. Going beyond national boundaries has played an important role in helping the Estonian
counterparts to absorb knowledge and to pass on the results of their learning experience as well.
- 31 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
General: During a recent mission, representatives of central and local Government and the DH companies
were provided with copies of key parts of the draft ICR, as well as a list of specific questions about their
project components, objectives, scope, implementation performance and results achieved. They have
provided verbal and written feedback which has been incorporated into the final ICR. The written
comments are available on electronic file.
Some specific comments deserve explicit recognition as follows:
Regarding the use of local, renewable energy resources, a representative of the Ministry of Economy
emphasized that the increasing use of wood-based fuels is beneficial not only with regard to the DH
companies' financial performance but also with regard to the global environment. The CO2 emissions are
considered at zero level for wood-based fuels. Thus, the development away from peat and towards a
greater use of wood-based fuels which could be observed in Tartu is a very desirable development. The
management of both Tartu as well as Parnu DH companies emphasized that, prior to 1995, the market for
renewables was practically non-existent. In addition, the use of wood waste (bark, saw dust) has further
helped to stabilize the prices for wood-based fuels. Thus, a new industry has developed and is bound to
stay.
Regarding lessons learned, the Tartu DH Company has written: "We got a lot of experience in several
fields (technical, economic, environmental); we got much good and useful inforrnation and knowledge about
new and modem technologies from several other companies, several institutionis and several people
(experts). And the DH system gained more trust on the side of the consumers." This has also been
emphasized by Tallinn and Parnu DH companies as well.
The Tartu DH Company further emphasized: "The price of part of the loan has become quite high: (in
1994 the US$ was at EEK 12, in March 2000 it is at EEK 17). We asked the Government to transfer
(convert) the loan to Deutsch Marks, but did not get a reaction." Converting the Bank's Loan to Deutsch
Marks was possible under the Bank policy for loan products which was introduced during project
implementation.
Regarding the performance of the Government, the City and the Bank, the Tartu DH Company has written:
"The Government did not perform  at all...., The city performed quite normally, sometimes better,
sometimes worse. The Bank performed very correctly, civilized, and with understanding to our problems.
It was a very good cooperation. Lot's of thanks to the task manager."
The Iru CHP Plant management has written: 'The Iru rehabilitation was definitely right in its objectives,
project scope, as well as right for the interests of the Tallinn District Heating Company. The Project
objectives were achieved and the technical level was good."  Similar statements were made by all
companies visited (Tallinn, Tartu and Pamu DH companies and a small boiler plant converted to
wood-based fuel use (Adavere)).
- 32 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
The Project had two major co-financiers providing investment funding and a number of smaller
contributions from the EU and bilateral sources to provide technical assistance and institutional support
within and outside the immediate project scope, but in any case related to the Project. The EIB co-financed
one entire component, namely the Parnu DH rehabilitation and contributed to the Tallinn DH rehabilitation
component. EIB completed the Parnu component during 1998 with a project completion report which is on
file in the Bank. Sida funded a considerable portion of the small boiler program and the Tartu component.
Sida has prepared the following comments: "Sida has very much appreciated the cooperation with the
World Bank in this Project, and the possibility to plan and later review its components together with the
World Bank in well organized joint missions. The management of the Project from the World Bank's side
has been highly professional, and Sida gained much experience from this cooperation. As a matter of fact,
this Project, being a pilot lending operation for Sida, has contributed to the development of a new Sida
strategy for energy assistance in Eastem Europe, emphasizing rehabilitation of existing assets and energy
efficiency improvements."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Additional information is in the Project Files and in the Annexes to this Report.
- 33 -






Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
SMALL BOILER CONVERSION/REPLACEMENT PROGRAM:
Dec 1995       Dec 1996    Dec 1997      Dec 1998   Dec 1999
.'.'-                     -T-*w' -'.4W T -    T's
Project Completion Degree:
Capacity of Projects
completed during the period (MW):
Conversions                    4.8   4.7    0    3.5   0.8   3.5         0      0             0
Replacements                   6.1   6.1   2.65   2.8    1.7   0.6   5.85    8.6             2.95
Performance:
Heat produced using
Domestic fuels (GWh):
Conversions                     1.2   1.2   6.1   11.7  13.6  15.4   14.6   22.1             22.1
Replacements                   1.8   1.8  20.6  20.7  23.2  23.5   36.5   35.6               46.6
Value of saved fossil fuels (EEK
million/Period:
Conversions                   0.22   0.22   1.11  2.12   2.56   2.80   3.45   4.01          4.01
Replacements                   0.33   0.33   3.75   3.76   4.36   4.28   8.61    6.48        8.47
Net savings in fuel costs
(EEK million/period):
Conversions                     0.12   0.12  0.59   1.12   1.37   1.48   2.37   2.12          2.12
Replacements                    0.18   0.18   2.09   2.10   2.34   2.38   5.91    3.61        4.72
Reduction of emissions
(tons/period)
S02                             16.6  16.6  148   180   204   216    285    294               351
C02                            1,080  1,080 9,958  11,65  13,248 14,02  18,521  19,081       22,870
NOx                             2.6   2.6  22.8    6    31.5    4    43.7    42                49
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   28            33         .                     j
- 34 -



TARTU DH REHABILITATION PROGRAM:
Dec 1995      Dec 1996        Dec 1997        Dec 1998    Dec
1999
Prjct Completion Degree___
%  fsubstation completed       5      1 5    90      40    100    70       100      100    100    100
%of heat meters, completed      5   115        90  140       100    70      100      100    100    100
% of remaining items completed    30    30      50     55     100    80       100     100    100    100
% of boiler conversions          90     100    100    100    100    100    100        100    100    100
completed
Performance:
Luunja boiler conversions:
Heat production (GWhyear)      34    203    140    228    154    228       145     228      127    228
Local fuel price (EEK/MWh)    45      48     50      53     56      57      64      62      79      66
Gas price (EEK/MWh)*          145    140    125    142    141    146    131         150    153    155
Performance:
Ropka boiler conversions:
Heat production (GWh/year)    47      83     60      83     63     120      60      120     55     120
Local fuel price (EEK/MWh)    76   73-80   81   80-87    86    86-95    85    92-103    85   97-110
Gas price (EEK/MWh)           144    140    122    142    142    146    131         150    111    155
Make-up water added to the    2000   2400   893    800    550    600    622         500    367    500
DH system (tons/day)                _       _      _
IRU POWER PLANT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:
Dec 1995        Dec 1996       Dec 1997      Dec 1998        Dec 1999
Seasonal overall plant       87      85     87.5    85      87.5    85      87.5    85     87.5      85
efficiency (%/6)           _                               ______
CHP #2 plant efficiency      -       -       -       81     82.5    81      82.5    81     82.5      81
after renovation of air
preheater (%)                                                                     ______
Make up water quality     Below   Below   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets
I Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard Standartd Standard Standard Standsrd
Circulating water chemical  Below   Below   Below   Meets   Below   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets   Meets
analysis                  Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard Standartl Standard Standard Standard
- 35 -



TALLINN DH REHABILITATION PROGRAM:
Dec 1995        Dec 1996         Dec 1997           Dec 1998
Dec 1999
| = ..........             - . .   r ,,.-'..'.-''' 
Project Completion
Degree:
% of substation completed    5      15      85      85      90      100     100      100      100     100
% of heat meters            5       15      85      85      90      100      95      100      100     100
completed
% of remaining items        0       0       50      50      95      100      95      100      100     100
completed
Performance:
Kadaka seasonal overall    86.2    85      N/A      88     87.5      88     87.5      88      88       88
plant efficiency (%)            _
Make-up water added to     830     830    658    210    320         170     225      150      150     150
the DH system (1,000)
tons/year)
Circulation water        Below    Below   Below   Below   Below   Meets    Meets   Meets    Meets   Meets
chemical analysis        Standard  Standard Standard Standard Standard Standard  Standard Standard  Standard Standard
- 36 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Small Boiler Conversion and Replacement                       9.78              7.37               75
District Heat Rehabilitation Program                         32.32             39.65              110
Iru Power Plant Improvement                                   4.71              8.87              188
Design and Supervision (Note)                                 3.57
Institutional Support Program                                 3.16               3.87             122
Total Baseline Cost                                          53.54             59.76
Physical Contingencies                                       5.35
Price Contingencies                                          5.61
Total Project Costs                   64.50             59.76
Total Financing Required                    64.50              59.76
Note: The actual design and supervision costs are included in the costs of the District Heating Rehabilitation Project
Actual/Latest Estimate.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                        13.40           0.00          6.14           7.58           27.12
(12.50)        (0.00)         (4.45)        (0.00)         (16.95)
2. Goods                        20.03           0.00          1.42           15.93          37.38
(20.03)        (0.00)         (1.42)         (0.00)        (21.45)
3. Services                     0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Bank Guidelines              0.00            0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)                       (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        33.43           0.00          7.56           23.51          64.50
(32.53)        (0.00)         (5.87)         (0.00)        (38.40)
-37 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActualiLatest Estimate) (US$ million eguivalentl
Procurement Method'
Expenditur Catego             Ice            NCO r               I.,F.                  Total Cost
1. Works                         21.25           2.91           3.69           6.98           34.83
(15.41)         (2.47)         (3.12)         (0.00)         (21.00)
2. Goods                         13.95           0.00           2.88           4.24           21.07
(13.31)         (0.00)         (2.01)         (0.00)         (15.32)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           0.00           3.87            3.87
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Bank Guidelines               0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)           0.00)
Total                         35.20           2.91           6.57           15.09          59.77
7_        (28.72)         (2.47)          (5.13)         (0.00)         (36.32)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through limited international bidding, international shopping and
national shopping.
Project Financing by Com onent (in US$ million e_ui_lent)
Percentage ef ApprisOA
Appris4 lstite                Actua ,test rE5suat       ___
... _ . . ~~Bask          clovt       6.                             CO.  Bank GiW
Small Boiler Conversion/  7.90       0.78      3.20       5.86       0.29      1.21     74.2   37.2   37.8
Replacement Program
District Heating          25.30      2.76      11.20     22.82       3.90      12.92    90.2  141.3  115.4
Rehabilitation Program
Iru CHP Plant             5.20       0.52                 7.64       1.23               146.9  236.5   0.0
Improvement
Design and Supervision               3.84                                                0.0    0.0    0.0
Institutional Support                          3.80                            3.87      0.0    0.0   101.8
Program
Total                     38.40      7.90      18.20      36.32      5.43      18.01    94.6   68.7   99.0
Note: Govt. rcfers to the contributions from project agencies.
- 38-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Re-Evaluation
The Project has had significant economic benefits in all its components. The key benefits have been reduced
fuel costs and import requirements, improved efficiency in DH systems and improvement of environmental
conditions in the affected areas. The economic rates of return (ERRs) at appraisal did not consider
environmental benefits. Thus, the weighted ERR for the Project amounted to 24.4% at appraisal as
compared to 22.5% today, the difference being largely due to the relative deterioration of the terms of trade
between oil and renewables. However, when one considers environmental benefits, the weighted average
ERR increases to 58.5%.
Table 1: Summary Economic Rates of Return
Small boi ler7 conversion    _29.2%    10.5%         20.5%
Small boiler replacement   9.8%        31.2%         45.6%
Tallinn DH rehabilitation  22.8%       24.0%
Tartu DH rehabilitation   28.5%        27.9%         101.3%
Pamu DH rehabilitation    27.8%        12.1%         87.4%
Iru CHP Plant improvement   18.1%      16.7%
Weighted ERR              24.4%        22.5%         58.5%
Note: The environmental benefits have been based on international
cost emission benchmarks.
Sustainability is a strong economic feature of this Project. The increased efficiency, the use of lower cost
indigenous fuels as compared to imported fuels, and the environmental benefits provide a high likelihood
that its major benefits will be sustained over the life of the project components.
Boiler Conversions
The Small Boiler Conversion Program followed in general the planned time implementation schedule but
was reduced in scope. Changes in the relative prices between oil and renewables reduced the project's
expected returns. At appraisal, the ERR for this component was estimated at 29.2%, while presently the
ERR is re-evaluated at 10.5%.
The key expected benefits were fuel cost savings. However, expectations regarding oil prices became more
conservative immediately after 1995, following weak international oil price trends. Weak oil prices up to
1999 were mainly due to excess supply conditions of oil in world markets, the Asian economic crisis and several
mild winters in Europe. Mazut, the main fossil fuel used in Estonian DH plants, is a heavy fuel oil with high
- 39 -



sulfur content. Mazut has been constantly cheap, with prices, especially in summertime, ranging below
1,000 EEK (about US$ 65-70) per ton. On the other hand, prices for renewables have been relatively
constant after 1995, reducing the relative price differences (see Table 2 below).
Table 2: Fuel Prices (US$/MWh)
Oil               11.4  10.4  9.1   9.3   8.1   10.6  9.0   8.0   7.6   7.3   7.0
Peat and Wood     7.0   5.8   5.0   5.3   5.2   5.7   5.4   5.2   5.2   5.2   5.2
Difference         4.4  4.6   4.1   4.0   2.9   4.9   3.6   2.8   2.4   2.1   1.8
Sources: Pamu Soojus Ltd., International Energy Agency and World Bank Forecasts, April 2000.
A significant benefit which was not considered in the original calculation of the ERR was the reduction in
the emissions of harmful gases. When one considers these figures and the environmental fees levied in
Estonia, the ERR is slightly raised to 11.3%. However, if one uses international cost emission benchmarks,
such as those used in Poland and the rest of Europe, instead of the conservative environmental fees, the
ERR is raised to 20.5%.
Boiler Replacements
The Small Boiler Replacement Program has also followed the original time implementation schedule but
with an increased scope. As with the conversion program, the key expected benefits were fuel cost savings.
However, the deterioration of the relative prices between oil and renewables were more than compensated
by a decline in investment costs per unit. At appraisal, the ERR was estimated at 9.8%, while presently the
ERR is re-evaluated at 31.2%.
As with the conversion program, environmental benefits were not considered in the original estimate of the
ERR. Once these benefits are included, the ERR increases to 32.2%. However, if one uses international
cost emission benchmarks instead of the environmental fees, the ERR is raised to 45.6%.
The Small Boiler Conversion and Replacement Program has contributed to the development of Estonian
manufacturers of energy equipment, as well as significantly developed local Estonian installation
companies.  According to local experts, the quality of the equipment and services has increased
significantly since the program commenced. The program has also increased the demand for wood waste
and peat, contributing to the development of a market for domestic fuels as well as to the improvement of
forestry sector by demanding wood of little, if any, industrial value.
-40 -



Tallinn DH Rehabilitation
The works under this project component were generally completed on time and cost. Economic benefits
refer to: (a) reductions in heat demand from better regulation and controls in substations; (b) heat cost
reductions from Iru CHP Plant due to installation of Laagna heat exchanger and pumping station; (c) less
heat and water losses; (d) lower fuel and electricity requirements; (e) less maintenance and repair works; (f)
savings in water treatment costs, and (g) improvements in reliability of heat supply. The changes in oil
prices affected the project's returns but were compensated by higher estimation of other benefits. At
appraisal, the ERR was estimated at 22.8%, while presently the ERR is re-evaluaited at 24.0%.
Tartu DH Rehabilitation
The appraisal estimate of the ERR for this component was 29%. Although a separate estimate was not
calculated for the boiler house at Luunja, a Bank team estimated it at mid-tern in 1996 to be 27%. The
key benefits were the savings form the conversion of various base-load boilers to use the lower-cost
indigenous fuels, including improved boiler efficiency from the improvement in combustion controls. Other
benefits were: (a) reductions in heat demand from better regulation and controls in the substations; (b)
savings in operating and maintenance costs after improvements of the water treatment system and longer
lifetime; and (c) reduction of heat and water losses in the network through the replacement of sections of
the pipeline, at times which are under groundwater level, and through ventilalion of concrete culverts.
Presently, although the expected savings in fuel costs have been lower than expected, the component
continues to remain attractive with an ERR of 27.9%.
The benefit value of the reduction of harmful emissions to the atmosphere was not considered at appraisal
in the estimate of the ERR. When this environmental benefits are considered, the ERR is raised to 30.6%.
However, if one uses intemational cost emission figures instead of the conservative environmental fees, the
ERR is raised to 101.3%.
The original estimated ERR assumed optimal operation of the boiler houses to take advantage of the lower
cost indigenous fuels, but this has not been the case. The boiler houses at Luunja and Ropka have not been
operated at full capacity. Thus, if the use of the wood and peat boilers were increased up to their full level
of capacity utilization, there would be additional savings to the project. When these additional savings are
considered, the ERR is further raised to 41.7%  without enviromnental benefits and 111.0%  with
environmental benefits based on international cost emission benchmarks.
Parnu DH Rehabilitation
The appraisal estimate of the ERR for the Pamu DH rehabilitation component was in the range of 28%.
The economic benefits for this component are comparable to Tartu's and largely based on fuel costs
savings as a result of the conversion of various base-load boilers to use the local fuels. Presently, although
the expected savings in fuel costs have been lower than expected, the component continues to remain
attractive with an ERR of 12.1 %.
As with Tartu, the environmental benefits from the reduction of harmful gases were not considered in the
original calculation of the ERR. Once these benefits are taken into account, the ERR is raised to 22.7%.
However, if one uses international cost emission figures instead of the conservative environmental fees for
Estonia, the ERR is raised to 87.4%.
-41 -



Iru Improvements
The appraisal estimate of the ERR for Iru Power Plant was 18%. Benefits included: (a) fuel cost savings;
(b) operating and maintenance savings; (c) lower costs of chemicals and other inputs from the introduction
of a modem water treatment system; and (d) extended lifetime. Costs and benefits were considered over the
average life of the investments of 15 years. On this basis, the ERR for the Iru Power Plant is re-evaluated
presently at 16.7%.
-42 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
S    of Pro ectC cle      ~~No. ofp Pesn adSeci*lt                   Performac Rating
(g.2Ecooitst.                    7Implementation       Development
NMohtj/oz    Count         Scialtyi                        PObgress          Objective
Identiflcation/Preparation
05/92                         1   Financial Analyst
I   Engineer
11/92                         I   Financial Analyst
3   Engineers
I   Economist
11/93                         2   Financial Analysts
3   Engineers
2   Economists
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/93                         2   Financial Analysts
3   Engineers
2   Economist
01/94                         1   Financial Analyst
2   Financial Analyst
2   Economist
Supervision
07/94                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                  S
09/94                          1  Financial Analyst                    S                  S
3  Economists
2  Engineers
11/94                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
I  Economist
05/95                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
2  Economist
09195                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
2   Economists
02/96                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
I  Economist
I  Engineer
11/96                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
I  Engineer
06/97                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
I  Engineer
11/97                         1  Financial Analyst                     S                 S
I  Engineer
05/98                          1  Financial Analyst                    S                  S
I  Engineer
05/99                          1  Financial Analyst                    S                 S
I  Engineer
ICR
01/2000                       1   Financial Analyst                    S                  S
I   Engineer
-43 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                s ( DW
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                     NA                       234,000
(incL. Identification)
Supervision                               NA                       390,000
ICR                                       NA                        45,000
Total                                     NA                       669,000
Note: Costs for Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation are presented together. The SAP R/3
system provides a consolidated cost for Project Preparation.
- 44 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 iVA
OSector Policies                            * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
N Physical                                  * H OSUOM O N O NA
F Financial                                 O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
F Institutional Development                 * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
F Environmental                             * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NVA
Social
El Poverty Reduction
O Gender
O Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development                O H  * SU O M  O N  O  iA
O Public sector management                  O H  * SU O M  O N  O PA
O Other (Please specify)
-45 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                   Rating
F Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                         O HS * S  OU  OHU
M Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
X Preparation                                         O HS O S   O U   O HU
X Government implementation performance               0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                   0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
? Overall                                             OHS OS   O u   O HU
-46 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Semi-Annual Progress Reports
2. Perfonnance Indicators
3. Annual Audit Reports
4. Economic Re-evaluation
- 47 -



MAP SECTION






Fl                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27-
T l E S T O N IA
.     Tallinn   .                         ---~ MAIN ROADS                        L  PORTS
aaftcIic       ESTONIA(-                                                                                 AI0ORT
B" i3 t f f c  $ 0 ESTONIA RUSSIAN JRAILROADS                                                     tAIRPORTS
FED.                         -   - COUNTY BOUNDARIES                    0  TOWNS AND VILLAGES                                           o
_i INTERNATIONAL                        e  COUNTY SEATS
- J  <   >  BOUNDARIES                      *  NATIONAL CAPITAL
t   LATVIA      S                                                                                                            
.   \  */ ^ >--               270                        aSFS          W   >    D                    ~~~~~~~~Gulf of Finland 
LITHUANIA    L
RUSSIAN                                                                                                                            K
FE-_D.              I     tX5
BELARUS       -t6
POLAND                                                                                                                   R
train  GULF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ker
5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.                                                             m.       'K          :            J                    ola         S    Pskov
7;      000 0                      i          / POLVA<MA                UMA
K!       VALIRAMAA
.   .   .   ...... S oru                                                                                                                                      *        To  P sPkv
20    ~40              60VCJO    8        10 OiaLOMETERS          V                            .To Riga                  \       ('        (rR        A         T?o Pskov
,F          I  I*.  I'       The boundaries, colors, denominations   _
t          I.      I                       I                             a -.  nd ony other informotian shown on              1<,r>N                         >,
-0      10      20      30      40)    50       60MES                         this map do not imply,poanthepormt of  'AT  V"'A                                     - .-t  .E
jag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
-<                                   .        .        *                          on the legal status of any territory, or                     _,          To Riga    %r-1r
So  X  .   '   240  .  such boundaries.To Riga   To G u
oox                           \:                   .    .      turesaa.



