LOAN NUMBER 37/tEE
EE Project Agreement
(District Heating Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EESTI ENERGIA
Dated    1Z(A, 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 37 0 EE
EE PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        -         7          , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIN AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
EESTI ENERGIA (EE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Estonia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty-eight million four hundred thousand
dollars ($38,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that EE agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EE, a portion of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to EE on the
terms and conditions set forth in said EE Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS EE, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EE declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and,
to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the


﻿- 2 -
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for Part C
of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and services required for Part C of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EE shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and   schedules,  records  and   reports,  maintenance  and   land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part C of the Project.
Section 2.04. EE shall duly perform all its obligations under
the EE Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, EE shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the EE
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EE shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part C
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the EE Subsidiary Loan Agreeme.-c, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   EE shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by EE of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the EE Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EE
Section 3.01. EE shall carry on its operations and conduct its
affairs in accordance with sound administrati*ve, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. EE shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to


﻿-3-
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EE shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EE shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition with respect to Part C of the
Project.
(b)   EE shall:
(i)    have  such  records, accounts    and  financial
statements (statements of income and expenses
and cash flow statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EE
shall not incur any debt with respect to its Iru Power lant unless
a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of such Plant
shows that the estimated net revenues of such Plant for each fiscal
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least


﻿1.3 times the estimated debt service requirements of such Plant in
such year on all debt of such Plant including the debt to be
incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EE
with respect to its Iru Power Plant maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)    Debt shall-be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(iii)    The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related  to   operations  and  net   non-
operating income; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations   including    administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.
(iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.


﻿-5-
(v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of   repayments  (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by EE not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
which both the Bank and EE accept as reasonable
and as to which the Bank has notified EE of its
acceptability, provided   that  no   event  has
occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to
have, a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of EE with
respect to its Iru Power Plant.
(vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. EE shall prepare and furnish, or cause to be
prepared and furnished, to the Bank annually during the Project
implementation period, a report of the five year financial
projections, which shall consist of income statements and cash flow
statements (beginning with EE's financial year 1995) for the its
Power Plant.
Section 4.04. EE shall establish tariffs for the heat-only
operations of its Power Plant which would allow such plant, under
conditions of efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity
utilization, to cover itb costs of production, operations and
maintenance,   depreciation,  interest   and  make   a  reasonable
contribution to reserves.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which theLoan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of EE thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify EE thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 7-
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For EE:
SE Eesti Energia
Estonia pst 1
EE 0100 Tallinn
Estonia
Telex:
173190 ESTENEE
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EE may be taken or executed by the General
Director or such other person or persons as General Director shall
designate in writing, and EE shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
EESTI ENERGIA
By   S   /7     &
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the     invitation  to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, EE shall use the relevant standard bidding documents
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank
shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project.
Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, EE shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Estonia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for office equipment and materials
estimated to cost less than $50,000 per item or group, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
2.    Items or groups of items for works and installation estimated
to cost less than $50,000 per item or group, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $300,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to Lhe Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall L, furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of -he
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certilN that the foregoing is a true cops of
the original in the archi\es of the Internationil Bank
for Reconstruction and De.e!opment,
FOR SECRETARY


