Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12167-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 21, 1993
Country Department III
Technical Department
Public Sector Management Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
TIis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col $)
Col$1.00 = 0.0012674 (May 1993)
US$1.00 = Col$ 789 (May 1993)
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations Used
CGR         Comptroller of the Republic
COCOR       Coordination Committee (MOF, DNP, CGR)
CONFIS    Fiscal Council (MOF, DNP, and Central Bank)
DANE        National Statistical Department
DIAN        Internal Revenue and Custom Directorate
DNP         National Planning Department
ESAP        National Public Administration School
GOC         Government of Colombia
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IGAC        Colombian Institute of Geography and Statistics
LCP         Local Competitive Bidding
MSA         Management Service Agreement
MOF         Ministry of Finance
ODP         Department (Regional) Planning Office
OPS         Office for Project Services
POA         Annual Operational Program
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SFP         State Financial Plan
SISC        Internal Control System
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Staff Appraisal Report
1COLOMB1A
Public Financial Management Project
Table of Contents
Page No.
Project Summary  ...............................i
I.      The Public Sector ..... ...........................                                         1
A.      Macroeconomic Environment ......                       .............               1
B.      Structure of the Public Sector ......                  .............               2
C.      Reform  Measures   .          .........................                            4
D.      Remaining Constraints  ........                   ...............                  6
E.      Rationale for Bank Involvement ......                    ............             12
F.  Lessons Learned ............................  12
H.      The Project  ...............................                                               13
A.  Project Objectives ...........................   13
B.      Project Description   ................  ...  ....  .                           .  13
C.      Project Costs  ............................                                   .   20
D.      Financing Plan  ...........................                                    .  21
E.      Procurement  ............................                                     .   21
F.      Project Implementation  ............  ...  ..  ...  ..                         .  23
III.    Project Justification  .............................  .                                    24
A.      Project Benefits   .......................  ...                                .  24
B.      Project Risks  ............................                                   .   25
IV.    Agreements to be Reached   .......   .                     .................                25
This report is based on the findings of preparation. presppraiual/appmiul misions that visited Colombia during April, May, and
June 1993, comprising Mmesr/Messrs. Alin Tobelem (Mission Leader, LATPS), Jaime Vazquez-Caro (Co-Task Manager, PSD),
Eduardo Talero (ENTI), William Mayville (ConsultAnt LA4DR), Antel Gonz lez-Malaxechewrr(a, and Carmen Machicado
(Consultants LATPS). William Mayville further helped edit the report. In Colombia, inter-ministerial groups from the Ministry of
Fuunce and the National Ptanning Depatment, as well as a group from the Comptroller's Office greatly helped prepare the project
with a group of international consultanu, including Patricio Castro. Carlos Viso, Renato Botaro, Hugo Hanish, Bnulio de Guzmnn,
Juan Jose Vicente Lopez, Vanderlci Saldanha, Gaces Rickli, and Mauro Brusa. The peer reviewer for this report was Mr. Luca
Barbone (EC2CO). Mmes./Messrs. Shahid Chaudhry, Marie Garcia-Zamor, and Yoshiaki Abe were, respectively, the managing
Division Chief, Project Adviser, and Depertment Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.    Project Implementation, Inputs, and Costs per component per year
2.    Detailed Project Inputs and Costs
3.    Account Summary by Project Component
4.    Disbursement Schedule
5.    Organization Charts of MOF, DNP, CGR, and Interinstitutional Relationships
Map
6.    Matrix of Performance Indicators
7.    Proposed Integrated Information System
8.    Training Activities
9.    Assessment of Tax Administration in Colombia
10.   Public Financial Management: Treasury, Public Credit, Budgeting and
Accounting
11.   Modernization of Monitoring and Public Policy Evaluation
12.   Lessons Learned.
MaW: No. IBRD 18370R1



COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Colombia
Benfcianri:            Ministry of Finance
National Planning Department
Comptroller General's Office
Amount:                 US$30.0 Million
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate
Project Objectives
and Description:    The project comprises five major components: (a) Resource
Mobilization;  (b)  Macroprogramming;  (c)  Expenditures
Management; (d) Government Management Control and Public
Policy Evaluation; and (e) Institutional Strengthening. Within these
five components, the proposed project aims at designing an
integrated information system, preparing norms and regulations that
would result from both existing legislation and the information
system to be designed, and installing the system and operationalizing
it in selected entities at the national level. Total project cost is
US$58.0 million, 52% to be financed by the Bank (100% of foreign
costs), while the GOC would finance the remaining 48% or 100%
of local costs.
Benefits:         Improvement of the public financial management is a sine qua non
to modernize all other aspects of the public administration in
Colombia. Overall, public revenues could be increased by as much
as 30% by the year 2000 through both increased tax collection and
enhanced efficiency of public resource programming and spending.
Rigor in public financial management would also help create
procedures and ultimately a new accountability culture that should
reestablish public confidence in government as well as public
administration credibility. This would contribute to creating an
overall institutional environment conducive to private sector
initiatives and development.
Risks include the inherent instability of the civil service, the weak
capacity of institutions and human resources, especially at local
levels, as well as political changes (August 1994) that could affect



ii
current national commitment.  These risks will be ameliorated
through the envisaged training and capacity building which is an
inherent part of the project. Moreover, there are incentive systems,
well-trained personnel, as well a competitive salary scale within
several of the agencies targeted for assistance under the project
(DIAN, DNP, and increasingly in the Ministry of Finance). Also,
greater public awareness and pressure indicate that the next
administration would find it difficult to reduce significantly the level
of commitment that prevailed at the time GOC designed this
proposed project. Moreover, all of the interventions are in support
of changes in public financial management embodied in the 1991
Constitution and would be vital to the credibility of any subsequent
government.
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Cost: a/
caKlI       Foreign      Total
----IUS $ million----
Resource Mobilization                      16.1         18.7       34.8
Macroeconomic Modelling                     0.9         0.4         1.3
Expenditures Management                     4.3         5.0         9.3
Control and Public Policy Evaluation        3.0          1.6        4.6
Institutional Strengthening                 2.4          2.8        5.2
Physical Contingencies                      113 14                   7
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                        28.0         a8
Financing Plan:                                   Local Foreign Total
----US $ million----
Government                                        28.0  -0-    28.0
IBRD                                              .&    30L 0   Q0.
Total                                             28.   30 0
a/ The project is exempted from taxes and duties
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not always add.



COLOMBIA
Public Financial Management Project
I. The Public Sector
A. The Macroeconomic Environment.
1.          Between 1988 and 1990, increased inflation and a slowdown in economic
growth rate caused Colombia's overall economic performance to deteriorate. Annual
inflation accelerated from 21 % at the end of 1986 to 28% in 1988, and 32% in 1990; GDP
growth declined from a 5.6% average in 1986/87 to 3.5% in the 1988-92 period. This
growth downturn mainly reflected disappointing performances in manufacturing production
and services and a contraction in public investment--although this was offset by stronger
growth in mining and agriculture. Moreover, lackluster performance in the domestic
market was balanced by encouraging growth in nontraditional exports and a rise in both
the price and volume of oil exports, although oil production dropped in 1991. Thus, the
external sector recently has become the engine of growth in aggregate demand, with
export-oriented subsectors the strongest contributors.
2.          Internal and external shocks still significantly affect fiscal and external
balances, generating a requirement for stabilizing measures. Weak overall economic
performance is attributed to: the demise of the International Coffee Agreement and a
concomitant upsurge in the drug war in 1989; a petroleum price decline in 1988 and
continuing guerrilla attacks on oil pipelines; and a slowdown in global economic growth.
Another major influence on fiscal balances was that growth activities intended to correct
macroeconomic imbalances in the mid-1980s could not be sustained given the lack of
structural reforms to address microeconomic efficiencies.  To stimulate long-term
economic growth, the Government of Colombia (GOC) implemented a comprehensive
structural reform program in early 1990 aimed at significantly improving resource
allocation and use. In 1992, economic growth accelerated despite a stagnant agricultural
sector, a crisis in the power sector, and increased insecurity due to political and drug-
related violence. GDP growth for 1992 is estimated at 3.6%, although inflation remained
at about 25 %. A major new oil discovery in 1992 promises to have an important impact
over the medium-term.
3.          Even though the size of the fiscal deficit has shrunk--given the 1984-86
adjustment program and the near elimination of the fiscal deficit in 1990--a large part of
the fiscal adjustment was due to transient episodes like higher international prices for oil
and coffee, the latter one of the primary causes of the current deficit. The composition
of fiscal revenues and expenditures remains fundamentally unchanged; in this regard, the
public sector savings rate has been generally constant since 1988. Although progress has
been made as a result of a tax administration reform, there has been relative stability in
the fiscal accounts, which suggests the Government has yet to launch any compelling
initiatives to improve the basic structure of fiscal policy in place since the mid-1980s.



B. Structure of the Public Sector.
4.           The Colombian public sector comprises the executive, judicial, and
legislative branches of government. The executive branch is divided into: (a) central
ministries (14) and administrative departments (5); and (b) first-tier decentralized agencies,
which can be either decentralized entities or public enterprises. In addition, these agencies
can create, by association, second-tier decentralized entities or public enterprises which
they have.
5.           Twenty years after the administrative reform  of 1968 the network of
interrelated public agencies has evolved into entities of unmanageable proportions requiring
fundamental change. Furthermore, significant earmarking has led to inefficiency and
inequity that prevent distributing more evenly the benefits from recent adjustment policies
as well as those contemplated by the current Administration. Reforms now affected by
this bottleneck include health, education, privatization, and decentralization.
6.           Education and health as well as the departments and municipalities "share"
national revenues redistributed on the basis of demographic criteria. In 1987, a major
effort was undertaken to reduce the "exclusiveness" of earmarked funds by changing the
rationale for these funds from an "entity' to a "sectoral" concept. A second initiative tried
to reduce the absolute size of the government through a privatization strategy.
7.           Another major initiative, begun in 1987, attempted to control the
proliferation of the myriad decentralized entities as well as to rationalize their
administration. The Government has concentrated on devising various legal frameworks
to provide a generalizing scheme, for example, the promulgation of an Organic Budgetary
Law; however, it has been unsuccessful to date in an institutional environment
characterized by operational incapacity and paralysis. A contributing factor is the lack of
an adequate information system to deal with widespread managerial problem the
Government confronts. In 1992, the current Administration began to streamline the
complex organizational structure endemic to all public sector bureaus.
Subnational Governments
8.           Colombia's three tiers of government are national, departmental, and
municipal. Each of the 1,009 "municipios" is governed by an elected mayor, and in the
larger cities by a range of municipal agencies and enterprises. Municipal government has
been the main beneficiary of the decentralization process that began in 1983. This has
included a reform of local taxation (law 14 of 1983), revision of the legal status of local
governments (Law 11 of 1986), the allocation to them of increasing shares of the national
valued-added tax (Law 12 of 1986), transfer of responsibilities for the provision of local
services (Decrees 77, 78, and 80 of 1987), and the popular election of mayors beginning
in 1988. These measures were meant to strengthen the democratic process at the local
level, foster community participation in local development, and eliminate inefficiencies
associated the central government providing services that are essentially local in nature and
better handled at that level.
9.           The problem with provision of municipal services locally is the dearth of
administrative and technical skills available within subnational govemments. There is



3
virtually no notion of career civil service, and functional job profiles are seldom developed
or used.  With local elections held every other year, political interference in the
management and staffing of local institutions has prevented continuity. Departmental
governments through their planning offices (ODPs) are responsible for providing technical
support and guidance to local governments. With exceptions in a few departments--
Antioquia, Valle, and Cundinamarca--most ODPs lack the skills and authority needed to
provide effective support to their local governments.
10.         On the other hand, Colombian local governments have considerable revenue
authority. Own-source local revenues include taxes on real estate and business, betterment
levies and service charges. Fiscal performance correlates with city size: own-source
revenues in Bogota and other large cities historically have increased in real terms. Small
municipalities, in contrast, have failed to maintain local revenue flows at a pace with
inflation, and thus have become more dependent on central government transfers.
Formerly, the property tax was the largest single source of municipal revenue. High
inflation rates, slippage from cadaster registration targets, and the failure of many
municipal governments to enforce timely payments of the tax, caused property tax
proceeds to decline in real terms.  This tax funded 27%  of aggregate municipal
expenditure in 1973, but a declining 17% in 1983, and only 12% in 1988. Law 14 of
1983 introduced annual across-the-board revaluations of the property tax base, required
the cadaster registration authority (Instituto Geografico Agustin Codazzi--IGAC) to update
property assessments nationwide on a five-year cycle, and transferred to mayors the legal
authority to set tax rates within a wide band. However, the annual revaluations have been
made at rates lower than inflation; and a large number of new properties are not registered
on tax roles.
Training for Public Administration
11.         Training for public administrators is carried out at the national, departmental
and local levels by the national School for Public Administration (EASP), a higher
education institution that is run by the Civil Service Commission. After a reorganization
in 1987, in response to decentralization initiatives, EASP introduced programs specifically
designed to strengthen municipal administration. EASP's ability to respond to municipal
needs remains limited, since most of its teaching staff have little experience in local
government, and programs have an overly legalistic orientation, and are generally
considered weak. Moreover, there currently are no other undergraduate programs or
graduate programs available in public administration in the country. The Tax School
within the Tax Directorate and a similar although much smaller school within the Custom
Department (now being merged within the new National Directorate for Customs and
Taxation, DIAN) offer comprehensive programs for professional and technical personnel
in their respective areas and will be strengthened under the proposed project during the
process of fusing their respective programs. Additionally, the CGR has a Training
Department that offers professional, technical, and support-level courses, which also will
be strengthened under the project (see Annex 8 for training proposed under the project).



4
C. Reform Measures.
12.         Recognizing that macroeconomic measures alone will be insufficient to raise
productivity and output growth in the long run, in early 1990 GOC launched an economic
modernization program to improve the efficiency of resource allocation and use. The plan
included a set of structural reforms and supporting macro policies designed to raise
economic growth to 5 % per year, bring inflation to below 20%, and reduce poverty. The
centerpiece of the plan was a trade reform program intended to increase the
competitiveness of the tradeable goods sector. Complementary policies were designed to
improve resource mobilization as well as ensure an adequate supply-side response of the
productive sectors and improve efficiency and effectiveness in the public sector. These
structural reforms were to be undergirded by fiscal and exchange rate policies that were
geared to maintain internal and external balance. The new government reaffirmed these
objectives in mid-1990 and vowed to accelerate reforms, with special emphasis given to
strengthening public sector institutional capacity. This renewed emphasis began with a
performance planning and evaluation system to promote the modernization of management
practices in selected public enterprises, prepare the framework for restructuring the power
sector, and introduce substantial reforms in key sectors (railways, ports, shipping, and
low-income-housing). The object was to eliminate public monopolies and provide
incentive structures to promote private sector entry and competition. In addition, many
public assets in the industrial and financial sectors were to be privatized where continued
public ownership was not justified on strategic or policy grounds. Furthermore, public
sector employment would be reduced.
13.         Constitutional Basis for Reforms. The new Constitution (1991) is actually
a mandate for reform aimed at improving the management of public resources based on
national consensus. Six major aspects constitute the framework for improving public
financial management. Eii the central government will allocate a larger share of overall
public resources to subnational levels based on their performance in delivering services for
which they are responsible as well as their ability to self-generate resources locally.
Second, the office of the General Accountant must be established within MOF with
responsibility for consolidating the national budget. and establishing state financial
statements based on an accounting plan for all government levels (responsibilities carried
out before by the Comptroller General's Office). Third, a modern financial administration
would be established based on principles of efficiency and effectiveness, in line with new
legal mandates. Fourth, the obligation of the Executive would include two new factors in
resource allocation decisions: equity and environmental impact. Fifth, the Comptroller
General of the Republic (CGR) has been reorganized with new functions, namely the
control of accounting and ex post external audit on a selected basis. CGR also becomes
responsible for ensuring that equity principles and environment protection policies are
enforced when auditing government-financed activities.  Internal control is now the
responsibility of the sectoral entities themselves. And, sixth, new control entities are to
be created to scrutinize the effective use of public funds, i.e., the "Fiscal General" and
'Veedor' (ombusdman) in the Ministry of Finance.
14.         Public Financial Management. In consonance with its overall modernization
and development plans, GOC is convinced that no attempt to strengthen the capacity of the
public sector and to restore public confidence would be successful without building
capacity in public financial management from resource mobilization to government control,



5
inciuding public policy evaluation. In general, this is rightly seen as a critical factor in
improving overall public management. If resources are well managed and controlled, they
will, by definition, increase public sector financial capacity. In addition, the quality of the
management of these funds is an important element of GOC's policy. Toward achieving
this efficiency objective, GOC would build analytical tools that would facilitate achieving
a more effective macro decision-making process as well as sectoral levels of govemment.
15.         Decentralization. In 1986, GOC began to transfer resources to subnational
levels. And since 1987, as mandated by law and 1991 Constitution, subnational transfer
amounts became earmarked, and thus are mandatory.  In early 1993, local tax
administrations are to receive 14% of the national current income or about 1.5-2% of
GDP. However, departmental and municipal administrations have much less institutional
capacity than the national bureaus, despite transfers earmarked for training local officialse.
Capacity strengthening requirements go beyond simple additional skills. For instanoe,
administrative norms are unclear and information processing is ill-defined and mostly done
manually. In fact, the structure of GOC at national level is not sufficient to facilitate
decentralized functions precisely because it was designed to support an essentially highly
centralized administration. GOC has begun to address these issues. A reorganization
process of central administrations will begin in 1993, in particular in the social sectors and
infrastructure, shifting from national to subnational responsibilities to deliver the
corresponding services.  This includes an ambitious program  of management skill
development for all personnel at subnational levels. Similarly, the Ministry of Finance has
established a training program to address the need for upgrading resource mobilization/tax
administration-related skills subnationally.
16.          Resource Mobilization.  GOC has found it necessary to consolidate
improvements to the management of its revenue mobilization processes so as to: (a) boost
public revenues, which is required to comply with equity principles and policies; (b)
contribute to macroeconomic stability; (c) ensure a successful trade liberalization through
tax system reform; and (d) enhance public sector efficiency and credibility. A long list
of actions at the policy level has occurred to strengthen the system over the years to a
point where an investment in technological development is crucial. As recently defined,
the new Directorate for Taxes and Customs is now responsible for collecting nearly 80%
of total public revenues as well as for implementing the liberalization reform.
Administrative processes and levels of taxation generally are now straightforward for the
public, thus easier to understand and comply with. Initial results are encouraging.
However, MOF believes that much remains to be done to sustain an adequate level of
performance in tax collection without shifting to a more modern and comprehensive
information system. It is expected that administrative enhancement of this important
subsector of public financial management would modify substantially the tax compliance
environment and the public revenue profile.
17.         Information Policy. Eager to modernize their information systems, many
ministries and other public entities in Colombia generally over the last decade or so have
developed their own microsystems that are typically not compatible and not interconnected.
No systematic attempt has been made to develop an integrated and comprehensive system-
' A fraction of the value-added tax is carmarked and transferred to the Public Administration School (ESAP) to
train local officials.



6
even though in principle it would still be possible to have many independent subsystems
to coexist. DNP is now developing and expanding six subsystems: (a) a "Project Bank"
for GOC's projects; (b) a "Project Bank" to include all investment proposals for the
national and subnational levels; (c) a municipal information system; (d) a social indicators
system with planning jurisdictions; (e) a development plan monitoring system; and (f)
various small systems operated with laptops. CGR also has a data base for public
procurement but a weak system for financial management and accounting. Parallel to this,
the National Statistical Department (DANE) operates a reliable and comprehensive data
base to handle national accounts, and to some extent, population, economic, and social
development indicators per sector. The related information is sophisticated but hardly
useful for financial management decisions because of considerable delays in making data
available. Finally, GOC now intends to integrate all social indicators in a single data base
so as to monitor the implementation of social programs, in particular those with critical
equity objectives. Notwithstanding these efforts, a global information system policy is still
required in Colombia (see Annex 7). The objective should be to integrate existing systems
and facilitate a flow of information that would be reliable and timely so as to efficiently
service monitoring and evaluation activities and promote a more effective decision-maldng
process.
D. Remaining Constraints.
Tax Administration.
18.         For over a decade, GOC tried to strengthen its institutional capacity for a
more effective tax administration in general and revenue increase in particular. However,
it still lacks an adequate integrated information system including adequate consideration
given to strategic planning and more productive use of informatics in the day-to-day
operation of tax administration. Tax administration modernization--as measured by the
intensity of computerization in the different areas of administration--has been considered
mainly as setting up the taxpayers current account (see Annex 9).  This strategy
disregarded evasion control and internal management, resulting in poor overall results of
the improvement efforts. Tax revenues have been elastic with respect to GDP since 1986
(tax revenues amounted for 10% of GDP in 1988 to 12% in 1992 for the central
government, and 14% of GDP, consistently during same period, for total public sector).
This result does not necessarily mean administrative and procedural efficiency, as it
combines exogenous factors with economic variables and tax policy. Modernization has
not kept pace with the dynamics and creativity in the development of the tax structure and
its accompanying organizational developments. GOC now hopes to define such a global
tax administration strategy in the short term to turn it into a modern and efficient
administration.
19.          Taxpayer Compliance. Tax system efficiency is the result of tax-payer
compliance and the relative cost of enforcing compliance. In Colombia, there is a built-in
expectation that taxpayers will not only comply and pay their taxes, but also fill in their
forms correctly, thus facilitating the entire tax administration. However, estimates suggest
that collection is currently less than 70% of what it should be because: (a) an entirely
'voluntary" compliance system exists given that all collection administration is through the
banking network, and of this about half corresponds to withholding by third parties; (b)
for 10 years evasion control was almost nonexistent; it was not until 1990 that the DIAN



7
reassumed its enforcement role; and (c) although substantially simplified and strengthened,
procedural legislation remains tolerant of tax evaders due to a short statute of limitations
by which to control tax evasion. Progress that has occurred has been slow, and mainly
due to mass communication campaigns to stimulate compliance. Furthermore, taxpayer
current accounts do not allow for consistency (about 40% of transactions are categorized
as inconsistent) and the different registry steps are cumbersome and do not conform to
current administrative simplification requirements. Finally, administrative control related
to tax payment compliance is erratic, not based on objective information, and not fairly
enforced.
20.          Internal Administration.   Administrative logistics is also weak.  The
Directorate of Internal Revenue and Customs (DIAN)'s capacity is not commensurate with
handling modem concepts and procedures. In addition, the operational growth leads to
bottlenecks given the absence of adequate management instruments and lack of information
hardware. There is also insufficient planning and programming capacity and inadequate
information systems.
21.          Assessment of Economic and Administrative Impact.  Decision-making
processes in tax administration do not currently include strategic planning capacity,
including critical analysis of the economic impact of taxation levels and the interpretation
of tax legislation. Capacity to perform economic simulations with meaningful indicators
by which to reorient taxation levels globally or by sector is either weak or nonexistent.
As a result, when serious problems arise they can only be resolved partially a posteriori--
e.g., taxes increased randomly or when tax amnesties are granted by the Congress--without
being able to assess the impact of such measures.
Treasury and Public Credit.
22.          There is no satisfactory cash management for short- or long-term fund
requirements to meet payments regularly as approved in the budget; yet, when there is an
excess of cash in the Treasury, there is no policy, system, or simple procedures to
facilitate its optimal use (see Annex 10). On the other hand, the debt management system
is not satisfactory because generally it is not based on sound principles or organized
procedures.  To some extent, these shortcomings are caused by lack of financial
management capacity rather than by lack of adequate legislation. Indeed, Law 38 of 1989
(currently under review) requires the application of modem cash management and public
credit policies and procedures. This current situation is aggravated by the lack of capacity
in private banks with which the public sector operates, including Treasury operations,
which results in high service costs. In addition, there is no direct communication linkage
between the Treasury and the banking network.  Far too often during a budget
implementation cycle Treasury lacks cash, makes delayed payments, and occasionally is
unable to provide routine office supplies to MOF. In reality, there is no systematic
relationship between financial commitments and cash availability, which raises final costs
when acquiring goods and services with public money. There are also no established
norms and procedures for Treasury specifying how to determine daily cash amounts to be
transferred to banks where public sector entities maintain their accounts. And there is no
system for controlling fund transfers, in particular to match them with what entities have
actually spent. All this is widely believed to have led to corrupt practices, which



8
constantly threaten public sector credibility and legitimacy. This is why GOC considers
improving cash management and public credit a vital concern.
Financial Macroplanning.
23.         MOF and DNP believe that many public sector efficiency issues originate
in ad hoc or imprecise macroplanning of public expenditures--largely due to both lack of
systematic policies and inadequate information systems (see Annex 10). Law 38 now
provides for the preparation of systematic public budgets to be preceded by a "State
Financial Plan" (SFP) to ensure a realistic and feasible budget. The coordination between
SFP and cash programming is expected to produce smooth budget execution, with no
restrictions imposed by monetary or foreign currency policies. However, it has not
worked this way in the absence of an integrated information system at the macrolevel and
at the sectoral level as well, which is vital when attempting to solve short-term financial
issues. Hence, it is now virtually impossible to develop simulation models that can
support decision-making processes in MOF, DNP, and the Central Bank that include the
Fiscal Council (CONFIS), which is now in charge of macroplanning.
Sectoral Program-based Budgeting.
24.         The public budget ultimately incorporates sectoral spending programs that
should be efficiently generated by the sectoral administrations themselves (see Annex 10).
However, this should be done in accordance with norms, procedures, formats, and
schedules that are uniform over the entire list of public sector entities, included in the
nationial budget. The process of assessing financial requirements in the different sectors
in Colombia is inadequate, partly because of a lack of sufficient and relevant information
flows.  Estimates are routinely based upon the previous year's budget.  Even this
inadequate approach is further exacerbated by ad hoc, last-minute cuts made by either the
DNP Public Investment Unit or MOF's General Budget Directorate. This engenders lack
of confidence and calls for a more professional approach to expenditures programming by
the various sectors.  As a result, estimates indicate that as much as 40%  of public
expenditures are not considered part of the formal Budget presentation process.
25.         Furthermore, at subnational levels, which are supposed to receive 40% of
the Government's current revenues by year 2001 (or about 5% of GDP), no system exists
to ensure a uniform approach to financial programming and budget presentation, which is
compounded by the same lack of integrated accounting procedures (see para. 27 below).
In addition, there is a lack of subnational capacity to generate investment projects based
on priority needs identified with local community participation. A project bank exists to
register and organize the evaluation of projects, taking into account the need for regional
integration and multilevel synergy; however, improvement is needed if project information
is to be shared and follow-up of project implementation is to become a routine function
for government managers. These are also impediments to private sector participation.
Finally, in part because of the above institutional capacity gaps, the public sector is unable
to hire, retain, and motivate professionals of the level needed to reform this situation in
the short term. This is particularly acute at the subnational level, where the political
system promotes instability of civil servants. Currently, there are still disruptive processes
in project management and financing that must be addressed to avoid interruptions in
project implementation as well as financial inefficiency.



9
26.         The new financial management practices are expected to give more emphasis
to monitoring program outcomes and accountability for inputs. The 1989 Budget Reform
Law has brought about some progress in tracking public expenditures through an integrated
information system. However, it will not meet the Government's objective of defining and
enforcing a modern integrated public financial management system. For this a more
comprehensive, multiuser system will be required. The system in use, which is managed
by the National Statistical Department (DANE), is largely supply-driven and does not
provide the timely inputs needed at any level of government for planning, program, and
policy evaluation (several months' delay is not unusual). As a result, many ad hoc
information systems have evolved without coordination, harmonized norms, or uniform
definitions. A serious effort is now required to define a new architecture for a truly
integrated information system to track public finances so as to ensure that their use is
optimized and results oriented. Applied at subnational levels this should bring about better
allocation of financial resources among the three administrative branches of government,
in line with new constitutional requirements.
Budget Execution: Accounting.
27.         Installing a modem integrated accounting system is seen as the keystone to
effectively modernizing of public financial management in Colombia--not only to help the
public sector control how its financial resources are spent and used but also to facilitate
the macroprogramming process, including the preparation of sectoral and national budgets
(see Annex 10). The Constitution specifies a minimum level of information to be obtained
in managing public expenditures. The only way to achieve this mandate is to build an
acceptable integrated accounting system. Although GOC has begun to implement elements
of an accounting system, there is yet no unified accounting plan that can be applied both
nationally and subnationally.  Moreover, there is no serious effort to integrate all
accounting information received from the various sectors and public entities into a
consolidated account in MOF. MOF only recently (1989) has been assigned the
accounting responsibility (which is the function of the Accountant General), a function
transferred from CGR (which retains its control function for external audits). However,
the Constitution and existing legislation are still unclear as to this responsibility, stipulating
that "government accounting" is MOF's responsibility, but that "budgetary accounting" is
CGR's. CGR sees no incompatibility in this dichotomy. While budgetary accounting is
conventionally accepted as a responsibility of MOF, the Comptroller's office maintains that
its responsibility is based on the constitutional mandate. In addition, CGR managers argue
that there is nothing inherently contradictory with the budget being the responsibility of
the Executive through MOF on the one hand and Congress through CGR on the other.
This dual internal jurisdictional approach between MOF and CGR as embodied in the
Constitution creates the potential for conflict when carrying out responsibilities.
Government Control.
28.         A major hurdle for the implementation of GOC's development program is
the generally weak management in the public sector, resulting in part from the capacity
gaps described above. Until 1991, public financial management was based on freezing
expenditures, which was exercised by vested interest groups in the Comptroller's General's
Office, affecting nearly every entity. As a result, internal control systems and procedures



10
began to atrophy. In addition, controls were imposed merely to verify that expenditures
had been made against budget items rather than providing judgment on their efficiency and
effectiveness. Ex-post auditing was carried out on a sample basis only to control entities
receiving external funds to ensure that agreed covenants were met. Thus, public sector
financial management emphasized inputs rather than outputs based on prescribed policies
and action programs. In this way, control was stressed over achievement which blurred
the lines of managerial accountability. Improving accountability for results in the public
sector is high on GOC's agenda, with reforms of public financial management is now
underway in Colombia. The July 1991 Constitution banned prior controls and mandated
a shift to modern public financial management--based on principles of accountability for
results--supported by internal controls and comprehensive (value-for-money) external
audits. Legislation is being drafted to: (a) establish the function of a General Accountant,
responsible for the preparation of consolidated government budgets and financial
statements based on an integrated plan of accounts for all government levels; and (b)
redefine the function and reform the organization of the Comptroller General's Office.
In parallel, GOC is preparing--and intends to adopt and carry out in 1993--plans to
restructure its line agencies, giving priority to the social sectors and infrastructure, as
required by the decentralization process. However, little has been done so far to design
and implement modem management systems, which require considerable preparatory work
on organization, procedures, information technology, and skills development.
29.         An effective central control system would be an important step towards
modem and efficient public financial management to achieve the optimal use of public
resources. In Colombia, efficiency and effectiveness receive equal emphasis, which does
not necessarily lead to government priority in containing corruption. It is axiomatic that
public financial resources should be controlled by addressing four issues: (a) whether the
allocation of funds is adequate and based on sound policy principles; (b) whether public
money is well spent, i.e., obtaining the best possible goods and services at the lowest
possible cost; (c) whether it has been possible to achieve the expected results with these
goods and services; and (d) whether the public policy that originated this spending
structure was sound, yielding the best possible results. Today, there is no definitive
control over the capacity of entities to efficiently program and spend public resources, nor
is there any system to perform a comprehensive analysis of economic value and impact of
proposed investments. Moreover, environmental protection, although it has become
extremely important to most decision-makers in Colombia, is subject to the same lack of
control mechanisms. Experience with government control in Colombia has occurred in
tax administration, which may explain the progress made in this area over the last decade
or so. Other government control efforts have been sporadic, with little, if any, real impact
on improving the management of public resources. CGR and DNP are still in the process
of formulating an integrated system, with uniform principles, procedures, and norms.
They are primarily trying to define a system that will eliminate current redundancies and
inadequacies.  MOF still needs to clarify its own role in contributing to overall
government control and grow in capacity to perform its functions adequately. Finally,
there is no internal control sufficiently organized at the public entity level that can supply
the central levels with critical or even basic information and data.
30.         GOC has recently created the "Fiscal General" within the Judiciary, and the
"Veedor de la Hacienda" and "Convenience Control" within the Congress. This should



11
not have much impact on control efficiency and effectiveness. The constitution includes
a transitional provision stating that the President of the Republic will designate, within a
week after approving the Constitution, and for a period of three years, a citizen who
would be responsible for the objection ex officio, or based on outside requests, to review
utilization of treasury funds of whatever origin during political campaigns. This citizen
would be able to request support from CGR or from the fiscal general. At the time of
implementing this temporary constitutional provision, the citizen in question was
designated as 'Veedor" (overseer), a special kind of auditor that existed in colonial times,
and his office would be the "Veeduria." Since this is limited to the use of public funds
in political campaigns during the period 1991-94, its impact in the overall assessment of
internal control is meaningless. It has also proven to be controversial; the Veedor has
been the subject of public criticism and his work even subject to official investigation.
Public Polici Evaluation.
31.         Public policy evaluation generally is the final step in the series of activities
inherent in an adequate and integrated public financial management cycle (see Annex 11).
Indeed, appropriately done, this will verify that public resources have been well
programmed and honestly and efficiently spent, and that public policies generating
resource mobilization and use were sound and represent the best possible use of public
resources for development--including special interests such as equity and environmental
protection. In Colombia, there is neither an adequate information system about projects
generated at the national or subnational levels ("project bank") or an evaluation system that
could lead to the type of information required to improve the decision-making process.
32.         DNP already manages a data base that includes projects generated at the
national and subnational levels, which is normally used to carry out global and sectoral
macroplanning and related resource allocation. Filing the corresponding information in
this system is a requirement before any investment proposal will be considered for
approval--even in the cases of co-financing or financing by sources external to the public
sector. This has been a welcome innovation in budget administration in Colombia.
However, the system is only at an early stage of implementation and is thus not
sufficiently developed and lacks comprehensiveness, procedures, and a format that would
result from a common understanding with project-generating entities throughout the public
sector- in addition to linking information and data profiles with budgeting and integrated
accounting requirements. Furthermore, DNP's role may not be sufficiently established and
accepted.
33.         There is no process in Colombia that facilitates evaluating public policies
on a systematic basis. If the proposed GOC plan to improve public financial management
is to succeed, GOC must be able to answer the question as to whether its investment
decisions are sound--not simply whether they yielded the expected results at the lowest
possible cost. Typically, project-generating sources do not question whether the projects
they proposed are sound either economically or in other important respects (e.g., using
equity and environmental protection criteria). They pay little attention to compatibility
with other spending proposals within or across sectors. They rarely assess recurrent cost
implications, and when they do, the concern is limited to internal implications precisely
because the sectors, as special interest groups, usually do not take a comprehensive, public
sector viewpoint. Recurrent costs are seldom taken into account operationally, which



12
contributes, for instance, to facilities being built years before financial capacity makes it
possible to operate them at a profit. Currently, no benchmarks exist that would permit
assessing quality and continuity of key public services, especially at subnational levels.
Finally, there is no system for risk/catastrophe evaluation in a country where such events
are common.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement.
34.         The proposed operation was included in the February 1993 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) as part of the Bank's program for Colombia and will be
reaffirmed in the CAS to be presented to the Board this Calendar Year. The main thrust
of Bank assistance to Colombia from the mid-1980s has been to help establish a policy
environment supportive of growth led by the private sector. Consolidating the reforms of
trade and finance remains a key objective, but the acceleration of structural reforms in
1990/91 has called for a shift in the Bank's agenda. As long-standing policy impediments
are lifted, GOC should increasingly address other constraints that are binding Colombia's
development: an obsolete regulatory environment, weak financial markets, infrastructure
bottlenecks, human resource gaps, threats to the natural resource base, and persistent
inequity and risk of social disintegration. Furthermore, restoring confidence in public
sector capacity to handle the country's critical issues by better management of public
finances-from revenue generation to the evaluation of public policies--is an urgent need
and a vital ingredient to all reforms undertaken. GOC has a clear sense of these priorities
and has outlined a coherent set of sectoral policies and programs to address them, as well
as changes to the constitution and legislation. Making these changes operational will be
a major challenge for GOC. Success will hinge on GOC's ability to overhaul its weak line
agencies, manage the ongoing decentralization process, and enlist private participation in
the delivery of public services. Improved resource allocation and the abundance of foreign
exchange stemming from capital inflows and higher oil revenues offer Colombia the means
to reach a higher growth path than in the past. In parallel, GOC's development program
aims at ensuring that the poor participate in the benefits of a growing economy.
F. Lessons Learned
35.         Technical assistance components have been included in the majority of
recent investment loans in Colombia; however, they have received low priority compared
to other project components. In some cases inadequate attention was given to preparation
and supervision. And where TA was provided to improve financial management, it often
failed to take sufficient account of the overall framework for public financial management,
and therefore proved unsustainable (e.g., the Barranquilla Water Supply Project. Ln. 2637-
CO). Central Operations Department suggests TA design should be preceded by careful
analysis of all institutional factors, including Borrower commitment. The proposed project
concept was developed jointly by the Bank and Borrower and objectives enjoy full support
of GOC at the highest levels. Other Bank experience shows the need for simplicity in
project design, again with full Borrower involvement, with verifiable indicators of
performance (Annex 12). All of the above was incorporated in the proposed project.
Additionally, lessons from public expenditure reviews suggest that institutional and
procedural reforms and the approach taken should be addressed more systematically. A
recent operation in Bolivia (Public Financial Management I (completed) and II (under
implementation) confirm that well defined and enforceable processes are critical to sustain
improvements in public expenditures. Elements of this design were built into the proposed
loan as well.



i 3S
11. The Project.
A. Project Objectives.
36.         The project objective is to initiate a process to help improve the
management of public finances in Colombia, including a spectrum of functions, from
revenue generation to the evaluation of public policies. This would be done through the
definition, installation, and deployment of accountability principles and procedures within
selected national entities, in the short to medium term (six years), as a preliminary step
before implementation throughout the public administration in the longer term.
B. Project Description.
37.         The project comprises five components: (a) Resource Mobilization; (b)
Macroprogramming; (c) Expenditure Control Management; (d) Public Policy Control,
Monitoring and Evaluation; and (e) Institutional Strengthening.  Within these five
components, the proposed project would design an integrated information system,
preparing norms and regulations that result from both existing legislation and the
information system to be designed, and installing and operationalizing the system in
selected entities at the national level principally. The specific objectives and content of
components and subcomponents are described below. Total cost of the project is US$58
million, of which 52% (or 100% of foreign costs) would be financed by the Bank and 48%
(or 100% of local costs) by the Government of Colombia.
A. Resource Mobilization.
38.         A.1. Tax Administration. This component is targeted to improve the
current operation by the implementation an information subsystem (Subsystem One) based
on implementation of tax administration as an integrated system.  The component
comprises the simultaneous evolution of operations, administration, and control through
the development of 11 interdependent computer applications. In the area of operations,
major emphasis is given to development of taxpayers welfare as well as improvement of
evasion control capacities. In addition, the project contemplates the completion of the
single taxpayer current account to help monitor withholding agents, tax administration
payment offices, and late payments.  Subsystem  One would generate the required
computerized information to implement simulation models (to be generated by the
component) aimed at simulating various tax evasion hypotheses--shadow returns--for all
tax bases. This component would help develop computerized support for ongoing
collective--sectoral/formal/informal--targeting strategies recently developed in Colombia
as a result of the lack of individualized information and/or restrictive legal capacity for
audit. This should facilitate more deliberate and organized tax policies and would provide
a basis to format the entire public financial management information subsystems.
Furthermore, the subsystem would provide information flows to facilitate an analysis of
the economic impact of different tax policy alternatives, including modifications in tariffs,
temporary or permanent exonerations, fiscal incentives, and other variables caused by
changing interpretation of tax legislation. Additionally, decentralized modules of the
subsystem would further service the computerization needs of other critical management
functions such as budget, personnel and administrative careers, procurement of goods and
services with public resources, internal control, control of efficiency, and the management



14
of fiscal assets. Related software packages will permit linking this subsystem to custom
revenues information and would support the selection process and auditing procedures in
the field. Comprehensive office automation tools would help enhance administrative
logistics to increase productivity. Improved communication capabilities would support
deconcentration efforts, linking the central administration more effectively with regional
and local entities, and improving information flows. The project would provide for the
preparation of related norms and publishing of manuals based on existing legislation and
the technical features of this information subsystem. In this regard, it was agreed at
negotiations that GOC would: (a) complete the short-term evasion control program during
the first year and develop, in parallel, the different computer applications to enable tax
administrators to test and use them as they evolve; to begin implementation of the
fiscalization strategy as defined during appraisal, with the financial support of the Public
Sector Reform Loan; and (b) as a result, by June, 1994, a 1 % increase of total collections
in real terms during 1993, due to improved tax administration, would be achieved. MOF
designated the National Director of Tax Administration as component coordinator.
39.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$28.6 million). Above objectives
would be achieved through the establishment of an integrated information subsystem to
produce a largely new set of information based on open computing technology for the
entire tax collection and customs functions. This would include hardware, software, and
related training, amounting to: (a) US$12.0 million for direct investments; (b) US$15.3
million for the use of 1,616 person/months of local and 200 person/months of international
consultants for software design, installation, and dissemination; and (c) US$0.7 million for
related training.
40.         A.2. Treasury and Public Credit. The proposed project would assist GOC
in: (a) making the legal framework for consolidating the cash management system under
Treasury work, by drafting procedures and regulations and undertaking the necessary
organizational changes in MOF; (b) designing a related information subsystem (Subsystem
TWQ) to help define and monitor financial instruments, including specific computer
software programs aimed at control and management of all public funds available within
Colombia and abroad; (c) designing software packages aimed at keeping track of flows of
public funds for each entity using public funds; (d) designing a system to continuously
evaluate financial instruments markets; and (e) defining linkages between these subsystems,
on the one hand, and the entire cash management and public credit subsystem relative to
the other computerized subsystems in the public financial management information
network. Subsystem Two would integrate information related to budget, treasury, public
credit, open market operations, and implementation.  Overall, this should result in
improving Treasury's income and payment projection capacity through the provision of a
computer-based system to track tax revenue information, cash disbursement, and public
debt payment schedules. Eventually, Treasury would become the public sector's banker.
The Directorate of Public Credit would carry out specific activities aimed at: (a) training
human resources in debt portfolio, financial management, and debt policies; (b) updating
administrative procedures, functions and job responsibilities including the implementation
of internal control rules and their corresponding manuals; and (c) the designing and
implementation of the Public Information Subsystem 2.
41.         The single national account, which MOF intends to achieve as an important
outcome of the proposed project, would reduce bank accounts and balances that exist today



15
under the name of virtually all public entities in every public resource expenditure
category. It would give the status of global public spending and thus provide benchmarks
for levels of spending in every public entity. Furthermore, it would become an important
element of control, providing key data to the Budget Directorate and to others in the
Central Government. Payment system would thus become less cumbersome, facilitating
all operations with the public sector. It is also expected that overall costs of operating the
system would diminish substantially. Finally, because of the competition created in the
banking system, private banks would be stimulated in the mid-term to become more
efficient. It was agreed at negotiations that GOC would: (a) by end 1994, norms will have
been defined in related manuals in accordance with information subsystem features, and
Treasury staff will have been trained in the new norms and procedures accordingly; (b)
by end 1995, all the above processes would be in place in the Treasury; (c) by end 1995,
all errors in reporting assets would have been rectified; (d) by end of 1995 internal control
would be fully operational showing adequate level of performance for the entire Treasury
administration; (e) by end 1996 all flows of information originated by the Treasury would
be reliable, timely, and feeding the macroprogramming function adequately, in particular
for making new investment decisions; and (f) by end 1996 cash flows will have been
improved so as to completely eliminate dormant Treasury bank accounts.
42.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities. (US$6.2 million). Treasury/Public
Credit modernization objectives include the following inputs: (a) the installation of a
computer network for management of information flows by the center and by users (280)
(US$2.6 million); (b) 260 man/months of local consultants and 35 man/months of
international specialists in debt analysis, design of information structure and of related data
bases, preparation of norms and procedures, and management training in public credit
management, negotiating skills, open market regulations, and payment procedures (US$2.6
million); (c) training activities including tutorial training by consultants, study tours, and
formal courses for about 300 staff members (US$1.0 million).
B. Macroeconomic Modelling.
43.         B. 1. Macroprogramming.  This component would help GOC establish
clear links between all information subsystems within the overall public financial
management system to improve substantially its current macroplanning of public
expenditures.  A software package would be designed to enable DNP to use all
macroeconomic variables that have implications and an effect on State financial
programming, not limited only to priority criteria of the current Administration.
Computerized models should help determine adjustment requirements as financial programs
are implemented, and enable DNP and MOF to understand early on the operational
implications of these adjustments, especially relative to other government spending
programs (Subsystem Three!. This should also help consolidate relationships within
CONFIS between DNP, MOF, and the Central Bank, in particular, to accommodate
monetary and exchange policy implications of any changes in the approved expenditure
program. Studies would also help modernize and improve macroeconomic financial
programming and the GOC's financial plan itself. In this regard, during negotiations it
was agreed that: (a) coordination would be in place and enforced by end 1995; (b) the
generation of information and the corresponding manuals would be ready by end 1995;
(c) GOC-selected entities would be able to enforce the corresponding norms by end 1996;
and (d) by end 1996, macroeconomic information would reach user entities with no delay.



16
44.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$1.3 million). This subcomponent
would include: (a) 49 person/months of local specialists to help develop the required
information system, including software programs, to design alternative approaches to
programming and macroeconomic analysis, and to prepare related norms in manuals
(US$0.4 million); and (b) acquisition of hardware and related equipment (US$0.37
million); (c) training for about 30 participants in how to use the information system and
in macroeconomic analysis for macroprogramming of public expenditures (US$0.46
million); and (d) a technical library (US$0.08 million).
C. Expenditures Management
45.         C. 1.:  Program-Based and Current Expenditures Budgeting.   This
subcomponent is aimed at generating program-based and current expenditures budgets
(Subsystem Four) for the major public entities at all administrative levels, as well as
providing these entities with evaluation information to progressively improve their own
budgeting practices, from investment requirements definition to project generation. The
budget subsystem would provide the information base to monitor and evaluate initial and
modified investment proposals made by the sectors and the spending entities in general,
from the initial stages, so as to limit arbitrary decisions in preparing the budget. This
would also contribute to supporting the cash programming for public sector spending. The
subsystem would further record any new national investment initiative and automatically
inform subnational authorities. At the subnational level, this subcomponent would help
DNP's authorities gain institutional capacity to strengthen subnational entities' capacity as
a consequence of the new rules of the game in generating and implementing investment
projects so as to improve the delivery and quality of public services under their
jurisdiction.
46.         In that respect, it was agreed at negotiations with the Government that: (a)
sectoral programs of activities would be delineated by end 1994 through the use of
program-based sectoral budgets; (b) a budgeting information system would be installed
and functioning, and budgeting subsystems would be interconnected by end 1995; (c) a
parallel subsystem would be designed and installed in DNP for budgeting transfers to
subnational levels by end 1995; (d) a system would be defined and installed to determine
accumulated budgetary deficits at the subnational level by end 1995; (e) a first consolidated
budget on new basis would be presented for 1997 (by end of 1996); (f) the same system
would be applied to public enterprises by end 1997;  and (g) most managerial,
professional, and technical staff of the Budget Directorate would have been trained by end
1995, and those of sectoral budget offices by end 1996.
47.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities. (US$5.5 million). This subcomponent
would include: (a) 287 person/months of local consultants and 3 international specialists
in budget preparation, analysis, and approaches to decentralization (US$2.3 million); (b)
equipment (computer hardware and software) (US$2.3 million); and (c) training workshops
(for about 1,500 participants) and study tours (for 10 participants) to enhance staff skills
in budget preparation and analysis (US$ 0.9 million).
48.         C.2.   Budget Expenditures Accounting.    The objective of this
subcomponent is to develop a comprehensive accounting system  (Subsystem  Five)
throughout the public sector, consistent with the accounting guidelines to be enforced in



1]7
Colombia, to ensure uniformity of accounting procedures anld classifications. It should
help entities understand their accounting requirements and basic relationship to budgeting.
A study would be carried out to ensure an integrated concept of wlhat the overall
accounting system should be, including budgeting and management of the government
accounting system and procedures. This would then be defined in manuals that would help
facilitate and ensure enforcement throughout the public administration.  A unified
accounting plan would thus be prepared using an information subsystem connected to the
above-defined subsystems. In this regard, it was agreed with GOC at negotiations that:
(a) the Accountant General would be selected and his/her Office would be organized and
completely staffed by mid- 1994; (b) all related documentation, files, and registries would
be transferred from the Comptroller's Office by end of 1994; (c) the accounting
information system would be designed and installed by end 1994; (c) accounting norms
and procedures manuals would be ready by end 1994; (d) connections would be established
with other subsystems such as Treasury, Public Credit, and Budgeting by mid-1995; (e)
accounting offices would be structured and begin operation in all the central administration
by end 1995; and (f) a general opening balance would be prepared by mid-1996.
49.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$3.8 million). This subcomponent
would include: (a) 180 person/months of local consultants and 12 person/months of
international specialists to organize and launch operation of the General Accountant's
functions in MOF and operationalize the transfer of accounts and of responsibilities from
CGR, including the revision of related norms and procedures (US$1.7 million); (b)
acquisition of related computing equipment (US$ 2.0 million); and (c) training of staff and
study tours for managers (US$0.1 million).
D. Public Policy Control and Evaluation
50.         D_.,1  Monitoring and and Evaluation of Public Policies.  GOC has made
much progress in defining government control procedures, including accommodating
constitutional provisions that have redistributed responsibilities, in particular between MOF
and CGR; hence, this subcomponent has a limited but important objective. The system
design for integrated financial management would improve substantially the definition of
"government control" and in particular DNP would take over the responsibility of
organizing and coordinating the monitoring and evaluation of public policies, programs and
projects. In addition, a study would review procurement procedures to help determine a
standard cost system for the acquisition of goods and services by the public sector. A
computer system would be designed to help keep all administrative procedures under close
monitoring control through specific indicators.
51.         This subcomponent would finance the design of an evaluation system that
would help establish monitoring indicators to: (a) design and development of an annual
program of public policy evaluation to be presented to the Borrower's Executive Branch;
(b) setting up the institutional and legal framework necessary for Subsystem Six inlcuidng
the organizationl procedures and information requirements necessary to fit the evaluation
process; (c) putting into effect guidelines on sectoral programs, and projects performance
and public policy evaluation; (d) execution of a pilot program to promote and consolidate
evaluation units in selected Administrative Agencies which could be easily replicated
throughout the remainder of the Administrative Agencies; (e) on the basis of the
experience thus with own funds gained organization of evaluation units in the



18
Administrative Agencies which perform the evaluation of sectoral policies and program
and project performance. This subcomponent would also help enhance GOC's capacity
to ensure that decisions are sound and that it becomes possible to learn from experience
systematically to improve overall public sector performance, including determining the
objectivity and efficiency of spending, in addition to confirming through implementation
experience that decisions to spend were sound and the best option. Software packages to
enhance the capacity of the current DNP's project data bank would be provided. In
addition to being connected to the other public financial management subsystems, such an
enhanced information subsystem would ensure comprehensiveness of information and
centralized data in DNP from all public entities entered into the budget, including
subnational levels. The information would then flow downwards to ensure better decision-
making processes throughout the public sector. The subsystem would also include the
information required to continuously feed monitoring and evaluation functions within and
outside the scope of DNP's specific responsibilities.
52.         Evaluation indicators would thus be provided for assessing the quality and
effectiveness of financial administration and public management, including public funds
used directly by the public sector as well as those transferred to subnational levels and
private sector entities. Computer models would be developed to assess whether the
economic impact of investment decisions, including a verification that priority criteria such
as poverty alleviation, protection of disadvantaged groups, environmental protection, and
welfare has been complied with throughout budget implementation. The subsystem would
provide data disaggregated to the level of specific projects. Tailored features would be
added to enhance the above subsystem capacity, including: (a) long-term credit impact; (b)
public sector performance in planning for preventing disasters or efficient reaction when
they occur; (c) assessment of longer-term costs of delivering key public services; and (d)
assessment of operational costs of new investment proposals. Overall, the subsystem
would be well integrated in the financial management system.
53.         It was agreed with the Government at negotiations that: (a) the monitoring
and evaluation of public policies resolution would be approved as a condition of
disbursement; (b) monitoring and evaluation of public policies units would be established
in public entities in accordance with a plan set forth in successive POAs; (c) the
monitoring and evaluation of results unit would be fully staffed in DNP as a condition of
disbursement for this component; (d) methodologies and manuals would be approved and
ready for distribution by end of 1995; (e) related information system would have been
designed and in operation by end 1995 included DNP capacity to validate information;
(f) first evaluation of results in a consolidated report would be available to the Presidency
of the Republic by end of 1995; (g) first sectoral comprehensive evaluations (public policy
evaluation) by end 1995; (h) two to three such comprehensive evaluations would be
produced yearly beginning in 1996; and (i) DNP would thus become able to guide the
macroprogramming process by end of 1996.
54.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities. (US$2.4 million). This subcomponent
would include: (a) 130 person/months of local consultants and 20 person/months of
international consultants to prepare the structure, procedures, and regulations of the
proposed internal control system, define new internal audit standards, and draft the
corresponding manuals (US$1.3 million); (b) basic and advanced training activities for
about 900 participants to ensure understanding of the new procedures and skills to



19
implement them adequately throughout in selected public administration entities (US$0.4
million); (c) informatics equipment to establish required links (US$0.6 million); and (d)
financing for printing and disseminating related manuals (US$0.08 million).
55.         D.2. External Control. The modemization of external control of public
entities in Colombia is well underway with the assistance of Canada and the US, including
the objective of making the new CGR a "center of excellence" in the area of fiscal control.
This modernization program will need to be complemented by a comprehensive training
program  to ensure long-term  sustainability of improvements underway.   This
subcomponent would provide advanced (Master-level) training for CGR staff to develop
the necessary advanced skills in audit procedures, fiscal performance reviews and analysis
of results in the areas of environmental audit, economic analysis, and review of internal
audit quality.
56.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$2.14 million). This subcomponent
would provide financing for training activities as follows: (a) basic program for 48
nonfinancial, advanced students (US$0.2 million); (b) advanced audit program for 120
participants mainly responsible for international audits of World Bank and other
international financing sources (US$0.59 million); (c) master degrees in auditing and
financial management related to technical specialties for 26 participants (US$0.96 million);
(d) seminar on fiscal perfornance and control of results for 120 participants (US$0.12
million); (e) seminar on environmental audit for 120 participants (US$0.12 million); (f)
seminar on analytical audit and financial analysis for 120 participants (US$0.12 million);
and (g) seminar on quality control of state public auditors for 40 participants (US$0.02
million). A subsidy will also be provided for 6 outstanding auditing students to intern at
either the GAO in the US (3 students) or the OAG in Canada (3 students) (US$0.03
million).
E. Institutional Development.
57.         E. 1. Strengthening Govemment Informatics.  As a result of the many
subsystems that will become operational under the project, the Government's current
informatics capacity will need to be strengthened, including the Informatics Unit in MOF.
The project would support a government-wide effort to achieve in the short term (1994-
1997) an integrated software engineering to facilitate the integration of the public financial
management subsystems, and ensure information flows are accurate, timely, and
increasingly credible and useful. The resulting network would service subsystems within
MOF and DNP as well as in sectors where functions are interrelated. MOF's Informatics
Unit would contribute to the strengthening of its counterpart units in every MOF's
Directorate involved in project implementation (See Annex 5).  Interinstitutional
relationships would be defined and enforced to establish that this central unit would have
a quality control function to ensure consistency and economy in the engineering of the
corresponding integrated system within MOF, thus establishing norms and standards to be
used by the public sector. This would include project management and control systems,
informatics security regulations and devices, related training activities, and internal control
for system management. Finally, this would also include procurement norms, standards,
and regulations when acquiring software and hardware with public money.



20
58.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$1.97 million). This subcomponent
would include: (a) 10 person/months of an international consultant for initial design of
software engineering and system integration, and 74 person/months of local consultants
for carrying out the above described responsibilities (US$0.74 million); (b) training for
175 engineers and about 100 other users (US$0.39 million); and equipment (US$0.77
million).
59.         E.2.  Project Administration.   Project implementation would be the
responsibility of DNP for the subcomponents of macroprogramming and public policy
evaluation, CGR for external control, and MOF for the remaining subcomponents. MOF,
and DNP would establish a small administrative unit with one organization specialist and
an executive secretary each. CGR would assign to its training school the responsibility
for implementing its component but would also set up a small implementation. These units
to be formally established as a condition of effectiveness, would be aimed at: (a) providing
professional advice in organizational and institutional development; (b) facilitating
administrative procedures; (b) preparing annual work programs and biannual progress
reports; and (c) acting as technical secretariat to the Coordination Committee (COCOR).
COCOR would include representatives of the three implementing entities (levels one or
two of management) and the coordination staff, would meet regularly (e.g., monthly) to
review status of implementation and of integration of the different subsystems, and would
formulate recommendations for improvement. COCOR would also be responsible for
approving annual work programs and biannual progress reports (see below) before they
are sent to the Bank for approval. The creation of COCOR and its terms of reference
would be forwarded to the Bank as condition of effectiveness. The subcomponent would
include inputs (described below) to help provide organizational assistance to themselves
and to public entities selected to be part of the installation program. Indeed, these selected
entities would be almost completely restructured to accommodate financial management
norms and procedures, in addition to what would be required as a result of absorbing new
information systems, including interinstitutional network arrangements.
60.         Subcomponent Inputs and Activities (US$3.3 million). The project would
provide financing for four years of assistance to implement units as follows: (a) 8
person/months of international consultants who are specialists in organization and
institutional development to be used during project implementation (US$0.12 million); (b)
144 person/months of local specialists in organization with experience in public financial
management (DNP and MOF) and training (CGR) (US$1.15 million); (c) 144 person/
months of support staff (US$0.29 million); and (d) office equipment, including a computer
and a fax machine in each of the three entities (US$0.09 million). Finally, the project
would finance a management service fee of 4.5% applied to two-thirds of the total cost of
the project, since only part of the procurement process would be done through this
arrangement (US$1.71 million).
C. Project Costs.
61.         Total project costs are estimated at US$58.0 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$30.0 million, or 52% of total cost. Details by project component are
provided below, with detailed costs in Annexes 1-4.



21
Estimated Costs
Components                         Local Foreign Total %For.Exch.
A. Resource Mobilization
Al Tax Administration      13,651 14,945 28,596   52%
A2 Treasury and Public Credit  2,430  3,765  6,195    61%
B. Macroeconomic Modellin2
Bi Macroprogramming          870   434  1,304    339%
C. ExRenditures Mana2ement
C1 Program-based Budgeting    2,710  2,757  5,467    50%
C2 Budget Spending Accounting  1,602  2,230  3,832    58%
D. Control and Public Policy Evaluation
DI Intemal Control          1,348  1,040  2,388    44%
D2 External Control         1,597   550  2,147    26%
E. Institutional Strenethenine
El Government Infornatics    977   992  1,969    50%
E2 Project Administration   1,440  1,816  3,256    56%
Total Base Costs                  26,625 28,529 55,154    52%
Physical Contingencies (5%)        1,331  1,426  2,757    3%
Total Proiect Costs               27,961 29,950 57,912   52%
D. Financing Plan.
62.          The proposed IBRD loan of US$30.0 million would finance approximately
52% of total project costs net of duties and taxes. This would cover 100% of foreign
costs. GOC will finance the remaining US$28.0 million with its own budget and 100%
of local costs. GOC would also provide evidence of budgetary allocation for every annual
operational plan (POA). The financing plan is set out below:
Proposed Project Financing
IBRD        %         GOC  TOTAL
-------US$ million---------
Foreign Consultants                 4.2         100         0        4.2
Local Consultants                     0          0       20.4        20.4
Training                            2.5         100       3.6        6.1
Equipment                          20.9         100       0.3       21.2
Project Administration              1.8         100       1.5        3.3
Project Total(Base Costs)          29.4         100      25.8        55.2
E. Procurement
63.          There are no civil works envisioned under the Credit; hence, procurement
would be limited to the purchase of goods and employment of consultants. The goods and
services to be financed under the project, summarized in the Table on the following page,



22
would be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
published by the Bank in May 1992. Most of the equipment to be financed by the Project
would consist of mini-computer systems for different agencies (about US$22 million), and
would be procured through ICB using mainly a 2-step bidding procedure and Bank
standard bidding documents modified as appropriate. If applicable, a margin of preference
would be applied in bid evaluation in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Such systems
would be procured in packages valued at not less than US$250,000, which is the normal
maximum ICB threshold for goods authorized for Colombia. Miscellaneous office
equipment and supplies aggregating about US$300,000 and computers which cannot be
packaged as described above, all estimated to cost below US$50,000 per contract, would
be procured through shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank. Purchase of computing
equipment would be subject to prior review by the Bank and the remaining goods would
be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions. Specific procurement provisions will
be included in the Loan Agreement in order to address areas of incompatibility between
Colombia's procurement regulations and Bank Procurement Guidelines and Practices. All
procurement will be coordinated through PIUs within MOF, DNP and CGR that have the
capability to implement procurement. However the project includes financing for the cost
of service agreement that would be used on a selective bases for certain contracts. In this
respect, service agreement costing would be based on actual time spent rather than a flat
percentage of purchasing contracts. The finalization of standard bidding documents for
goods, acceptable to the Bank, will be a condition of effectiveness.
64.         A plan for hiring consultants would be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval as part of the annual operational program (POA) before the consultants can be
hired. Consultants would be selected and employed in accordance with the World Bank:
'Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency." Consulting contracts estimated to cost above US$20,000 will require
the Bank to conduct a prior review and to comment on each step in the process by which
the Borrower selects the consulting firms. These steps include: (a) preparation of the terms
of reference and budget; (b) choice of selection procedure; (c) preparation of the shortlist
(if not single source) and the Letter of Invitation;. (d) submission of the winning proposal
of the evaluation report; and (e) negotiation of the draft contract, i.e., conditions of
employment.  Below  the prior review  threshold, Bank will review  ex-ante, the
corresponding terms of reference, and ex-post the supporting procurement documentation
on a selective basis. The consulting services contracts valued at below US$20,000 would
not exceed US$5.0 million in aggregate. However, this exception to Bank's review shall
not apply to the terms of reference, for all assignments, to the employment of individuals,
to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$20,000 equivalent or above.



23
Summary of Procurement Arraneements
Project Input                           Procurement Methods
ICB         LCB           OTHER     N.B.F.        TOTAL COST
USS Millions
Consultants Services                    -             4.2       20.4          24.6
(4.2)     ( 0.0)        (4.2)
Trmining                                -             2.5        3.6           6.1
(2.5)"    ( 0.0)        (2.5)
Equipment                   21.2        -             0.3        -             21.5
(21.2)                    (0.3)                   (21.5)
Procurement Agent/
Arrangements                            -             1.8        3.9           5.7
(1.8)     ( 0.0)        (1.8)
Tota: (Including contingencies)  21.2   -             8.8        27.9          57.9
(21.2)                    (8.8)     ( 0.0)        (30.0)
Notes:
Figures in parenthesis Bank Financing
N.B.F.: Not Bank Financed
* Scholarship and relevant expenditures (estimated at USS0.96 million) not subject to procurement.
65.          Disbursements. The disbursement schedule reflects a phasing of activities,
based on the needs to build institutional capacity related to the financial management
functions. The proceeds of the Loan would be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures on consultants, training, equipment and materials. GOC expects that most
of the Bank Loan would be disbursed at the end of the sixth year of implementation.
Except for contracts requiring prior review, that is all ICB, disbursement would be made
against statements of expenditures (SOEs), for all contracts for goods and for consulting
services valued at below US$50,000 and US$20,000, respectively, for which detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures would be reviewed by the PMUs and made
available for the required audit as well as for review by Bank supervision missions.
Minimum value for SOEs to be presented to the Bank would be US$250,000 equivalent.
To expedite disbursements, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, or
in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Bank, with an initial deposit of up to US$700,000
to cover four months average of disbursements.
66.          Accounts and Audits. Separate accounts, maintained in a central location,
would be kept for all expenditures made under the project. The PIU would maintain
records and accounts for all project activities for which the DNP, MOF, and CGR would
maintain records and accounts. The project accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank's Auditing
Guidelines, including the MSA contract. The audit reports would be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the close of the financial year.
F. Project Implementation.
67.          Project Management. The proposed project would be organized in three
separate subprojects with complementary objectives but independent implementing
arrangements and budgets. MOF would be responsible for the Resource Mobilization
(para. 38-41), Expenditures Management in close coordination with CGR for budgeting
and accounting and with DNP for budgeting (para. 44-47), and partly for
Macroprogramming (para. 43-44) and the Institutional Development (para. 57-60)
Components. DNP would be responsible for Macroeconomic Modelling (para. 43-44) and



24
Public Management Monitoring and Evaluation of Public Policies (para. 50-54), except
External Control (para. 55-56) that would be the responsibility of CGR. Every entity
would have a small project implementation unit (PIU) staffed with an organization
specialist and an executive secretary, and a coordination committee would be set up to
ensure coordination, and supervision of overall implementation (para. 59-60). Service
Agreements (SA) would be signed with specialized agencies including a clause that would
allow anyone of the three implementing entities, to contract directly out of such an
agreement and use direct payment option as allowed by the Bank, whenever this is deemed
more convenient by the authorities. It is estimated that about two-thirds of total project
proceeds would be administered by a MSA agency.
68.         Annual Work Program and Reporting. The project would be implemented
on the basis of an annual work program called "Programa Operativo Anual" (POA). The
format was agreed at appraisal. A first POA for a 15-month period was prepared during
appraisal, reviewed by GOC and submitted at negotiations. As the CGR's POA was still
missing at negotiation, it was agreed with GOC that the presentation to the Bank of a
complete POA for 1994 would be a condition of effectiveness. Subsequently, the POA
would be submitted to the Bank by October 31 of every year for an exchange of views on
what is programmed as compared to what was effectively achieved. Bank satisfaction in
that respect will determine whether the following year's POA would be approved for Bank
financing. POAs would include the following:
Partl: Evaluation of the previous POA to September 30. The first POA approved during
negotiations has used a format that is going to be used throughout implementation; and
Paart2:Annual objectives for each implementing entity or administrative unit (Form A of
the POA). Related resources and activities would be described in Form B, using the same
disaggregation of expenses categories as the ones used in formal public accounting. Form
C would include individual tasks describing what would be done during the POA period
to: (a) acquire goods and services described in Form B; (b) use them efficiently; and (c)
ensure satisfactory conditions of sustainability.  The task Form would also include
measurable performance indicators for every task wherever possible and the name of the
implementer. MOF's Tax Administration, Treasury, Public Credit, Accounting, and
Informatic Directorates, DNP's Public Investments, and Public Policy Evaluation Units,
and CGR's Training Unit would have to present separate specific POAs that would be
consolidated by COCOR before they are sent to the Bank.
69.         POAs would then be implemented separately by the different entities in
charge but under the supervision of the three Project Management Units in their respective
entities. These would consolidate the POAs at MOF, DNP, and CGR before COCOR
consolidates them into one document to be forwarded to the Bank. The consolidated POA
would also include a project-wide budget and procurement plan (a proposed
implementation schedule in included in Annexes 1 and 4). The information included in
biannual reports would be reviewed on the occasion of Bank supervision missions before
the POA of the following year can be approved. The first such review would take place
in November 1994. The second review (November 1995) would be more in-depth, in the
form of a mid-term review, to analyze achievements against the measurable performance
indicators included in Annex 6. Project design would be modified if deemed necessary by
such a formal bipartite review to improve implementation and outputs. If implementation



25
thus far is satisfactory to both parties; the Bank and GOC would prepare a possible second
similar project to help install the different subsystems and the related norms and
procedures throughout the public sector, which is GOC's long-term objective.
III. Project Justification
A. Project Benefits.
70.   It is expected that improvement of the public financial management is a sine qua
non to modemizing all aspects of public administration in Colombia. Overall, public
revenues could be increased by as much as 30%, a conservative estimate, by the year
2000, through both increasing tax collection and enhanced efficiency of public resources
programming and actual spending. Rigor in public financial management would also help
create procedures and ultimately a new accountability culture, which should reestablish
public confidence and government and public administration credibility. This would be
beneficial to creating an overall institutional environment conducive to private sector
initiatives and development.
B. Proiect Risks
71.   Risks include the inherent instability of the civil service, the weak capacity of
institutions and human resources, especially at local levels, as well as political changes
(August 1994) that could affect current national commitment.  These risks will be
ameliorated through the envisaged training and capacity building which is an inherent part
of the project. Moreover, there are incentive systems, well-trained personnel, as well
competitive salary scales within several of the agencies targeted for assistance under the
project (DIAN, DNP, and increasingly in the Ministry of Finance). Also, greater public
awareness and pressure are clear indications that the next administration would find it
difficult to reduce the level of commitment that prevailed at the time GOC designed this
proposed project. Moreover, all of the interventions are in support of changes in public
financial management embodied in the 1991 Constitution and would be vital to the
credibility of any subsequent government.
IV. Agreements Reached And Recommendation
72.   The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) project management units in MOF, DNP and CGR, which already have been
organized to participate actively in the project preparation process would be
formalized as condition of effectiveness (para. 67); and a coordinating committee
would be created and it terms of reference made available to the Bank also as a
condition of effectiveness (para. 59);
(b) an annual work program (POA) for review by the Bank, completed and put into
effect, inclusive of project activities through the end of 1994 would be forwarded
to the Bank as a condition of effectiveness; (para. 68-69)



26
(c) the Accountant General law will have been passed by Congress and his office
would be organized and completely staffed as a condition of disbursement for the
relevant component; (para.48-49)
(d) a mid-term review would be conducted to assess progress and to make necessary
adjustments to complete successfully the remaining phases of the program;
(para.69)
(e) a two-step bidding procedure will be used; (para.63-64)
(f) the resolution of the National Council for Economic and Social Policy would have
been signed to allow DNP prepare monitoring and public policy evaluation norms
as a condition of disbursement for this component (para. 53); and
(g) annual reviews will take place to allow the Bank, inter ali, to approve the
following years's POA (para. 68-69).
73.         Recommendation.  Given to the above assurances and conditions, the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million
equivalent to the Government of Colombia, for a period of twenty years, including 5 years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



Colmbia
Public Fiancial Managemnent project                                                           Annex I
Activitks, Cost Table, and Schedule of Implementation                                              Page 1 of 12
._____ _  -     nvhlmentnv ion   Schedul' (semesters)   :_-_.-_-::_;
Activies/              -      i99           19  -        19            J997  -n    O---ers                                              Projec Cosi
....-,.                  ,..-:.-,- .:. :::-.-.::            :         '--. -   .: ::- :. .-.- . Man'Monost  'o_e ,-: .tUS Cs)
- - -  Ist| 2nd   lsl | d   t j 2d W- is:   2nd:  199    1999   Lo| I      Ii           Desr.        For.       Local    Total
Code   D                                        -   ... - |                                      - - : | --.| -  -
A. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
Al. TAX ADMDuTRATION
Operational Subsystems
AIOI       SAT: Taxpayers Services                 x    x        x     x      x                              195      25                      372    1,560      1,932
Equipmnent       2,400              2,400
____        ~~Tmaining                     6         6
A102       SIP: Fiwalization          x     x      x    x        x                                           316     140                     2,100    2,528     4,628
Equipment        4,294              4,294
Tmaining                    357       357
A103       SIR: Compliance            x     x      x    x        x                                           586                                      4,688     4,688
Collection                                                                                                      Equipment        2,950              2,950
Tmaining      ____          203       203
A104       SIC: Enforcement           x*   x                                                                  72                                        576       576
Collection                                                                                                      Equipment          460                460
Training                     66        66
A____tdministralive Sub3stdems    -      -     -      -      -      -     --                    -       -       -
AIO5    | SIB: Inventories and        x     x      x     x                                                    41 |         1                      1    3281       328
___________                                                                         ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training  2> II    I1I



Colombia
Public Funancial Management Project                                                      Annex I
Activities, Cost Table, and Sehedule of Implementation                                       Page 2 of 12
|_________      J hnDlemenlation  Schedule (semestersi   _____________
Activitiesflinpitas          1994         1995         19960       J997          19809       Consultants      others             Project Costs
Man/Months   ________                $US 'ooi)
-________                        ) jgl;: i::Ist   2nd   ist   2nd   Ist   2nd   Ist   2nd   1998   199    Loa    ml.  Deser.     For.    Local    Total
Code  Dec-piion  -  - - - -  - i-    - - -  -                                                                                    -  -
A106       SAP: Financial           x    x                                                              29                                      232      232
Managemcnt                                               __                                               Equipment          21                21
Training                    I I      I1
A107      SAP: Personnel            x    x                                                              61                                      488      488
Managemnent                                                                                               Equipment         258               258
______    _______________                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training  17  17
AIOB       SAO: Office Management         x      x    x      x    x                                     21                                      168       168
Equipment       1,160             1,1604
______    ___________ __  _      _Training                                                                     3        3
A109       SGI: Informatics               x      x    x                                                 158               1                   1,264     1,264
Managemcnt                                                                                                Equipment         397               397
________  -    -           -      -    _____   -     -      -      -     _____          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Trainipg  28    28
Control Subsystems
Al10       SAI: Performance and     x    x       x    x                                                  79     29                     432      632     1,064
Intenal Audit                                                                                             Trining                      8        8
Aill       SAE: Fiscal Analysis and   x    x     x    x                                                  58      5                      72      464       536
tudi  ____    __s_                        ___                                                            Training      __   __13               13
SUB TOrAL CoMPONENr Al                                                                       1,616    199                  14,945   13,651    2R,596



Colombia
Public Fmancial Management Project                                                      Annex I
Activities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Impkmentation                                       Page 3 of 12
__________  Irplem qainSchedul (semeisterti-____- ____
AcllfeIn,s             )994         1995        19d197                   *f99         Cnutants.        Others            Poet ot
Man/Monuhs: ____    ___(us '01)
.                                    ..     O n
--2nd   lii-` 2 -                                      I 1  -LOC    Intl          Dew.:.    For.    Local    Total
A2. TRea8uRV AND PUtBUC CREDIT
Public Cnai
A201    Andis of Hild                     - s                                   _            - 
PubOc Debt Praile
Def6ntion of debt       s    x                                                              6       2                     48       30        78
guiei*puanid an..
A203   |Pubb Debt BuL p=metir an                                                                        4                                      32        32
A204      Rcvisioa of ntmal         x    x      x    x      x                                           4                                      32        32
procedures, functions and
______   rcponslbilkies                                                                                          ____                             __          .
A205                 iompl nof     x    x       x    x
Intemal Control
Procedures
A206      Implementation of human   x    x                                                                          Special                     6         6
resources organization                                                                                   coures 2 p.
A207      Revision of exenal        x    x      x    x                                                  6                                      48        48
________procedures
A208      Revis and complete      |s    x       x    x                                                 64       3                     45      512       557
infomuation mganent
procedures                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Training:  4  4
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                ~~~~~~~~     ~ ~ ~ ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,00 p/h  _ _ _
A209      DeverAopmof              I s        s       x     x    I       x s                                                                   64        64
mana|eme  infonation
|      | ~sydan|-                     |      |     | ----      |                   |              
A210      Infonatio  manageme_ t   x    K      i    I      s                                                       Equipmt          200                200
1toos for rAnancial                                                                                      2 |Satio    |     0
SpeiaHW          t00                 to0



Cobmbi
Pubflc neacial M    ua_ment projet                                                       Anne% I
Aedlvies, Cost Table, and ScwedWe of Implep aatdoi                         P-ge 4 of 12
Man/oth(us WO)
________ -t 2- ndtt ; i-;-''",;- 0' -!;' f ' '' ,''''00 f9     .a  .n    .t   nd   .a   .n 199    199    -Loca    ln            For.    Loca .To
Cnd              Descr*,tfa ..-          -   -                -.....  -    -      -     -      - .v            .     - -            .- X-' -' 
A211       Upgrde StaffSkillsin     I    x       x    x       x     x      x    x      x      x          10                                      80         80
Public Credit
Mamgeawt                                                                                                  Tnraing:                   108       108
9,000 pib
Study Tour        60                  60
20  ek
Schohuhips       400                 400
MBA (10)
Trmining:                   10        10
_ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                  300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    p/h_      _
A212       Revision ud              x    x                                                                2      3                      4S       16        61
rationalization of
adIIAaU~I~?Cpn)cess                                                                                    Study Tours        la                 is
6 weebs
A213       Revision and 4du*mcnt    x    x                                                                2       2                     30       16         46
of the financial and
opcativeleal nd ic_._                                                                                     Study Tounr        12                  1 2
4 weeks
A214       Dcopincnt oflitenal    x    x         x    x                                                   2       6                     90        16       106
Coalz~1Sysem                                                                                               6            
Coltrol system                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Study Tours  is          18
6 weeks
A215       Development of Manuals   x    x    I                                                           4       2                     30       32         62
A216       Deof one bank   x    x                                                                        36      12                    180      218        468
aoeount sbm                                                                                              |Study Toen         24                  24
a w.ek1



Cobmbia
Publi FinanJial Masagemt Project                                                         Annex I
Aditil, Cost Table, and Schedule Of Impkementation                                           Page 5 of 12
.__-_____    Imolemenvti on Scheda i (seme tersl            . ............-.-.-.:-:
Act.~~4ties/Inpa1*    1994        195          j~            97          99           Conshit          Oters.:,:         Project Costs
,.,-.:.  ....  -  :.,  . -   ''.'.'- 1'   .E h s  - ' -'1' 7''--'"'   -  an/Mohs --'''t''''$US '0-  )
lit   2n    1t   2d la          n 2nd       2d     99 199 Local   Int.             Dw            ot       oa       oa
-                                    -     -: -         -     -      --. . ..... .  0    I   - - ----  -                                       -       Ttal
A217       D jv;kpsent of           x    x                                                              is                                      144       144
infornation systen for
financial planning                                                                                        Tr667png Sh
Equipmnat        330                 330
(33 sutions)
SW               200                 200
A21S       Devclopment of           x    x       x    x      x    x       x                             75                                      600       600
Integrmted F   mnaial                                                                                     Training:                  26         26
Management System                                                                                         2,167p/h
Equipcnat       1,300              1,800 
180 stations
A219       Dcvckopmentof            x    x       x    x                                 _                                                        64        64
Mangement Inforrnation
systan
A220       Staff Tmining            x    x       x    x      x    x       x    x       x      x          10      5                      75       s0        155
Advanced                  200        200
Training (Sp)
Study Tours       60                  60
20 wccks
Training:                   6          6
5S0 p/b__ __
Sus TCrAL CowpoNrsr A2                                                                        260      35                   3,765    2,430     6.195



Colombia
Public Financial Managemtent Project                                                    Anne" I
Activities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Impkmentation                                       Page 6 of 12
:__:_::_      :__  ImDkmplt2Iion Schkedul (semesters)   ___ :    :::_____
Activtidesl7nputz            1994        19095 I  :997                         98 ga/99     Conaftants      Olher*             Project Costs
I  {  {               Man/Month*   _______                 ($~~~US MO)
.:; ~ ~    ~     ~     ~       1     -,   T  -; -0:0    ;0)i:;;:0  t    t 2    1(0   IST -  -I  r0S                                     I i00 -
istj2d    :  2nd        1st j 2nd   1st   2nod 198 99 Lcl Ia.                     Dwr          Fo    j Local    Total
Ctde           Des '                   -      ......I......-1           - "-                                                   -          ..................J..:....
B. MACROECONOMIC MODEL
Bl. MAcUopRooRtAUMNo
BIO       Estabish nwdhodology for  x    x                                                             6                             48                 48
maropgrmmng                                                                                             Libryty                    80        80
Training:                   5         5
B102      D        oveoxncnt of     x    I      x    s       x    x      x                             43                                     344        344
Infonnation System                                                                                       Equot            300                 300
30 stations
Training                    5         5
SW purchaw        72                 72
B103       Dcvelopmnt of analytcal   x    x     x    x       x    x       x    x      x      x                      Scminars          150                150
and modeling toob for                                                                                    Study Toun        300                300
ni propvgramming          .                       _                                 _                    100 weeks
SUB TOrAL COmpoNDrr Bl                                                                         49       0                    370      434      1,304
C. EXPENDITURES MANAGEMENT
Cl. PRoURAM-BASED BUDafIlNO
C1o0 to  |tgration of budgeting     x    x      x    x       x    x       x    x      x      x          34                            272                272
07         proces:                                                                                                  Eumn                0t
- edsabisbh nonna,                                                                                     |dution     1        1                   0
pamameta and
pfocedures                                                                                               Spoc                         9         9
Tnining



Colombia
Public Ftnancial Management Project                                                      Annex I
Activities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Implementation                                        Page 7 of 12
:_._--_._:_-_  -    emDemclaio n Schedul (semesters-   __....:::.-.
Activtii esin .t             1 99        199          1996         197 .8-                   Consuli..antr    Orhe               Project Csts
ManlMondu hs__                       ($us ~
._--.-.15rIs:   2nd   1st   2                        t   22id   1st-  2nd -1998.   19    LA           . -Dcr,.             For.    Local    Total
Code                            - -   - - - - - - - -
Training:                 410        410
_________                                                               ______          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~34,167 p/h____
Clog to    Budget Execution         x    x       x    x      x                                          150      3                      45    1,200      1,245
12         Consoldation and
Evaluation:                                                                                               Study Tours       120                120
- rystmtization of
infotmation                                                                                               Equipment       1,950               1,950
- vcrification and analysis                                                                               195 stios
of information                                                                                            Training:                  216       216
_________    _______________________                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~18,000  p/h _ _ _ ___ _ _ _
C113 to    Upgrading sytem          x    x       x    x      x    x       x                              48                                     384        384    w
17        capacity for trnsfer and
execution of territorial
finances:                                                                                                 Equipnt 6          60                 60
-stablish norms and                                                                                       sation
procedures
-devclop infomation                                                                                       Training:                   36        36
system                                                                                                    2,967h
Cite       Cash Programming         x    x       x    x                                                  14                                     112.       112
Subsystem
Equipment 4       40                  40
C119       Invedment nExution       x    x       x    x                                                  41                                     328        328
Monioring Subsydan                                                                                                          260                 260
26 satio
__________Co__ l_2t7_3                                                                                                     2,77Publiion  s1      15
Sum TOrAL COwPOuiMT Cl                                                                         287       3                   2,757    2,710      5,467



Colomnbi
Public Financial Managemet Project                                                       Annex I
Adiies, Cost Table, and Schedule of Impimenntsain                                             Page 3 of 12
lmotemeiotn   &clr(uMeiteri    ______
Actividesllnputs  1994      199S        )~~~~996     19            89           osatar          Ohr                Project Costs
Man/Months  __ _ ____               US 'O)
1st  2nd   1st  2nd    2nd   1998           Local  laL        ~~~~~~~     ~        ~~Desor   Fr.  Local  Total
C.2 BuDGEr SPEnha AaxnuNTNo
C201       Organize and Plbe in     x    x                                                                4      2                      30       32        62
Opeastion the Offiee of
the Geral Accour                                                                                                                l t
C20,2     lhmfer of Punedions to    x    x                                               _office                                        5 0                  50
the Gaml Aeooudnt                                             euipet ow                                                         l 
Cm0        Reviveuld Fjtb&Eh        x    x                                                                9    -                        IS    72            87
Norms and ProedumI
for Finucial Reposting in
PubHio Entikies
C204       OrpniazeadPlaein         x    x       x    K                                                  60      2                |     30      480        510
Operatica Centrl
Moounting Offices for a*l                                                                                                             48         48
Centd  Govaument                                                                                          4.000 p4h
Lcvel_                                                                                                    4,000 plh
C205       Pepae an Opening               x      x    x      x    x                                      24       3                     45       192       237
Balance Sheet
C206to    Developmentof             x    x       I    x      x    k       x    x        x      x         89      4                      60      712        772
09        integated informtion                                                                                        equipment       2,000              2,000
system in the public20stio
sector entities nectwk
Training                   30         30
2,500 p/h              _        __
C210       StaffTraining                         x    K       x    x       x    x       x      x                      Tnining                    36         36
________   ___________ _I I___   _                                                3,000 p/h             I         I   _  _
SuB TwrAL CowoNEr C2                                                                            186     12                   2,230    1,602      3,132



Colombia
Public Fiancial Management Project                                                     Annex I
Activities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Implementation                                     Page 9 of 12
Imoleme ration Schedul (semesters)            [
Activitiesllnputs           1994        1995         1996   .    1997         98W         Consulants       Others            Project Costs
Man/lonth s . ..._.  ($US '0(X)
CI de         Desc'  .           IT  2nd   Jss 2nd   1st  2nd   1           2d   1998  1999   Local   In| .        Descr.      For.    Local    Total
D. CONTROL AND PUBLIC POLICY EVALUATION
Dl INTRRNAL CONTROL AND PUBUC PoLicY EVALUATioN
DIOI      Organization and         x    x      x    x      x                                                 12                    180                180
strengthening of the                                                                                                              36        36
Special Division for                                                                                   Tr ining:
Performance Evaluation                                                                                 3.000 plh
(DEER) at DNP:                                                                                         Serninar          60                 60
- Set norns and
procedures and standards                                                                               Scholarships      80                 80
for internal control and
public policy evaluation                                                                               Training                   86        86 p
7.200 p/h
Library                    50        s0
D102      Devclopment of           x    x      x    x      x    x       x                             18                                    144       144
Information System to
support National Systen                                                                                Equipment        200                200
of Ex-Pbst Evaluation                                                                                  20 sations
Publication                10        10
Training:                   5         5
400  p/h     _ _ _ _  _ _ _
D103      Systematization of       x    x      x    x      x    x       x    x       x      x         40      8                    120      320       440
primary and
comprehnsive
evaluations of policies,
plans, programs and
projects
D104      Creation of the blneni   I    x      x    I      x s                                        36                                    288       288
Control and Evauation
division in th public                                                                                  Taining:                   95        9S
edor entities nt7k90 ph
Publishing                 10        10



CAbabla
Pbic Fimae  Mnagmemi Project                                                           Annex I
AdMka, Cot Taler, and Shetdle of Imleuemtion                                              Page 10 or 12
4ctlviikiTh~~~~U  1994  199$  2996  1997                   C'o a~~~~~~u ban's  OzAers        Pw~~~jec: Coist
:7000f0tAt;; O,0000b   --  W--00 t- if   ti00 C:Sit0-iM n --'                                 ______'__1"'US -             00)
_______________ ll Ix   2nd   Isu  2Md   Is    2n        s    n       919999   La    m.             Desr         For,    Local    Total
Code0$0         Duscu,odo t;V   E--li$ ; -    -  -    -      - l-  --0 -j             -      -]     -            -    -  -
DIOS      Integmtion of infonnation   x    x    x    x      x                                         12                                     96        96
sytan ntlLrk 
Publishing                 10        10
E-quipenot       400                400
40 stations
Training:                   6         6
1  1  1           1      1             1               ~ ~~~~~~~~~533  p/h   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
D106      Sysanatizaion of         x    x      x    x       x    x      x    x       x      x         24                                    192        192
inteanl ewhatios in
publi sector enikies
0~
Stu TVrAL COMPONENT Dl                                                                       130     20                   1,040    1,348     2,388
D2. ExrERNAL CONROL
Tnainine
D201      Basic Financial Auditing    x    x    x    x      x                                                     Training:                 202       202
_____  _____    ______  16,800  p/h
D202      Advanced Financial       x    x       x    x      x    x                                                Training:                 576       576
Auditing                                                                               ____48,000 p/h
D203      Specializd Training      x    x       x    x      x    x      x    x       x      x                                       550     410       960
D204      Fiscal Management        x    x       x    x      x    x                                                Training:                  121      121
10,080 p/h____ ____
D205      Envirnmnental Auditing   x    x       x    x      x                                                     TTaining:                  121      121
10,OS p h    __ _ _            _ _ _ _
D206      Finnncial-Economic       x    x       x    x      x                                                     Training:                  121      121
Analysis                                                                                                10,080 p/h    _       _       



Colombia
Public Financial Management Project                                                    Annex I
Activities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Implementation                                    Page II of 12
lmpkmetalion Schedule (sem.sters)   ._-_-_ |
Activities/Inpuls           1994        1995         1996.       1997         98/99       Consultants      Others            Project Costs
Man/Months                          ($US (X)O)
.1sr   2nd   1st  2nd   Ist   2nd   Ist  .2nd   1998  1999   Local   Int.        Descr.      For.    Local    Total
Code           Deswr@tion                                                                                      ____
D207      Public Sector Quality    x    x      x    x                                                             Training:                  20       20
Assura e                                                                                         _     1,680p/h
D208      Auditing Study - Canada    x    x    x    x      x    x       x    x       x     x                                                 26       26
SuB TOrAL CompoNENT D2                                                                        0       0                    550    1,597    2,147
El. STRENOTHENIN  THE INFORMATIC UNTr IN PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT                          ______    __
EIOIto    SyCotrManagemnt and    x    x        x    x      x    x                                     25      3                     45      200       245
05        Conttol:
softwareconstruction|                                                                                 Equipmcnt 4       40                 40
- software  acquisition                                                                                swtions
- supervision of software
dewWpmad                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~Training:  82  82
6,800 p/h                      ___82 __8
E106to    Staftraining:            x    x      x    x      x    x       x    x       x     x          12                                     96        96
09        -human rcesource planning
-annual training progam                                                                                Training:                 227       227
-job evaluation and                                                                                    18,940 p/h
assessment                                                                                             Equipment I       10                 10
EllOto    Ativiiesto:              x    x      x    x      x    x       x    x       x      x          7                                     56        56
12        -prmote infonnatio
cukm                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~Training:  60  60
-imzoveut dna   yl                                                                                     5,000 p/h
-unprowe technology                                                                                    Equipmnait 6      60                 60
stations
SW                so                 50



Colombia
Pubrc Finasncial Management ProJeet                                                      Annex I
Actities, Cost Table, and Schedule of Implementation                                        Page 12 of 12
___________ hnplemeuta,iton S&hedul (s1emestrsi
A(4vkiesIh*vpa               1994         1995         199         )5r  7        98199       Consultants      Other5             Project Costs
Man/MontiLt_______  sSm))_
-          _____________________ 1;--   <st   2nd   1t n              n                                                  Dcpr.        For.    Local    Total
El13 to    System Integmtion and    x    x       x    x      x    x        x    x      x       x         30       7                    105      240        345
16        Telccommunications
S1~Nti~k                                                                                                            Tmiing   16 1
Neiviork:                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,334 plh
E-quipment       450                 450
45 stations
Nctw,rk          160                 160
equipment
_________                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Study Tours  72  72
SuB TOTAL COMPONENT El                                                                           74      10                    992      977      1,969 | w
_ _ _ _               _  _  _    ~~~~~~~00
E2. PROIcr ADMINISTRTION
E201       Establish administrative  x    x      x    x       x    x       x    x       x      x        144       8                     120    1,152     1,272
unitu in DNPand MOP          l      l    l       l    l       l                   l      l       |       | Support Staff             288        288
Management      1,606              1,606
Service Fee
Office            90                  90
________________________                                        _______         ~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~Equipment   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _
SuB TrrAL COMPONENr E2                                                                          144      8                    1,316    1,440     3,256
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                                               2,746    287                  28,529   26,625    55,154



COLOMBIA
PUBUC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PRoJEcT                                                          Annex 2
(Fec r                                                           fUss)
Local            Foreign           Total       % Foreign    % Total         Local      Foreign      Total   % Foreign   % Total
Exchange  Basecoeta                                           Exchange  Baescoata
A. RESOURCE MOS1.1ZATION
Al. Tax Ad_muiiau                        10,770,639,000    11.791.605.000   22,52,244,000       52S        52%       13,651,000  14,945,000 28,596,000        52%         52%
A2. Treewy   d Pubic Crdk                 1,917,270,000    2.970.5S5.000    4.187.155.000       61%        II%       2.430.000   3.765.000  6315.000          61%         13%
Sub-TOW                                  12.687.909.000    14.762,190,000   27.450.099.000      54%        63%       1608l1,000  16,710,000  34,791,000       54%         63%
D. MACROBCONOI.C MODEL
al. mampu                                  686.430,000       342,426,000    I,028,56,000        33%         2%         870,000     434.000   1,364.000        33%         2%
Sub-TI                                     686,430,000       342,426,000    i,e28,856,000      33%          2%         870,000     434,000   1,304.000        33%         2%
C. ICPENDrfRES MANAGEMENT
Cl. PregrmB     Bhdgetdi                  2.133.190,000    2.175.273.000    4,313,463.0        50%         10%       2.710,000   2,757.000  5.467.000         50%         10%
C2.  D   SP-dift AcountingA               1.263,97,000     1,759,470.000    3.023.448,000       5%          7%        1,602,000   2,230,000  3.832,000        58%         7%
Sub-TOe                                   3.4023168,000     ,934.743.000    7.334,911.000       54%        17%       4,312,000   4.987.000  9.299,000         54%         17%
'.0
D. CONTROL AND nBUC POruCY EVALUATON
DI I.   I ae  Commal                      1,063.572,000      120.560.000    I.4I.132.000       44%          4%        1.348,000   1.040.000  2,388.000        44%         4%
D2. ExSaua Col                            936.543,0D0       757.440.000    1.693.983.000      45%          4%        1,317,000    960.000  2.147,000         45%         4%
Sub.Toli                                  2,000.115.000    1,578.000.000    3,57,115,000       44%          8%       2.535.000   2,000,000  4.535,000         44%         8%
. INsTrunONAL DEVELOENT
El. Sengheig tke Iafosind  Unit            770,853,000       782.688.000    1,553.541.000       S0%         4S         9770,o      992.000   1,969.000        50%         4%
E2. Prjcx A        _MIIaia                1.136,160,000    1,432.124.000    2,568914.000       5S%          6%        1,440.000   1.816,000  3,256,000        56%         6%
Sub-Towl                                  1,907.013,000    2,215512.000    4.122,525,000        54%         9S        2.417.000   2,808,000  5.225,000        54%         9%
.. totALIASElINKCOStS ................... ~ 0.6i5. 2,6|3 00 0    22,32,871.000 s 0De 0     100 W6%                 24, 215,000  28,939.000  55.154I.0        52%        100%
Pbyai-j Co da-iga  (5s)                   1.034.181,750    1,141.643.550    2.175,125,300       52%         5%       1,310.750   1,446.950   2,757,700         3S         5%
PNo C _  dm
TOTALPOjE    COl T1 i6i50                                  3-.9i4514j4,0;   5,923 1,300         52 -                2    ,5 -7    , 50,3 0  5t,9i752%
excmg woo   789



COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Annex 3
(USS'ONO)
RESOURCE    MACtOECONOMIC         EXPlNDrrURES          CONTOL AN              INMTIONAL
MO?lDlZATION         MODFL            MA CGKM4lI    rUDC  POLICY EVALATION         DEVELOPMENT    TOTAL
A. Comukhat Service
Loawi                           15,008                 392             3,784                       1,040              1.744  21,968
Foregn                           3,501                                  225                         300                 270   4,296
Toabd Consukai  Servics                 18,509                392             4,009                       1,340               2,014  26,264
B. Trining                               1,683                460               905                       2,515                457   6,020
C. Office EqupnmWa                      14,599                452             4,385                         680               1,148  21,264
D. Ptoject Adminitdrati  MSA                                                                                                  1,606   1,606
TOTAL B1AS E LIE COSTS  :34791                                     1,304             9299                       4,535              5,225   55,154
Physca Coingwencuis 5%                         1,740                 65               465                         227                261    2,758
Price Contingenies
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           36,531               1,369             9,764                      4,762               5,592  57,912



41
Annex 4
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year              Disbursed         Cumulative
Quarters Ending
FY1994
March   1994                   1.4                     1.4
June    1994                   1.5                     2.9
FY1995
September 1994                 1.2                     4.1
December 1994                  1.3                     5.4
March   1995                   1.3                     6.7
June    1995                   1.3                     8.0
FY1996
September 1995                 1.5                     9.5
December 1995                  1.5                     11.0
March   1996                   1.5                     12.5
June    1996                   1.7                     14.2
FY1997
September 1996                 1.5                     15.7
December 1996                  1.5                     17.2
March   1997                   1.4                     18.6
June    1997                   1.4                     20.0
FY1998
September 1997                 1.4                     21.4
December 1997                  1.4                     22.8
March   1998                   1.4                     24.2
June    1998                   1.3                     25.5
FY1999
September 1998                 1.3                     26.8
December 1998                  1.3                     28.1
March   1999                   1.0                     29.1
June    1999                   0.9                     30.0



Ministry of Finance
Organization Chart
1''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'.'.'''....    ''1  .. ......C
/    .................. . .........                                                                                         t.c
.l................../ ....     ..                .
..|.,   ,  -  , T.                                                                                    .    .....     ..I
.-... .. .. .                                                                                        ...   .,   ,..-:::'';::
1k1                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ps* l:    O*Msi    RQddi                                                                      Poi
U a oIaa.tuaNt          PIa.al             /    D.pmaf             /    Day                     ?.db.
?~aaam  /    * 3~pti   _     N.h... >"dmta,     _. Nab.>"                  _ X............
U-bense.aeiit           lain.                     _Siv_    "
* U.... P...  ciii..             air~~~        ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  aa....... ......
U4.i.u.t.a              DO    b_t muI,KI8^                                                                                                                                          
N~~aa   3aa.u.~~s  /  0. .. M ........  ............            ci     ...  ............
ai ... ................. .
U~~~.,mrnluia#~~~~~~~~  ;3..Ip  Phmi                        Po.
La~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .al....... p.........iii
aIr...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
/   AtdmimIutrutBive Unit. direclip Invoved I. project ifplement offn



Planning National Department
Organization Chart
............  ......... .;; .. . . .. .. ; . ;;;; . . ; . ... ............................. .
/  ..................................................................................................
~~~. ............. .
mild.                                                                                I              Inlonnaties Division
n d.                                                                                               Porsonndl Division ,
De,.                                                                                                 Budgdling Division
mild..~~~~~~~~~~~..............
Dlwl~~~~~~~~ .............
.daW7                                                                                               Adminho lnlavc    Division
*T d..
B",*
*Dew.
Dow..D.
mvild.
Dow.
Iob11.
h.afoeimom.
swelled*&
(pca l D. ra.le
"Who6 Cfe,.. IWw.)
IN   *o" 01 1
flat.d
/ Administrative U.nit diretdly Inyvolvd Is Pr4jQct IMInplMtultlkm



Inter-Institutional Relationship Map
MO  TY OF    |                                                        OrS
Infonnatis                                          Customs and                        .L___
|              junit              Contml Otsc|              Tax                                            NATIONAL
Administration                                    DePARTmErN
Vim|                           Technical |
| Minider |                    Vioc Minister|
| O11c Chief
Budot                                                                                            oPlanning.|
Offm o                                                                           L     Chief
Tmuurm                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~General
secretariat
PuIbblic   |                                                                 \\                                   ]                        [   Infonnaftics
Cmdk  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ _______-                                   Division
General                                                            Gcac             \\vTciton.                 |
\\ Public Fa. A         
(Speci Division
Copetion
ewb  _~~~~~~Dcc
Analyi Divtion
Int. TecE.
Coopcntion
(Special Division)
Dm
x
Li'
0 L
Li)



Colombia
Pubri Financial Management Operation                                                   Annex 6
Performance Indkators Matrix                                                  Page I of 19
Subcomponent/           Physical/Objective           Institslional           Erpected Output                 Situation               Siaruing/
Activity               Perfornance               Responsibility          and Impact                       In 1993                 Ending
Indicators                                                                                                Dates
Code        Description                             Prinary   -    Secondary                           Description of       Related
Institudonal    Institutional -Problmf Indicator
._______.___    Responsibility . Responsibility    :: 
A. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
Al. TAX ADMrISThTION
Operational Subsystemn
AIOI       SAT: Taxpayers    Reduction of          DIAN -                           -Taxpayer          Information         Cost of          95-97
Services           compliance cost of   Division of                     welfare,            demands do not     processing the
taxpayers as        Extemal                         identification of   consider            infornationX
measured by         Relations                        ways to make tax    compliance cost    requested from
independent                                          compliance easier                     taxpayers
surveys before and                                   - number of
after the project                                    compliance routes
A102       SIF: Fiscalization   -Maximization of    DIAN -                          Development of     Virtual lack, of    Evasion levels:   94-96
accuracy of         Fiscalization                    audit strategies   systematic          VAT - 36%
discriminatory      Office                           and built-in       approach to        Income Tax -
audit function to                                    compliance         fiscalization of tax   30%
target highest                                       incentives         evasion
cvaders.
-0.4% of GDP of
additional revenue
per year during
the next five years
-reducc VAT
evasion to 20%
over five years
A103       SIR: Compiance   -Minimization of    DIAN                                Operation          -Inadequatc         -4 months        94-96
Colection          transaction time    Co0ections                       software to         management of      waiting period
for taxpayers      office                            support alU        bank's data         for accounting
-transaction time                                    taxpayers          capture due to      and current
5-10 minutes                                         colection-related    cxcessive quality    account data
-immediate                                          transactions        control            -18 month
availability- of                                                        -lack of official   waiting period
information for                                                         transactions in    for fiscafization
tax administration                                                      taxpayer current    data
internal processing                                                     accounts



Publi Fblia l M      raatememt  Operation                                              Annna 6
Plerwformaue lad -lo  Matrix                                                  Page 2 of 19
Smbco~iy,onemI  PhyuicuVObje~,tivu  hsuI~udonal           Erped Oiaput                    lmal                   Startuigl
AcriWiy                Pe0m0c                    Repn bW                  n   nalin 1993                                          Ending
_________  _______________  bsdkators                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dates
Code        Decito                                  PrnryODsc4eon o~fReae
Instl*uo,~d  InL$m*  a                         rolmIndicator. 
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ ._......  esp onsIb lt   e p n I I I y_             _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _ _  _
A104        SIC: Enforcement  -Mmkimzaion of    DIAN - Legal                        Enforcement of      -Taxes in arrears    60% error in   94
Collection         late paymcnts       Collecions                       taxes in arrears    accumulate until   tax arrears
-0.2% of GDP of   Office                                                periodic amnesty    collection
additional revenue                                                      wipes out their     pogram-Plan
per year during                                                         financial cost      Ccro
the next five years                                                     -maximum Tanzi
effect
Administrative  Subsystems_                  _  _  _ _  _   __  _  _ _  _  _  _  _ _  __  _     _  _ _  _  _  _
AlOS        SIB: Inventories   Compliance with     DIAN -                           Improved            Total mnismatch    -optimum          94-95
and Goods          maintenance         Administration                   managemncrt of      between needs and   muintenance -
standards of        Office                          fiscal goods to     availability, lack  opportune
existing goods,                                     improve internal    of maintenance.    delivery -                            C
adequate lead time                                   efficiency of tax  idle equipment in   optimum
for Procurement,                                     administration     spite of needs      utilization
optimnization in the
usage of goods
MAd equipment_______
A106        SAP: Financial     Trunely and         DIAN -                            Improved           Budgetary           Synchmonization   94
Management         sufficient financial   Administration                managemnent of      management is not  of need and
support to the      Office                          fiscal goods to     structured to      financial
operational                                          improve internal    support operalions   availabdiiy
requirements of                                      efficiency of tax  in a timely way
tax administration                                   administmation
A107        SAP: Personnel     New labor           DIAN -            DIAN -          improved           Actual operation    -Career path     94
Managment          relations           Administration    School of      personnel           does not           developnmen
environment based   Office.          Taxes aNd       administration     correspond to       based on merk.
on pricing                           Customs                            lega mandate        -nmaxiization
productivity                                                                                of perfonnance
tin--
. : iffL,0;f ti;; l f # ;0 , D:: -r f :f:.i: ' -i . 0 : ' ,..... 0 ; :1 d'V.000:



Colombia
Pubric Fuandal Management Opertin                                                   Annex 6
Performace Indicators Matrix                                               Page 3 of 19
Subcoevmponer-- PhysicallObjective           .      ntfittional                                         Situation               Startingl
Actvity               Performance              Responsibi lity        wedlInypct                      In 1993                Ending
Indicawrs                                                                                             Dates
Code        Descriptioin                          Primw          Secondary                         Descripton of       Rclated
Insdiudonal     iwtitudonal                     Probkem           Indicator
Responsibiliy    Responsibilit    I  __             ___
A1O0       SAO: Office        Production of      DIAN -                         Improved           Complete lack of    Number of      94-96
Management        taxpayers          Informatics                     operation of tax  a systematic       brands and
documents and      Office                         administraion      approach to       technologies in
communications in                                 offices through    computerization of  use in the tax
a reduced time                                    the                office work flow   administration
computerization
of most office
functions
A109       SGI: Informatics    Optimum usage of   DIAN -                         Optimization of   Uncoordinated      Development     94-95
Management        available hard-    Informatics                     hardware-software  software          time of
software resources   Office                       communication      development,       applications:
capacities       junked beform       Microsit 2
usage of          years
applications, lack
of usage of
acquired
equipment
Control Subsystems
AIIO       SAI: Performanoe   Sustainability of  DLAN -                          Built-in feedback    There is no                     94-95
and Internal Audit  attained         Division of                     of tax agency      oveali agency
performanoe levels  Internal Control              performance by     perfonmance
hiearchical levels   ealuation and
very limite
opuation



Colombia
Public Phaudm  Management Operation                                                    Annex 6
Performance Iduleaors Natrix                                                  Page 4 of 19
S4 ncoiwpoiseI utd   impnr /ed  t.   hn         tition                  of     id Outpu                 Sitn  ii alln                ugI
Sl tdics            Pexrctwvr          Office                           performance        thcpnuly  rea   In1993                Ensifng
Ir d k a o j                             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  D ates
Code    ~     )s*.                                   *mu      ~     SceayDext fino                                          Rekated
All I      SAE: Fisca          Technacaily         DIAN -                           Builk-an feedback    There is no       -Errors in legal   94-95
Analysis and       impfwved            Administdration                  of tax system       undenstanding of    analysis
Studies            executive-          office                           performance        the reasons for     -incapacity to
legislative                                          under different    revenue behavior,   simulate policy
rebtions baed on                                     scenario           or understanding   changes due to
qualky                                                                  tax inciden=c for a   lack of
enhancement of                                                          given distrtbution    analytical
tax system                                                              of compliance      model of tax
performance                                                                                system
repoila
A2. TREASURY AND PUKC CnDMrr
Public Credit M"
A201 to    Analysis of         -Obtain debt        Office of Public                 Historical          Decisions on debt   Lack of criteria   94-96
03'         Historical Public    profile by 1994   Credit                           information         managemat are    for debt
Debt Pro&          -Analytical taos                                     provides            baed on currnct    strtegy
used as gupidl                                       frame'wrk for      Director's criteria
for debt stmo                                        future debt
-Published debt                                       trategy
bulktius sgailp
.     ,1995                __ae_                                                          .___ o_wfkig_pp_
'or imoro detils    nodn   papers



Colombia
Public Fmancial Management Operation                                                     Annex 6
Performance Indicators Matrix                                                  Page 5 of 19
Subconponentl           Physical/Objective            Irtsituttiona :pteid Output                              Sitution                 Startingl
Acdvity                 Perfonnance               Responsibility          and Impact                       In 1993                   Ending
Indicators                                                                                                  Dates
Code         Descrytion                              Pru.nay         s.   .,y                            Descrption of        Related
Instituional     InstIuonal                        Problim            Indicator
---____  . ,   ,  ,   ,   ,   .   _____      .    :' Responsibilty  Responsibility ._ ._ ._ ..
A20446    Rcvision of          -Draft by 1995 all   Office of Public                  -Improve           -No clear           -No job or       94-96
Intemal           job and procedurm   Credit                             management          definition of       procedure
procedures,        manuals                                               through the         procedures,         manuals
functions and      -esblish internal                                     establishment of    functions and      -Absence of
responsibilities   control prcedures                                     institutional       responsibilities    intemal control
memory
-rationalization of
the public credit
division
-Evaluation of
human resources
A207        Revision of        Information flow     Office of Public                  a more efficient   Lack of             Lack of norms    94-95
external           and procedure        Credit                           and effective       communication       and guidelines
procedures         manuals for all                                       management of       and coordination    for the
entities involved                                     public debt        between cntities    regulation of
in public debt by                                     through the        resuking in         extemal
1995                                                 cooperation of all   duplication of     procedures
entities           efforts
A208 to     Develop            - By 1996            Office of Public   Informatic    -Precise and        Present system is   -80% of          94-97
10         Information         implementation of   Credit            Unit            tirnely            inflexible to        applications
System Data        management                                            information         varying analytical   evork with
Base:              information                                           available for       needs               difficulties,
-revision of       system                                                economic,                               10% are not
procedures                                                               financial and                           utilized and the
-Management                                                              statistical analysis                    rest need to be
information                                                                                                      reformulated
system                                                                                                           -no tools to
support
managemcnt
_______ _  __________  __________       decision  making



Cobmbh
Pubie Financal Managnm  Opwation                                                      Annex 6
Perforonae lndicats Matrix                                                   Page 6 of 19
C2de         Dexrui tff       B   94 O   f         fleofPbicT,i staffw in~idw                         Dacrlc io of          Reind  Olya%teds
Skcills in Public  staff trained and   Credi                           order to increae    staff              staff has
Crsedit            100%6 by 1998                                       efficiency, crete    -No institutional    knowledge of
Management                                                             publicreditd       menory              pDrocedures
culture andk                    Inku
intstiutional
R.-Spmnor
Treasury
A212 to    Administrtive       -recompilation of    Office of the                 -TrIneafse in time       -Inefficiencies due   -Existing norms   94
IS        rsorganization of    all norns and      Tresutr                          alotted to         to the absence of    impede the
the division:      deceses thxat affect                                 planning activities   controls, lack of    efficient                      v1
-Rationalization of  treasury                                           -Treasury Dalowed   tained pestonnel    management of
administrtive      operations nd                                       to invest in other   and proceduroe tmpodrry
processes          reduce by 50% all                                   financial markcets    manuals          liquidity
-revision and      those that impede                                   -systematized      -Lack of access to  -lack of
modification of    the efficient                                       prnocedures and    financial sectors   procedural
legal Iramewosk    operation of the                                     manuals to        other than ban}ing   manuals
-develop internal    division                                          facilitate         -idle balances
control system    -reduction in the                                    operations          must be kepot in
intervention and                                                       the central bank
Trestrictions                                                          -Trasury
imposed by                                                             performs tasks not
Central Bank                                                           re ated to the
-lob and                                                               division
pprocedure manuals
-mvison an   tby 1994      d                                       -ytmtze            Lc o  cesto -ako



Colombia
Public Fnancal Management Operation                                                  Annex 6
Performance Indicators Matrix                                               Page 7 of 19
. ubconlpoiaeswll :Ph- .  slcallObive    -ciStu a I                             e-d O                    Si                      Startingi
Activity       -        edyr, e                Re.roiw y               a-d :-                         :- :- -:Imct  -In 193  a Ending
|       _   -_                  -  I- ::: : : : -:--::-.1ndicators                                                                        Dates
Code        DecwrOon                           P.  na_  y         Secondry.                         Description of       Related
.nstil -I a.d! --:,. : Instirttional             Problem            Indicator
|       _   .   - - ::             .Responsiblity    Responsfbilty -                             -_._.
A216 to    Transformation of  -Reduction of idle   Office of the                  -Determine with    -Absence of short-  -Commercial    94
17        the Treasury into   balances in        Treasurer                       accuracy actual    tcrm and medium-  banks hold an
the public ector    commercial banks                                  expendhures of    term financial      avcrage of $1.5
bank:             to zer                                             the public ector    planning to        billion in idle
-establish one    -on line system                                     -improved cash    determine          cash deposits
bank account       between Treasury                                   flow planning     investment options  -foregone
system            and the banking                                     -expedite payment  -agencies do not    interest revenue
-develop           system                                             system             execute their      amounts to $3
information       -increase                                           -reduction in      entire budget      million
system for        efficiency of                                       financial costs due                   -agencies
financial planning   budget execution                                to unnecessary                        execute only
-increased revenue                                 loans                                 70% of their                        LA
through                                                                                  budget the
investment of                                                                            other 30% is
temporary idle                                                                           kept as idle
balances                                                                                 reserves
- by 1994 division
participates in the
formulation of the
Financial Plan
A218 to    Development and   -Up to date         Office of the    Informatics     -Increased        -Lack of           Incfficicncies,    94-97
19         integration of     information        Treasurer        Unit           efficicncy of the    information      and
Information       system containing                                   division through    system precludes   incohercnces in
System             all variables                                      reduction in time    historical analysis   public financial
affecting economic                                 required to        and evaluation of    management
policy                                             process            current            due to lack of
- increased                                        informtion         management         integrated
efficiency                                         -flexibility in   -high work load     information
-data base                                         analysis through    since most        system
containing                                         financial models    operations are
effective                                          -lessen risks of   perfonned
operations of the                                  the division's     manually
division                                           operations         -management
lcks analytical
tools



Colombia
Publc Fawonal Manaement Operation                                                  Annex 6
Nlerforuance Indicatos Matrix                                              Page 8 ot l9
Subcompoisentl         PlrjtskaUObjectfre          InstitutIonAl          Expected _.tput                Sit ata,,ui            Staring/|
Activit               Pe&mneRsosblt                                    n~ipc                          n19                    Ending
Indica;; 7to                                                                                          D:ff: : ;t - . -t:-0 0 0X ; ;0000:0000 t000 t;t f;;ff; :ffff:f; :; . t- :00 -.. . . ..- . ..  ates
Code        DecieinPiiy                                          ScnayDsrpinof:                                        Reaed
institutional  Institutional   F~ob1eniIndicatOr
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ReiponuibilityResponsibili y   _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                      _  _ _ _
A220       Staff training     -Basic training of   Office of the  Under-         Training designed   -Lack of trained                  94-99
staff by 1994      Treasurer -     seretariat     to promote         staff limits the
- on-going taining   Administrative    Human      efficiency in the  development and
program            Office           Resources      division          performance of
established by                                                       the division
1995
B. MACROECONOMIC MODEL
B l. MACROPROORAMMD4
B1ol       Establish         -Operational and    Macro Policy     Macroecon.    -Available          Delays in         -Lack of staff    94
Methodology for   technical manuals   office          Analysis       technical capacity   programming due   training
Macro-            -written                            Division                          to lack of         -no established
programming       procedures                          (DNP) and                         institutional      procedures
-on-going staff                    BCR                               memory
training
B102       Development of    -Standardized       Macro Policy     Macroeeon.    -Inventory and      - Lack of norms    -Information    94-97
Information       manuals indicating   Office         Analysis       diagnosis of the   for information   lag is up to two
System            process for                         Division       information        input and retrieval  years
obtaining the                      (DNP) and      required for       -mukiple sources   -programming
minimum required                   BCR             programming       of infornation     employs 30p/m
information                                        -comprehensive    with incompatible
- information lag                                  system allowing   data
reduced to 3                                       flexibilty in     -Programming
months                                             output retrieval  based on gross
-employ a total of                                 -imely            estimates
l5p/m for                                         information
programming                                        -clarly defined
instiutional
responsibilities
for information
processing nd
transfer



Colmbia
Public Ftnancial Management Operation                                               Annex 6
Performance Indicators Matrix                                              Page 9 of 19
Subcomponent/          Physical/Objective          Insttutional           &Fpeeted Output               Situation               Startingl
Activity              Performance              Responsibility         and impact                      In 1993                Ending
Indieators                                                                                            Dates
Code        Dscription                            Primary        Secondary                         Description of      Related
Institutional   Institutional                   Problem           Indicator
Responsibility    Responsibility     -                                  _
B103       Development of    -Capacity to        Macro Policy     Macroecon.    -Alternate         -Limited           - Lack of staff   94-99
Analytical and    determine impact    Office          Analysis       mnethodologies for  analytical and   training
Modeling Tools    of extemal                          Division       macroeconomic    forecasting          -cuts in planned
impacts and                        (DNP) and      policies           capacity          long-term
macroeconomic                      Central Bank   -Coordination      -Short term        investments
policies                                          betwecn long-      adjustmcnts
-Methodologies                                    term and short-    jeopardize long
for coordinating                                  term objectives    term investments
development
planning and
sectorial policies
within the                                                                                                                   A
macroeconomic
framework
C. EXPENDITURES MANAGEMENT
Cl.    PROGRtM-BASED BuDoEraN



Colmbia
PubLic Fmancial Management Operation                                                  Annex 6
P'erformauce Indkators Matrix                                               Page 10 of 19
Subeomponentl           Physical/Objective           jnstb:al                Etpected Output                Situation               Startingl
Activity               Performance               Responiilityi          and hmpact                      In 1993                  Ending
Indicators                                                                                               Dates
Code        Description                             Prmy            Sen06daty                         Description of       Related
Institutional   Igastaiutlonal                   Problkm             Indicator
______ ;0                                        Responsibity    Resp%onsibility  _             ._____
| C101 to    Integration of   -100% budgdt         Budget Office                    -Establish        -Budget            -Budgets are      94-99
07          budgeting          execution                                            parameters for     programming        overestimated
process:           -90% of total timne                                  more efficient     inconsistent due to  by 10-15%
- establish norms,   will be dedicated                                 budget             lack of norms and   -adjustment
parameters and    to analysis and                                       programming       parameters          process requires
procedures         evaluation of                                        -norms and        -information is     70% of total
-staff training    budgets                                              budget procedure   unreliable and    time
manuals for all   untimely           -50% of
entities of the   -decreased          requested
public sector     productivity due    inforrnation is
netdwrk           to repetition of    either reoeived
-increase in      tasks               in duplicate or                    L
institutional                         not at all
commitment to
budget
-budget more
reflective of needs
-Staff trained at
all levels



Colombia
Pubic Fiunucial Masngent Operation                                                    Annex 6
Perfornanec Indkators Matrix                                                Page II of 19
Subcoenponentl          Physkal/ObJed6e              Institutional       -     pecid Oupw.  Situation                               Starting/
Activity               Performance              Responslbility   . -     aid   tw-                       In 1993                 Ending
Indicators                                                                                                Dates
Code        Descrrtion                              Prmay       . Secondary                           Dscription of        Related
.--. ltuvional.    Instititonial                  Problem            Indicator
.       _ -_:-_._.                  :_-_-:_-_:_._ .  Re sponsb y  ::Re     lity-    -_ -_-:_:::::_--y._:_:p.                         _._.
Clog to    Budget Execution   -Consolidated       Budget Office                    -Tunely flow of    -Untimely and       -Budget          94-96
12         Consoldation nd   budgdt execution                                      informnation       unreliable flow of   execution
Evaluation:        of the pubfic                                       -consolidation of   information        reported with
- systematization    sector within 15                                  criteria,          cannot be used for  up to one year
of information     days of set closing                                 mdhodologies        decision making    delay
- verification and    date                                             and sources of      -no system for     -50% of the
analysis of        -budget                                             information         tracking budgd     agencies of the
informtion         information input                                   -otain daily       execution           network do not
process time                                        budget             -lack of            report any
reduced to I week                                   information        integration        information
-regulation of     between budgeting   -information
monetary           offic and other    input process
expansion in       agencies requiring   takcs 6 weeks
Treasury           similar            -information is
information        typicaDy
returned to
agencies due to
errors
C113 to     Upgrading systen   -Law, decree and    Budget Office                   -laws and decree    -absence of norrns  -law concerning   94-97
17         capacity for        resolutions by                                      regulating the     and procedures      transfenr
transfer and       DNP concerning                                      transfer process to  -information      currently in
execution of       territorial trmnsfen                                the municipal and   stemming from      process
territorial        -periodic ex-post                                   departmental        departmental and    -information
finances:          evaluations                                         levels              municipal entities    delay three
-establish norms                                                       -information        is untimely,       years
and procedures                                                         systems to          unreliable and
-develop                                                               support the         inconsistent
information                                                            process and for     -no system for
system                                                                 monitoring fiscal    monitoring
deficits of the    financial
territorial entkics    operions of e
Clis       Cas                                    Pulbo Fin.                                                                               94 95
Progamin_g                            Irnves1uet
S -__s___ D_                                                                                                   __



Comsbia
Public Franail banagement Operation                                                 Annex 6
Performance lndicaton Matix                                               Page 12 Of 19
Skbeoenrtl             Ph skaVbj euae iilt lonuzl                          Rc   Ouapiut                  S t                    Startingl
Acfli*j   Peifoimance              Responsib ility         wdJtauI  93Edn
_______                 nEctosdaing
|Code    S Decr4'uioe                               Prbna          Secn0y    00000 0            000(Descr,ipon of i      Rec1td        
Insd0t ional     lwnal                           Prob              Indiator
__________       ________:::         Responsibiy     Responsib tlk&  __________        __ ::_______
Cl 19      Investment                            Public Fin. &                                                                         94-95
Execution                            Investment
Monitoring                           Division
Subsystem
C2.     BUDGET SPENDINM ACCoUNTING
C201       Organize and       - Standardized     General                         Establish uniform    Lack of         -Incomplete      94
Plaee in          accounting norms    Accountant                     accounting         accounting         accounting
Operation the     at the central level  Office                       standards and      management in     information
Office of the     -Consolidated                                       legal norms       public sector      -No current
General           statements of                                                                            regulating
Accountant        central and                                                                              entity 
decentralized                                                                           -Lack of normns                     o7N
levels
-Law establishing
the General
Accountant
- Creation of
regulating entity
C202       Transfer of        Office of          General                         Organize           The Comptroller's                  94
Functions to the    Accountant in    Accountant                       accounting office    Office has not
General           operation          Office                                            transferred all
Accountant                                                                              fujnctions and
inforrnation to the
MIN HAC
C203       Revise and         Accounting         General                         Standardized       -Staff lacks       Lack of         94
Establish Norms    manuals in use by   Accountant                    accounting         knowledge of       manuals
and Procedures    1994               Office                          procedures and     procedures for
for Financial                                                        trained staff      accounting
Reporting in                                                                            operations
PubLic Entities



Colombia
Public Fnancial Management Operation                                                Annex 6
Performance Indiators Matrix                                              Page 13 of 19
SSubcontposeiut/       PhyskUObje~ti~              I*sdtudonal            Erpected Oui - .....                                  Starringl
Ac..-..,        ',,,t  '   ,.e. :  n,.                                                                i .  .    .:-:n ..9.    Ending
code        DecrpiOwn                                            Seonay                             esrptone           Rlae
C204       Organize and       Accounting offices   General                       Excution of       Absence of         No accounting    94-95
Place in          in each office of    Accountant                    sccounting norms   consolidat         staff in the
Operation Centml  the central        office                                             accounting         executing
Acounting         govemrnment                                                           statemts           agencies
Offies for al
Cental
Govemment
Leveb
C205       Prepare an         -all accounts      General                         A general balance   Present accounting  -No concept of   94-96
Opening Balance    appraised at       Accountant                     adjusted and       nonns hinder the    depreciation
Sheet             current market     Office                          appraised with     financial          and valuation of
values                                             real values       evaluation of the    assets
General Balance    - accounts need
purging
C206 to    Development of    -Accounting         General                         -Monthly          -Incoherence and    -At the central   94-99
09         integrted         infonnation and     Accountant                      accounting        duplication in     level only 10%
information       consolidation in   Office                          consolidation of    information       of agencies
systemn in the   a*1 sectorial                                       the central and    because of lack of   perform
public sector     agencies                                           decentralized      infornation        accounting
entities network                                                     agencies           integration        functions
-Integration to the  -Information delay   - No
financial                            consolidation of
infornation                          statements from
system                               the
decentralzed
____________                ~~~~ ~~level_      _  _  _
C210       Staff Training     Trained stff by    General                         Knowledge and      Lack of                            95-99
1995               Accountant                     relemane of        accounting culture
office                         accounting
function__ _                                              _ _ _



Pubfie Fhaada Mauqaine. Operads                                                      As.cmc6
Pahermne l1dlcors MAtrIX                                                   Page 14 of 19
|Sa&oSwponer1          Prsi/ObJe0iv                 I       wl      X ;      pi                           Sitedn                  Start Ingi
indiE;tors                                             ...te......
Code        D      n                               prbnay :ei:ndaiy                                  D         of RO Ady    j  e - o
Institftionta   InsX:tina                         rb                n dicator
D. CONTROL AND PUBLIC POLICY EVALUATnON
D1. MoNrmu4u AND PuBuc Poucy EVALUAT10.
DIOI       Organization and    Established        Performance                     Gkbal              Absence of         Evaluation       94-96
strengthening of    manuals, norms    Evaluation                       methodologies for   methodologies,   reports generate
the Special        and criteria for   (Special                         management use    criteria, norms    non compatible
Division for       evaluations        Division)                       are defined by     and procedures     infornation and
Performance                                                            DNP                for the trcking   are not based
Evaluation                                                                               and evaluation of   on established
(DEER) at DNP:                                                                           public policies and  criteria
- Set norms and                                                                          for ex post
procedures and                                                                            evaluation of                                          00
standards for                                                                            plans, programs
internal control                                                                         and projects
and public policy
evaluation
D102       Development of      Reduce by 50%      Performance                     Information        Available          60% of staff     94-97
Information       information delay    Evaluation                      system to support  information is    time is
System to support                     (Special                        the National        dispersed,        dedicated to
National System                       Division)                        System of         incomplete,        searching for
of Ex-Post                                                             Evaluation        incoherent and out  information
Evaluation                                                                               of date



Clombha
Publi Financial Management Opeation                                                 Annex 6
Performance Indicators Matrix                                             Page 15 of 19
Su coiponentl    .        siaObjtie                In- st-tu- -nal        Erpcdr Outpu         -n                               Startingl
Activity              Pej ormawce              Responslbilty          and Impact                      In 1993                Ending
|I.Ldicator     .           :  -       ---- - s  -           :  -    ;  .  - - -  X                   Dates
Code        Descrptwon                 P:bn                      Secondary                         DOc        f         Related
Institutonal   Instituional                     Probkem            Indicator
.__-._                    Responsibility    Responsibility  - :-    ---
D103       Systematization of  -Periodic         Performance                    -DNP is in charge   Lack of systematic  Sporadic       94-99
primary and       evaluation reports   Evaluation                    of constantly      cvaluation of      cvaluations and
comprehensive                        (Special                        performing         plans, projects    without
cvaluations of                       Division)                       cvaluations        and programs       selection
policies, plans,                                                     -Generates         selected according   criteria
programs and                                                         periodic reports to  to established
projects                                                             the Presidency     criteria
and CONPES
- gencrates
comprehensive
and slected
evaluations                                                             L
-results are fed
into planning
process
D104       Creation of the    Established        Performance      Desc. Entities  internal control  Absence of        Lack of          94-96
Monitoring        manuals, norms     Evaluation                      units in a*l       institutionalized  evaluation
and Evaluation    and criteria for   (Special                        ministries and     system for control  system
division in the   internal control   Division)                       public sector      and evaluation in
public sector                                                        entities           governmental
entities network                                                                        agencies
DIOS       Integration of     Reduce by 50%      Performance      Desc.         Information        Available          60% of taff      94-96
information       information delay    Evaluation     Entities       system to support  information is    time is
systcm network                       (Special                        control and        dispersed,         dedicated to
Division)                      evaluation system   incomplete,       searching for
incoherent and out  information
of datc



Colombia
Public Fiancial Management Operation                                                         Annex 6
Performance Indicators Matrix                                                     Page 16 of 19
Subcom  /nentl            Physical/Objective             Jns*kudonal               E         xpeed: p Outpuct    :    i'uto                   Startingl
Activity                Performance                 Responsibility            a     pIn 1993                                               Ending
Indleators                                                                                                        Dates
Code         Description                                Priina,y         Secondary                            Description of          Related
Instit,a*l    In:0    nstiutional                    Problem              Ind:ictor
_______     :___________        :__________       _   fResponsibility   Responsibility  __            _      _    _  _    _  _    _    _  _  _  _   ___::__
D106        Systematization of   -Periodic             Performance       Dese.           -Ministries and      Lack of systematic   Sporadic          94-99
intemal             evaluation reports    Evaluation        Entities         public sector       evaluation of        evaluations and
evaluations in                           (Special                            entities are        plans, projects      without
public sector                             Division)                          constantly          and programs         selection
entities                                                                     performing          selected according   criteria
evaluations         to established
-Generate           criteria
periodic reports to
the Special
Division of
Evaluation
-results are fed
into planning
_____ ____ ____ _   __ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____   ___ ____ ____ process
D2. EXTEJRNAL CONTROL
D201 to     Staff Training       582 participants     General                             An on-going         Need to upgradc                         94-99
08                               trained by 1998      Comptrollers                        program of          and strengthen
Office -                           training involving    staff skills in
Training Unit                     the,Training         technical aspects
School of CGR in   of financial
the areas targeted    management and
by project          auditing in special
areas to meet
CGR's
responsibilities in
1991 Constitution



Cokombis
PubLic Fnandal Management Operatio                                                    Annex 6
Perfornance Indicators Matrix                                               Page 17 of 19
Activity               Pefra,c                  RepniilywdInpc                                            i 1993                 Ending
.. ..  .....  ..                    p.-.-.:. .                                    ..... .                                            D ate&
C    D   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                   .   ..-.-..:-.:-...   .   .. ...i   '
C      .-de  Dc o                                  P)*nwy:- S.dy                            .-......... ..  R:.-::-
InAltutll   -ut tloal                             .t' ........ . -- - -' '  .t-r..... .n dc .  ator
E. INSMUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
El. ST TENrHEN     m   INTHE RmmTI  UNT If PUuc FiNANcL  MANm3 r              __T
EIO to    Systen             -Methodology        Infomatics                       -set standards for    -Infonnrtion    -Information     94-96
05         Mangemcnt and    fully adopted by      Unit                             sofwae             system ae           systms fulfill
Control:           1997                                                constrution        developed and       only 40450% of
software          -tisfy 70% of                                       -reduce cost        acquired whout    requireme
construdion        infonnation                                         -successful        adherence to        -average 10-
- software         system                                              inplentation of   norms resuling in   month delay for
acquisition        requiremeits                                        sytems             andbigukies in the   software
- supervision of   -reduce tie for                                     -monitor s    cquene   requireents,    acquisiion
software           proceing                                            of activiies in    poor quality       -lack of nternl
develpmnn t        software                                                               softwa  and a       controls
acquistion by                                       devlpnat           lack of            -60% budget
50%                                                 -rduce risks of    accountability for   varince from
- budget variance                                   modification or    the result         inial
of s 20%                                            ls of              -softwe is          projection
- Security and                                      information        always dewloped
contrl programs                                                        in-house
in all ministries by                                                   -lack of control
1994                                                                   reuls in budget
procedme                                                               vanaoo
manuals                                                                -unrestriced
conta                                                                  acoess to system
contmigq plan,
ccess policies and
organinatio for
all ministries by
I            1 ~~~1995                                                                                   11



Colombia
Public Flacial Manageme_t Op rsatl.                                                   Annoe 6
Performansce Imdica- n  Matrix                                              Page 18 of 19
toStaffraning          -A      dntegic    Infonnh  tiastituona              -Motivted, Outpt                      lac  hStarningi
09y -hum   n resource   plansfor human  Unh                              productive and     obj993ives arend   res    eEnding
_______________  Ii.dlcaors                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dates
Code        Decrpto&n                               PinyScnap,Dsrpin lf                                                    Relaed
____________    Responiiy       Repsbiiy____ __                    ______
E106 to    Staff training:    -Annual strategic    Infornatics                     -Motivated,        -Division's        -lack human       94-99
09         -human resource    plan for human       Unit                            productive and     objectives are not   resource
pnning              oure                                               trained staff       met, often due to   planning
-annual training   devebpment                                           -improve quality    lack of qualified    -insufficient
program            -all staff is utined                                 of division's      personnel          saff trining
-job evaluation    a minimum of                                        output              -lack of objective   -high costs of
and assessment     2.5% of total                                                           mechanisms for     system
worcing hours                                                          assessing and       development
-employee                                                              promoting          -salary
incentive system                                                       personnel          discrepancies
-job manuals and                                                       -ambiguous job
competitive salary                                                     descriptions and
scacs                                                                   alary cales                                            oy
EllO to    Activities to:      -Increase to 90%   Informatics                      -High user         -Systens are       -Lack of          94-99
12         -promote           successful use and   Unit                            participation in   developed with a    documentation
infonmatic culture   satisfaction of                                    systm              low level of user   -abandoned and
-construct data    systems                                             development         input resulting in   incomplete
bank               -data base                                           -systems adhering   user              system designs
-improve           containing all                                      to time frmes,      dissatisfaction    -systems not
technology         system                                               costs             -lack of data for    user friendly
information                                         -improve quality    strategic planning
projects by 199S                                    control            -need for technical
and used to                                         -improe user       took to facilitate
monitor 95% of                                      interface          system
all projects by                                                        development
1997
-toob for softwre
development and
mutimedia
technology by
1994



Colombia
Public Fnancial Management Operation                                               Annex 6
Performance Indicators Mtrix                                             Page 19 of 19
|Sub on~p   /         Pica/ Objtiv                Insdlona !0s1:::1  .ajena                            Sit-a: .n              Startingl
Activity              PIrformane              Responsibiy            ad impact                      in 1993                 Ending
Indk:tors                                                                                            Dates
Code        Description     .               ..         y        Sedy                        -     Descrj of           Related
. Istitutional  nsibtLutional                  Probkm             Indicator
._____         .____          _ -  ::Ulp6nsibit3y   Respons*ibility   . -.-:   -  :__:__
El 13 to    System                                                                                                                   94-99
16        Integration and
Telecommuni-
cations Network
E2. PROJeCT ADMISRTION N
E201       Establish         Technical Vice     Project                        - An                                                  94-99
administrative    Minister           Implementation                 administrative
unit in DNP and    (MINHAC)          Unit (being                    unit at MOF and
MOF                                  created)                       DNP to provide
professional
Deputy Chief      Project                         advise in
(MINPLAN)         Implementation                  institutional
Unit (being                    development,
created)                       facilitate
administrative
General           Training Unit                   procedures and
Comptroler                                        prepare annual
work plans and
progress reports
-unit beoomes
Technical
Secretariat to the
Coordination
Committee
(COCOR)



64
ANNDE X7
COLOMBIA - PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT                     1 of 16
INFORMATICS PROGRAM
A- Introduction
1. This project includes an Informatics Program (IP) in support of the
objectives of the five project components. The IP will create the computerized
information systems (IS) necessary to achieve an efficient and effective
financial administration in the central government and in selected regional
authorities and public enterprises. Only major aspects of the IP's objectives,
activities and costs are explained below since a full description has been
produced in Spanish in two work documents available in the project file11.
B- Background
2. Colombia's Ministry of Finance (MOP) and its Customs Administration Office
have used computer systems for over two decades. Today most of the Ministry's
main functions are carried out with informatics support, with considerable
investment in this area, particularly by the Tax Directorate (DIAN, now merged
with the Customs Administration) where in the last 5 years about $17 million have
been spent on computers and software.
3. Existing information systems are vital to the functioning of the MOP but are
eriously lacking in scope, quality, integration and flexibility. Some of their
more obvious shortcomings are:
a- Key data -- e.g., on cash releases, public debt and financial
performance -- are redundant and inconsistent and thus cannot be relied
on for decision making. In addition, existing data bases --e.g. budget
data -- cannot be accessed readily by users or systems outside the owner
MOF directorate.   The result  is duplication  of  systems and data
collection work, as well as difficulty in reconciling the various data
sets for analysis.
b- Centralized financial management practices over the years have resulted
in weak or non-existent Information Systems (IS) support at sector
ministries and spending agencies. Budgeting, cash management and mainly
accounting are functions relatively underdeveloped outside the center,
and IS capability and literacy are seriously lacking.
c- Data flows among central government institutions are cumbersome or non-
existent. Cross-institutional access to data bases is, except for a few
weak cases, non-existent.
d-  Key  revenue  processing  systems,  such  as  for  tax  and  customs
administration, lack processing and analytical functions indispensable
to increase efficiency and effectiveness of fiscal management.   For
Si- Sstema Integrado de Administracion Financiera - SIIF - Programa
Informatico", June 1993.
- "Administracion Tributaria y Aduanera - Programa Informatico", May 1993



65
ANNEX 7
2 of 16
example, although tax computation systems are quite sophisticated, there
is not at present a reliable database of taxpayer accounts and thus the
tax collection and tax auditing functions are relatively underdeveloped.
e- There is not a system of public accounting tied to budget and cash
management.  As a result, public expenditure management is inefficient
and financial costs from expensive or unnecessary borrowing and from
poor liquidity management are very high.
e- Existing computerized systems lack proper documentation, are often
difficult to change, and have deficient security and backup features.
They were developed by Government staff without rigorous adherence to
established software engineering methodologies and quality standards.
4.   In sum, for Colombia to have efficient, fully accountable and sound public
financial management (PFM) it urgently needs to make major investments in
information systems which streamline the various functions of PFP, provide
reliable data for planning and management and facilitate transaction processing,
recording and auditing. Computer, software and telecommunication technologies
will be needed to implement these new information systems.
C- Program Scope and Highlights
S. The Informatics Program will cost about $43.7 million and be divided in two
parts as follows:
a- Tax end Customs Administration. To improve the tax administration and
customs functions of the government through a largely new set of
computerized information systems, based on open computing technology.
Cost: $28.5 million.
Information systems for the operational functions of customs
administration will be financed by a different loan. This loan will only
finance the integration of duty assessment, collection and audit with
the mainstream  income  tax systems.   Information  systems  for  tax
administration will encompass tax assessment, collection, auditing,
customer service and internal administration functions of the Tax
Directorate.
b-  Intexrated Financial Administration. To improve budgeting, accounting,
public credit, treasury, macroprogramming and public policy evaluation
functions of GOC. Data bases and systems needed to achieve this
objective will be integrated into a Public Financial Information System
(SIIF) connecting agencies with the central government.  Cost: $15.2
million.
In addition to improving the core PFM functions of budgeting,
accounting, public credit and treasury the IP will strengthen:



66
ANNEX 7
3 of 16
1) Macro Financial Planning. Through a system providing analytical and
interconnection facilities to the Public Financial Information
System (SIIF), the Tax Collection and Customs systems and the
investment and economic databas-e of DNP. Cost: $0.74 million.
2)  Policy Evaluation and Control.    Through an information system
interconnecting the data bases of DNP, MOF,  CGR and sectoral
ministries. Cost $0.88 million.
3)  Systems  Intetration  & Program Management.    Through  dedicated
management consulting support and through the standardization of
technology, work methods, human resource management, security,
contracting, data bases, and data flows of informatics activities
within the MOF. Cost: $1.96 million.
6. The following are highlights of the design of the IP:
a- A strong data administration function will be created in the MOF to
ensure that financial data flow to and from agencies in a timely, non-
redundant, and reliable basis. This function, which will require minor
organizational adjustments and technology investments, will be the
principal mechanism to achieve integration of PFM systems.
b- Although computerized systems will play a key role, much more than new
technology will be used to achieve Program objectives.   Existing
operational and administrative procedures will be streamlined and staff
will be trained to fully exploit the new systems.
c- Investments in technology will be directly tied to attainment of
functional improvements. Therefore, impact indicators will be used
throughout as a key investment justification and evaluation mechanism.
d- Information systems will be used as instruments of administrative policy
reforms. For example, the historic emphasis on tax collection will be
changed to emphasize tax compliance auditing through sophisticated
analytical software that will quantify tax evasion and identify and help
track individual evaders.
*- Information systems will embed rigorous controls on public financial
management and transaction processing efficiency. Processing of all key
transactions will only be possible through the new systems, eliminating
manual processing.
f- To increase accountability and transparency of public financial
management, new systems will include public information modules with due
security and confidentiality features.
g- The systems engineering design work done during project preparation will
be complemented early in project implementation by detailed analytical
studies of the information systems requirements and plans of the various
Government functions involved. In particular, there will be one study



67
AN.NEX 7
4 of 16
for the areas covered by the SIIF and separate studies at least for the
tax assessment, tax audit and tax collection functions.
h- Current policy of in-house software development will be gradually
changed to private sector software development in recognition of that
sector's comparative advantage in software engineering.   This will
require special training to technical staff on contracting and
supervision of software engineering companies.
i- To ensure high-quality of after-the-sale technical support and to help
strengthen the local IT industry, considerable weight will be given in
ICB evaluation to the vendors's partnership with local companies.
j- Technology used will be open and compliant with international standards
to reduce (but not completely eliminate) GOC's dependence on particular
technology vendors. State-of-the-art software engineering methods and
technology will be used to prolong the useful life of software and to
facilitate software modification following policy or procedural changes.
k- Disbursements for computer hardware will be conditioned to the prior
availability of tested application software. This will focus resources
and efforts on the more complex tasks of defining information
requirements and developing (or acquiring) the software, and reduce the
emphasis on state-of-the-art hardware procurement.
1- A telecommunication network will be created to interconnect all the
organizations involved. The network will use public facilities and its
design will be contracted with the private sector.
D- Informatics Program for Tax and Customs Administration
7.    Tax administration will be improved through investments of $28.5 million
in administrative reform, systems development and hardware/software purchases for
taxpayer services, fiscalization, compliance collection, enforcement collection
and internal administration. As indicated, the operational functions of Customs
Administration will be improved through systems financed by a different Bank
loan, and this loan will finance only the integration of the collection and
auditing of customs duties and taxes. The specific objectives, impact indicators
and activities of this program (hereafter called IP-DIAN) are contained in Annex
6, Numeral Al of the SAR
8.    Organization. Responsibility for control, planning and implementation of
IP-DIANI's activities will rest with the various functional subdirectorates within
DIAN. This strategy is but an additional step in the long-term trend away from
central data processing services in the Tax Directorate.  DIAN's functional
Subdirectors will also be members of an Informatics Committee which will make all
strategic decisions on informatices at DIAN. The Committee will be chaired by the
Director of DIAN Providing support to the Informatics Committee will be a long-



68
ATNZEX 7
5 of 16
term informatics advisor to the Director and the load informatics experts from
each of DIAN's functional subdirectorates.
9.    8enoo, Administratively, the IP-DIAN will target the totality of DIAN's
organization il.:   the central Tax and Custom.  Directorate and all the 31
regional tax offices. Functionally, the program vill encompass also the totality
of the business or functional processes carried out at DIAN, according to the
following information system architecture (with ostimated investment costs):
OPERATIONAL SUBSYSTEM                 ADMINISTRATIVE SUBSYSTEM
Taxpayer Services                      Fixed Assets system
System ($ 4.3 a)                       ($0.36 m)
Fiecalization System                   Financial Administration
($9.3 m)                               System ($0.26 m)
Compliance Collection                  Personnel Administration
System ($7.8 m)                        System ($0.75 m)
Enforement Collection                  Office Information
System ($1.1 m)                        System ($1.3 m)
Management Information
System ($1.67 m)
CONTROL SUBSYSTEM                  TAXPAYER SERVICES SYSTEM -
CUSTOMS
Management Information                 Taxpayer services system
and Internal Auditing                  for Customs ($2.4 m)
System ($1.07 m)
Fiscal and economic
analysis system ($0.55
m)
10.   The above architecture is largely an expansion of a previous one formulated
by GOC as part of a tax computerization project nsmed SIT2. The only substantial
difference is the scope of the Tax Fiscalization System which will be much more
comprehensive within the IP-DIAN, and for which a conceptual definition has
already been formulated (see Work Document, pg. 31-36). Due to the accelerated
schedule of preparation of this project and to the necd -- formulated only at
appraisal tim -- for functional decentralization of informatics activities, it
was not possible to develop a full design for the IP-DIAN and the design of SIT2
was used as the logical and budgetary framework for the new system. It will



69
ANN2EX7
6 of 16
therefore be very important to conduct design studies at the level of each
functional area within DIAN as soon as possible after project appraisal in order
to obtain a firm design, cost and schedule for the IP-DIAN.
11.   Technoloav Architecture, as indicated, vill be basically the one defined
under SIT2. This architecture calls for the use of open software technology,
relational data bases, international communications protocols end public
telecommunications   facilities,   and   standardized   software   construction
methodologies. This will minimize DIAN's dependence on single technology vendore
and facilitate software modification to accommodate tax legislation and
administration changes -- a major shortcoming of the current systems. It will
not be possible, however, to eliminate fully the dependency on technology
vendors. Certain choices of basic software -- for example for data base
management and programming language -- are strategic and would imply very high
costs if reversed in the future. Similarly, it will be inevitable to depend on
high-quality technical support from external software developers end hardware
vendors.
12.   Costs for the IP-DIAN are as indicated in Table I next.



Tibia 1. C0L0IIIA: COSIOS DEL SUCOIPONENTF  E OADINISTIACION TRIWUTARIA Y AWUANFRA
-------- C0NSULTORES  --------                        CAPACITACION                 [GUiPoS                   COSTOS
ACTIVIDAES
Locales Internacionales Total Externos locales Tecnica Usuarios Hardware Software Etxranjeros Locales Total
COSTO TOTAL OFl SUICONPONENTE                     12928              2976   15904         0         0       I02      619    11969          0            0      0  29492
SURSISTEHA Of OPfRACTON                            9352             2472   11824          0         0     66.6    564.9    10104           0           0       0 22492.
SAT: Sistema de Atencion al Contribuyente          1560              372    1932          0         0        I         5      2400         0           0       0   4337
SIf:  Sistema Integrado de Fiscalizacion           2528             2100    4628          0         0       19       338      4294         0           0       0   9760
SIR:  Sistema Integrado de Recaudacion             4688                 0    4688         0         0       45       I5      2950         0           0       0   7796
SIC:  Sistema Integrado de Cobranias                576                 0     516         0         0         1       65       460         0           0       0   1101
SUBSISTENAS ADMTNISTRATIVOS                        2480                 0    2480         0         0       33        36      1865         0           0       0   4381
SIS:  Sistema Informatico del8ienes                 328                 0     328                             1       10        29         0           0       0    367
SAF: Sistema de Administracion Financiera           232                 0     232                             I       I0        21         0           0       0    263
SAP: Sistema de Administracion de Personal          488                 0     488                            a         9       25?         0           0       0    755
SAO0  Sistema de Administracion de Oficinas         168                 0     169                             I        7      1160         0            0      0   1330
SGI:  Sistema de Gerencia Inforeatica              1264                 0    1264                           22         6       397         0            0      0   1667
SUBSISTFMAS OF CONTROL                             1096               504    1600                            2        la                                            1618
SAI:  Sislema de Control de Geslion
y Auditoria Interna                       632               432    1064                             I        7                                           1071I
SAF: Sistema de Analisis Econosico y Fiscal         464                72     536                             1       I2                                            54B
(Thousand of USSper month/men)                         (Uss Thousand   (Thousand of US$)                      (US$)
per day/student)
Costos Standard                                       a                12                 8         8    0.072    0.012



71                                          ANNEX 7
8 of 16
E- Informatics Program for Integrated Financial Administration
13.   Scope.  The PFM Project has, as one of its moat important objectives, the
creation of an Integrated Financial Information System (SIIP) encompassing the
budget, accounting, treasury and public credit functions of the central
government. This system w4il have logically integrated data bases and thus it
will help eliminate redundant data collection. The data bases for budget, public
credit and Treasury will be integrated first, and the accounting data base will
be inte8rated next, after this function has been organized formally.   The
Informatics Program to put in place the SIIF (IP-SIIF) encompasses also the
activities and investments necessary to integrate as primary users of public
financial data the macroprogramming and policy evaluation functions of the GOC,
which are discharged by the MOF, DNP and CGR. The following schematic provides
an overall view of the proposed SIIF.
CONF15I                       1- MACROPROGAMMNG;
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES~~~EXTRNA
TAX & CUSTOMNTEGRATION SYSTES 
ADMNISTRATION                                        .
TREA   PUBLIC  BUDT. 
_SUJRY CREDIT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                                   POLICY
~~~ACCOUNTING                   EVALUA-
.        /            ..  A                n~~~~~~~~~TON &
o'  s ,    T              ~~~~~CONTO
CENTRAL
MIMSTRIES
UNE AGENCES_
Figure 1 - INTEGRATED PUBLIC FINANCIAL INFORMATION
SYSTEM -- 8IIF



72                                                     ANNEX 7
9 of 16
14.    Obiective,  The objectives of the IP-DIAN, as vell as the expected impact
indicators, are defined in detail in Chapter 2 of the corresponding work
document. There are 39 different Program activities targeted to solve clearly
identified PPM problems. What follows are highlights of the problems, activities
and impact indicators for the core PPM functions.
a- Budnetina.
CURRENT SITUATIOIRIPROULDS        |  PROPOSED ACTIVITIES              IMPACT INDICATORS
Budget execution data are unreliable    Installation of a            - 30 nodes by 12/94 in
and received up to one year late.         telecom netvork               central ministries and
connecting sector             administrative
Spending authorizations by central        ministries and public         departments in the
government are issued vith up to 15       enterprises vith the          metropolitan area.
days of delay against program.            HOF.                       - 160 nodes by 12/95 in
sector agencies
- 300 nodes by 12/96 in
other spanding agencies.
- 60 nodes by 12/97 in
public_enterprises.
Current budget system is centralized    Development of an            - Only 602 of technical
and inefficient,                          Integrated budget             staff resources devoted
system as part of the         to cystm maintenance.
- 90 of technical resources in           9IIF, and related          - Upvard trend in the level
informatics devoted to system          training and technology       of decentralization of
maintenance.                           investments,                  budget transactions as
- 1002 of trnsactions entered at                                        follows:
the central ministry.
- All budget data on investment                                         -    62 by 1994.
projects is outdated.                                                 -    391 by 1995.
-    902 by 1996.
-      OO2 by 1997.
b- Treasury.
CCURRENT SITUATION/PROBLZMS           PROPOSED ACTIVITIES I          IMPACT INDICATORS
Treasury operations result in an             Development of a        Reduction of idle balances
average of S15 billion idle cash in          Treasury System         in the banking system to
the commercial banking system.               based on single bank   zero.
account
Cash flow programming system is              Development of a        Reduction of idle funds in
deficient due to lack of mid-term            cash programming        the central bank to zero.
planning and to inability to categorize   system and related
tax collections. It results in about         investments.
80.3 billion idle funds in the central
bank.



73
ANNEX 7
10 of 16
CURRENT SITUATION/PROBLEMS            PROPOSED ACTIVITIES           IMPACT INDICATORS
Lack of central government control over   Development of a           Increasing 2 of expenditures
budgetary resources allocated to            Public Expenditure      executed as per
spending agencies, resulting both in        Progremming System      macroeconomic programming.
excess balances and cash shortages.         and related
investments.
- 302 of the profits of the banking
system derived from public funds.
- 0l of allocated budget unavailable
to spending agencies due to poor
programing.
There is not an on-line communication       Installation and         300 nodes of the network
system between the central Treasury and   operation of a            operational by project
the spending agencies to coordinate         telecom network,         completion.
execution of expenditure program, which
is done with a 20Z delay.
High cost and risk of international         Use the SWIFT            - Downvward trend in the
transactions for lack of a reliable         international bank         cost of international
electronic transfer and settlement          payment system.            transfer operations.
system.
c- Public Credit.
CURRENT SITUATION/PROBLUIS            PROPOSED ACTIVITIES             IMPACT INDICATORS         l
Inadequate computing technology for   - Acquire new data base   - 30 new vorkstations
the needs of public credit                 management system.          operating on-line against
function.                               - Expand computing             systems based on the new
hardware.                   DBMS acquired.
Many Public Credit management           Develop subsystems for       - New systems specified in
functions lack adequate computing       Public Credit Management       master plan fully
support. A master plan exists for    as specified in Master            developed and operating.
development of new systems and          Plan, and integrate with
purchase of associated technology.    SIIF.
d-  Accountint.  The governmental accounting function is being transferred to
the Accountant General office in the MOF. Before informatics support can
be provided, the function needs to be organized, accounting manuals
produced, accounting procedures agreed upon and documented, and staff
trained. All these activities will be included in the Project, but are
not listed here. Only informatics-related activities are shown below:



ANNEX 7
11 of 16
CMUtU  SITUATION/lROBLDKS          PROPOSED ACTIVITIZS          IMPACT INDICATORS
Absence of a governmental          Development of a Central      - Availability of a
accounting system consolidatiAg all  Accounting System and related  Central Government
public assets and investmnts with   invstments in technology and   Accounting systm to
appropriate depreciation and       staff training.                 consolidate all
revaluation adjustments.                           _ectoral accounts.
Lack of a sectoral accounting      Development of Sectoral       - Sectoral accounts
system which consolidates all the    Accounting System and related  being produced on a
results of the expenditure and     investments in technology and   regular basis by 30
investmnt programs in the sector.   staff training,                miniaterial offices.
e-  Macropro2ramminn.  To improve economic and financial programming in the
country, the IP-SIIF will finance the development of a system to provide
analytical and interconnection facilities between the Public Financial
Information System, the Tax Collection and Customs systems, the
statistical data bases of DANE, and the investment and economic databases
of DNP.  Total cost of the system is $0.73 million, with a large part
going towards the development of analytical models for analysis of
macroeconomic programming policy alternatives.
f-  Policy Evaluation and Control.   To improve fiscal control and public
policy evaluation activities of the central government, the IP-SIIF will
finance the development of an information system interconnecting the data
bases of DNP, MOP, CGR, and sectoral ministries, and providing analysts -
both at the central government and in sector ministries - with appropriate
analytical models and methodological support. Cost $0.89 million.
g- Systems Integration. The IP-SIIF will finance the investments necessary
to achieve the integration of technology, work methods, human resource
management, security, contracting, data bases, and data flows of
informatics activities both within the MOF and among the core economic
management agencies (Cost: $1.9 million):
CURRENT SITUATION/PROBLEMS        PROPOSZD ACTIVITIES          IMPACT INDICATORS
Information systms are developed  Development and adoption of   - Ability to monitor tlme,
or acquired vithout adherence to   standard methodologies for:  cost, and sequence of
a proper methodology. This       - software construction,       activities In system
results in poor documentation,   - software acquisition.        development or
inflexibility and unreliability    - supervision of software    acquisition projects.
of software                        development.               - Systems adhering to
- Data center and systoms      standards of quality,
operation.                  security, prosentation,
flexibility, design and
documentation.



75
ANNEX 7
12 of 16
CURREJT SITUATION/PROBLEMS   I    PROPOSED ACTIVITIES    |    IMPACT INDICATORS
Inability to interconnect data    Installation and operation   As specified for the Budget
bases and tranmit financial   of a public sector telecom.  and Treasury functions.
transactions within the public    network.
sector.      __                                ____ ____ __  
Technical staff of FF and sector  - Impart over 23,000 hours   - Person/Sours of training
trainlig to assimilate and      250 IS specialists.      - Average tim between
operate new technology and                                 completion of training
systems introduced by the IP.                             and application to
scheduled activities.
15.   Implementation Strateav.  The IP will be implemented in a decentralized
maner under line management responsibility.  Since there is a strong need to
pursue integration and standardization in many areas,  the following three
coordination mechanisms will be used:
a-  A MOP Informatics Management Committee will be established to direct the
informatics activity in the Ministry.  This Committee vill be chaired by
a Vice Minister and be composed of all Ministry directors.   To be
effective, this committee should be called upon to make only the most far-
reaching strategic decisions in informatices, and not be burdened with
technical decisions and materials.  A strong Secretariat function vill
therefore be set up to manage the agenda of the Committee.
b- The Informatics Unit of the MOF will be responsible for the coordination
and supervision of the Informatics Program and for discharging the
secretariat function to the above committee.
c-  Formal agreements ("Convenios") will be required between institutions in
the public sector regarding access, structure, quality, and timeliness of
data bases of shared use.
16.   Given the large number of systems development projects to be carried out,
the MOF will contract a periodic external audit function ("Interventoria
Externa") to provide outside review of these projects.
17.   Intearation Scheme.  As indicated before, a strong data administration
function vill be created in the MOF to ensure that financial data flow to and
from agencies in a timely, non-redundant, and reliable basis. This function,
which will require minor organizational adjustments and technology investments,
vill be the principal mechanism to achieve integration of PFM systems.



76
ANNEX 7
13 of 16
18.  As recomended in the PPM Systems Workshop which initiated the preparation
of this Projectl, a strategic study was done to develop information, systems,
and technology architectures for Colombia'a SIIF. These architectures (explained
In Chapters 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the IP-SIIF Work Document) are still provisional
pending a more in-dopth strategic study to be carried out as part of the Project.
The schematic in the following page shows the proposed integration of data bases
and information system within SII.
2/See "Information System Strategies for Public Financial
Management" by Davies, Hashim and Talero; World Bank Working
Paper No. 193, Pg. 26.



77
14 of 16
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
D Iz 
iJ
I~    X     ls/  1      ;     iL   
*~~~...  ...... .....   . .....



..4-I             -     I     -     I     -     I     -     I     -     I     -     I     -                       Bill--ID....V:  411
B  I  B            I          I          Inst       I        liii             I             I              I              I     em I~~~~~~~~~~~~~O      I                                               I          I-,
I00         IO          I        Ioo          I          IgIceim. I1131                                  I              I                            I       gui                   i                       .dI013INgoivl                Iaw
II-I- I-I-i-i-i-B-                                                      1            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11  11  11--i1
II 001  los  I  I ace  I as,  I       B          I        BIll             I        x  xi  K  K         I              I              I             IO5N15G355004IOflJONV'.gdNggMAgdgOVSgkMII  555V I:                I  x   X  WASASInSV#MNV'ld9430    osa
CII  I- I-I- I- I- I- I-1111-                                                                 -          -         -          -         -          -~~~~~~~~~C co  ----------                                           ------
* II  I - I - I         -      I         I         I          I  1411        -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----------   ----- - -----------------                                -     -     -     -    --I---I
I  I  I  I  B          I          B        1111            I              i                                                          g                                                B          IrsI~~~~~~~~~1 11    X   1  
4J11- -I - I - B   -     I     -     I    -     I     -     I- 1111~------------------------------------------------          -     -     -     -      -     -     -     ------------------                   -     --B----
A11    B           B        louse        B          B          I          B        iBIB             I            el              I              I              B0.1           III
II  I - I - I   -      B    -     I     -     B    -     B- Ilil~~-----------------------------------------------------          -     -    -    -     -    -     -    -     -    -     -----------           -    -----      I
II  Buss     B        I             se~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dots  lon  es    B       Bl               BI                      cK                 B                                                IS     NS A MNflOaaV1WNO4IVNI 08         BNI
011      I            sos~~~~~~~I.  las     cus 0 s   In-        I                   Bl             Al A  A  A  Al  A  A  A  AlB  A                                                                              *"BoB        IB`4            n
011   B           B        Irnooc~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0  Iaa  Bacc Bn            I       Bll                        gl             ug l                              I               aI3                                                        loB
II II  I - B - I - I - I -   I    -     I - 1111-B                                                                                                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xx811 11101AN  31001Mtolnol:98
SIB  I  B  B    I          B           I          I        BIll            I              I              I             I              I              I                                               I           1,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x  :x    g     xxsgsOMOIMRABWOIJMIRAM    8#
P.i  asc  lo        B        B           Bce-c        llos, us    las      BPB BI                                        ~       x             K   lax          II                      erecssosNKgaoNste B                       us
*II  B - I - I     -     B     -    B     -     I    -     B - 1111~~~----------------------------------------  --------        -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -     -------------           -     --B----
to coss           ItBo icat                        I wee      Iteo                BI                               et                KKX     KBX   K  IXIXfiAKIVSflsuoddlg INON MAjWNOsCKNB    uaI                                     B
Bes         B        B                       ais       Iset        I       BllIII                                                      K                              I  eons NOIfVflWI ANN1V5IIWONVMAWNOSBDUi   Issa   I
H11  I- B-B - I -B -I - I-BIBI -                                                     -~             ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~----------------------------- - -- - ----------------- --------
i-Ill      I~~~g ulse   I        B etpg       Bs a   Ia-es o      la-it    BxiI                                         B    iXXXx  XI      X      KB Ki X  X       B             I  eonegeessIJvuca3evsicsvaoiwcwn3uoo                 s
1-411  I           lost    lass~~~~~~~~~~~0  las    a-  I                 B        Bill           Al  A  A  A  AB  A  A  A  Al AB                      I                     I                                                              
II  I        B        baooe       ia-a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZOs    lo      B        11Jil           I         3eel           I  i1          ge                 B                                                              IB
CII     B -I-I - I~~~~~~~~~~~~""          ---- --------- -               B------1-----------1--------1------- - - - - - - - - ------------------- -I  0I
All      Buss        lou~~~~~~~~~ ti 0 Inti  ofe       nut       luts        I       BB              BX:I                        eBX  KX K  K I Xl  K:           B             B                      esonssvuoaawasLiamcss    nsa   I N 
OIl  B  B  I  B          la-os      B          I        IBBI            I              I              I            al              B              B                                               I          Id~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1    XXX  esomywoglewavomgommtl    o  In
Iassistalass      B           Os        a-st       0 lose    I           I       Bill    X                       I K  KX K             KX K         X                                   ueanem           vcseAIs,avsei:  missy  I            B
oIl        I~~~~~~t ov  Bt:        tge I      SOt        I I-6    los-mAl                  XI11B                       B    iXX                       I       eel                 B     JIONIVDLMIOd-MSDII    0                              Id I
A   I           I        I            I          boson    B             B       BIll             I             B              B         siB                 B             I                                               I           1 -0,  -A  I  m
II  B        I        I           I           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~014   I  I  BIB             B I                      a                  I              B              IIl v
P  INNd 3l IV               in so   loes a Isues    laI to                    et   It          II I  a1    aB  A  AtotI AaAl  A  A  A                aiA       I       I                                                              Iag  6mo    I    B
1ioinI             I        Basue       Iaco           IaSOe    B         ISO      IBI                       ciel                          gI  Lo                                                 UAvI AW.   I    I
S      - I----------    -        -I--------------------------------------B----------------Bill-----------                                               -       -       -        -      -------------------                   -        --B-----
INIOIOOB ivce       ses    sns      ses     m  I   ee    I  ns111    cci            ses            cci            ses           ses            tes                                                    ImooI"
5-4



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :0A
IACTMTT                            ACTfVItI g                                                          g                g                g                 I                ND COST  I   COST   I  COST   I   COST   I   COST    I COST  I                              ISISTOTAL  11
I Icoot        I                                                       I logs           I   03 94        I   S oS           I t  oS         I  SON?          I   SOS9          Nil I"Sf   1   104         1 It"      I   ISBN    g               i"  1 O  g0 ItotAL    iCOM?Oi4INii
gaw.g I             g                                                       I                I        al aIlla                                   I                                  Niml        I    100001     iSeeSg1                                I         I              I 
I     I   DIM       gIJOLIC POtOCT EVALiMATIONOSUPPORT SIJSYSTSMI                            I        K         K   x K  K    K   9K             I g                                onf         l      40S"1        at -  I       ".so  gISI I                                                ii4 011
I  I  I                                                  I               ~        ~       ~    ~~~~~~I I.  aSaI       KEag                      I                lii         I            I     "eein  I      n    m,I                        I              I             i
ICTSLI      im       gPSKEVALUATION SISY5TKM                                I                I                 ix   K   K  K    K   K  K   K    KN   K  K   K   I                   Nl          I            I       9.   "eg     iOD g         SS0"             I       5sit a         Sat'
I     I             I                                                       I            it  I                         I                         I                 I                UpfiflflI                 I            I            I              II                I                     If
II  I  Kii*01   gSOFTWASENKSNSIKENSSMKTHODOLOOT                           I         K   K   iK   K   K   K   IN   K            I                I                I                 NII   l ISS       31SIJiSg            II  IS2Og                                       01
I1    I             I                                                       I                I                 I                I                 I                I                Nill        I             I            I             I             I          I                            i
I     I  St 15     ISOFTWAMIiAKOWAVACOLKSTIONMKETHDLO@VI                                 K   1K   K   K   K   I                 I                 I                I                NIl   7OSg1        207 O IS            I             I             I          g        36 
I     I     I                                                               I                of                I                I                 I                I                 Nil         I      gangI                            II 
I   I    Kil3   IPNOAECTALMTMETitODOOOGY                                    I             K   iK   K   K   K   I                I                 I                IUNi  II-64I                        4556 1              g             1                                 Sell02 
Ieg                 II                                                                        I                I                I                 I                I                 Nil         I            I            I             I             I          I             IN
II    1 1.104   gPUO.ECT AMANA@IMKNTMgTMODoOt Y                             I            K   1K   K   K   K   iK                I                 g                I                Nil   S 40 1        "O Son        S.eOg1                           g          g        so                  i
II    I             I                                                       I                I         a       I                I                 I                I                 gill        Igo        o              I             I             I          I             I              If
I A    g IS'"    gPESEC      AIIY ANOCNTOOFSWOATIMATON  FA I                         K        1    K   K  K   gKI               I                 I                I                 Ntil  IS40            " Ism      Ia                 g             I          g        ., s
gI---         -  -  -  --  -  -  -  --  -  -  - --   -  -  -  --  -  - -  --  -  -  - --  -  -  --  - -  -  --  - -  -  --  - -  -  --  -  -  -  --  -  -  - --  -  -  - --  - I1 -   -  -  -  -  -  --I   -  -  --i--       --  -I   -  --  -  -I  --   -   -  --   - - 
ITg                 I                                                       I                I         K       I                I                 I                I                 Nil         I            ISf          I             I             I          I             I              I
I     I5.100    IPKASONiSELfGtANSGMS&JSSYSMATC -ti T I                                        gK   K   K  K   Ix                I                 I                I                 Nil         I      is 41         I;                 I             I                  *m,i 
I     I                                                        I                I                I                 I                I                 I                NIl                      I             I                   I                 I              I             i
gOg fl.141i   ITNASS$IMOPSOGAMFOLANEWONUATiC                     ATAW                        I          xix  IKK g    1         gIK              IK                 KoK il                                   1         .oII                   I         i                    01
I     -  - --   --I-      --   -  - --   -  --  -  --  -  -  --   -  -- -  --  -  -  --  - --  -  --  -  - --  -  --gIl--         --  -  --  -  --  - --  -  -  --  -  -- -I-                                         I-- --I -- - -  I - -- - I-- ---- - -- - - -- -I- - -- -i
NI      I                                                        I                I                 I                I                I                 I                NilH               I            I             I            I                 I              I              i
aiim1    gQEN*OM KM GMSISSdOMATICST                               I                 gIN   K   K    INi             I ix xx x Ix                          I                 N x x       ill  I  t3OS1l       4mg,11       IS"          I i            Iso           son  I
I I       I                                                       I                 I    11          I                I                 I                IIlt"I                                  IS so                                                  gg
I I11.101    JOSVEOSSAPTIOPNMAICVLUTO H  -SW ATAIA                S    I                  S x    x    x    I jI             I                I                I                 Nil"   S.  I       t640*  1       .                aIs                               i
I  I             I                                                       I                 I    ait                          I                 I                I                gIll         I            I            I             I             I          I             Ii
I  I  KSiS   I0IANALgENIFOSAICSTN MAUE               CSIO      RA       I                  Kx   K   K   K   is   K         x I K   K    K  Kx K   K   gK   K    K   K   1KNK  K   KAgill     g                          Iaa" tan  Im           ""mg    tang1             **i"as
I                                                                                           it ~~~~~~~~~~~~II 5I  I            I                 I                Illp        g    I16mgmI                                           I         I              I             ii
I      I     ut     IE LOWO              ATSSJCD ASN                                      1   K K K             in               I                I                 I                "Ni    sin        4S*       4g      I0              I              I         I              1              1
I         I21I DAANT                                                                     ISVIIAAIN        x xx                 x x x x IS  I                   Ix              Ill          I       2a  I         G"I               I             I          I              I             It
I  El            I                                                                          S            IPS STATS LA  II                                    I  INi   I40                       i00fl1Seein                                                           IS  Ii
I      I                                                       I1                I        *       I       ~        I   a                      I 5g I                                      cn ONng                           g             g"g"I
I-------------------------------------                                                                            ------------ - - - - --- - -- -    -      -     ------ l          ---I-----I----                 I ----I------I----I -----IN
I                                      I                I~~~~~~~~~g V                      I                I                 I                 ma mg             Sng          ainI                               I         g              IN
ISiam     gfleZt      PSATAU        KftANI                                    K       I g          x                     II   x       n      g              g -              NU   sting               I             gSA          g 0I    S.  I   $soI                e.g1qr  1
g              I                I                 I                g               g    S            I                UN          I             I            I      seseg          inng             g             g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~211711I8.1ILSI     AnalI    147163I L7.l    M J     6114 I  1
g  g  I                       I                I                 I                I                I                 I                U           I             I            I             g             I          g             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.*   famI Va%I     u mI  698      as      tom
siam    gSKTSALAi*iTuie  9               g    K       K9       K        K~~~~~~~~   K    39       K       K        ~      ~       --K--K------g--t ---g-s                --a --stag    --sing-  -ing-----            g---N



80
ANNEX 8
PROJECT-RELATED TRAINING                         I of 9
A. Introduction
1.    To implement the integrated public financial management system envisaged and the
requisite technological modernization to support this reform will require substantial skill
upgrading for managers and professional staff, including accountants, lawyers, economists,
systems engineers, and selected support staff. It also will require the requisite computer
subsystems to create a comprehensive system network to link central and regional offices.
The focus is on organizations in the central government slated to receive project-related
training including the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Department of the Budget, the
Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR), and the Department of Taxation. Other line
ministries will participate in the second phase of the project. The third phase will address
skill upgrading needs of subnational governments, both departmental and municipal. The
training program described here will be effective only if the other institutional capacity
strengthening activities included in the proposed project are carried out successfully.
Innovative aspects include strengthening current interdisciplinary modules for selected
training exercises, the wider use of technology-based instruction, and the development of new
and enhancement of current distance learning modules for strengthening training efforts at
local centers, as well as overseas study tours.
2.    The Directorate for Taxation and Customs (DIAN) as well as the Comptroller General
of the Republic (CGR) maintain training departments. These departments provide training for
professional and technical staff on-site as well as on a contractual basis with local
universities. CGR also provides training for support staff. Both training facilities are
supported by audio-visual units as well as specialized libraries (15,000 volumes in DIAN and
30,000 in CGR) that are used by university students as well as professionals. Under the
proposed training activities these departments would be strengthened to the extent possible
through arrangements with local universities and by international consultants who would both
offer courses and and provide advice on curriculum upgrading.
B. Training Program
3.    The program includes 396,636 participant/hours of training. Training would be
targeted to 4,321 staff members including 299 managers, 4,010 professionals (both
administrative and technical staff) in 30 cities, where the central govemment maintains local
offices. In the pilot subproject aimed at upgrading the institutional capacity of two
departments and 10 municipalities to handle efficiently their public financial management
duties, 1,000 staff would be trained, including 200 managers, 400 professionals, and 400
support staff. Total cost of the training program is approximately US$6.95 million,
including 41 % of foreign exchange.
C. Subcomponent Description
A. Resource Mobilization
4.    A. 1. Tax Administration. The tax and customs administration subcomponent will
comprise 20 modules to support designated developmental activities and functions of DIAN.



A-NNE E-   
81                          2 of 9
Training will include management development, tax technical-related training, and new
computer-applications related training.
5.    Management Development. (a) Objective: Training in the management area is
aimed at maintaining a permanent flow of trained managers to operate the DIAN at different
hierarchical levels. (b) Capacity Gap: Colombia essentially has a generalist management
capacity. However, it lacks specialized training in areas such as tax administration, where
deep understanding of the underlying operational and technical content of the tasks is needed.
There is a need to upgrade tax administration skills among division chiefs and others at
similar administrative levels.(c) Training and Phasing: The target population for this
project are current managers and line staff who will opt to follow a management career path
within DIAN. Training would be constituted for 1.50 candidates over a period of 5 years,
representing a total cost of US$750,000.
6.    Tax Technical Training. (a) Objective: Training in specialized areas of taxes,
including legal, economic, and accounting matters, is aimed at improving the in-house
expertise, in particular for operational development of the fLsca.ization effort envisaged by
the project. (b) Capacity Gap: The lack of operational work and the elimination of most of
the experienced tax inspectors during several administrative reforms indicate that DIAN has a
sizeable capacity gap in terms of tax inspectors. (c) Training and Phasing: The target
population for this project are the current tax inspectors and probably groups of candidates
that are pre-selected for recruitment in the tax audit area. Training would be provided for
450 candidates over a period of 5 years, representing a total cost of US$900,000. Training
would include highly specialized technical training-oil industry, for instance--and more
general tax inspection preparation.
7.    Taxpayer Services (SAT--Sistema de Atenci6n al Contribuyente). (a) Objective: To
support the developments envisaged in the computer applications to be prepared under the
SAT. Capacity Gap: Although there is a unit to support taxpayers--Divulgacion Tributaria-
-DIAN--rhere is limited capacity to systematically support taxpayer compliance. (c)
Training and Phasing: The target population of this subcomponent are tax administration
staff members in charge of personally or massively supporting taxpayers. Training would
also include a small group of informatics specialists or engineers in charge of the
maintenance of the system. Expected cost is US$6,000.
8.    Fiscalization Strategies (SIF, Sistema Integrado de Fiscalizaci6n). (a) Objective: To
support the developments envisaged by the computer applications to be prepared under the
SIF. In the area of tax evasion analysis and simulation models, training would comprise
management of graphics software analysis of workflow software. In the area of tax audit
planning and management, training would support the tax audit function and tax declaration
processing, the analysis of tax evasion simulation models, and tutors for tax audits. In the
area of external information data base, support to tax audits would include training to execute
analytical studies and in capturing external sources of information pertinent to auditing.
(b) Capacity Gap: In contrast to the current accounts area, tax compliance is a much more
underdeveloped area, with a much larger training gap. The major gap in this area pertains to
the lack of human resource capacity to develop and test individual information to support
evasion hypotheses of DIAN in the field audits. Recent trends demonstrate that information
exchange represents one of the major areas of tax administration and enforcement, which
points to an ongoing gap in this area. This training subcomponent is complementary to the



AD;NEX 8
82                           3 of 9
tax evasion and simulation model and includes the same staff as well as computer experts that
will support the team. (c) Training and Phasing: The target population for this type of
training will be DIAN staff centrally and locally. In total, 60 economists would receive this
training on a yearly rotation of no more than 10 each year, at 210 perscn hours for a total of
US$3,000. In addition, 900 employees whose work is directly related to auditing would
benefit from training, with a yearly training target of 150 staff (24,354 person hours) at a
total cost of US$1.62 million. Finally, we estimate 60 people to manage external
information at a training flow of 15 per year for a total of 36,000 person hours for and
US$432,000.
9.    Taxp=aer Compliance Collection (SIR, Sistema Integrado de Recaudacion). (a)
Objective: The training component will support the development and operation of the
taxpayer current account system envisaged in SIR, and comprises the following topics:
software development for taxpayer current accounts and production of automation software.
(b) Capacity Gap: Colombia has relatively sophisticated current account software
implemented by well-prepared professional staff. Hence, a substantial capacity gap does not
exist in this area. The training need derives from implementation of software at the
subnational level. (c) Training and Phasing: The target population of professional staff
would be organized by organizational functional responsibility to include software engineers
and operators of the system within the various administrative tiers. Training would be
constituted for 15 engineers at project initiation and 3-5 each year thereafter, for a total of 40
staff during the project, representing 1,326 person/hours for a total of US$16,000 .
10.   Taxpayer Enforcement Collection (SIC, Sistema Integrado de Cobranzas). (a)
Objective: The objective is to support the developments envisaged in the computer
applications to be prepared under the SIC.(b) Capacity Gap: Due to the lack of current
account, enforcement of overdue taxes has been impossible in Colombia. Staff are not
trained to trace taxpayers in arrears so as to promote payment without having to resort to
judicial means. (c) Training and Phasing: The target population of this training is twofold:
First, a core group of informatics specialists in charge of maintaining the system, second a
wide group of users that need to familiarize themselves with the computer applications
developed to facilitate collection of tax arrears.
11.  Interal Administrative Support. Objective: The systems application to support
intemal administration requires training for managing software applications purchased or
developed for internal budgetary management, human resource management, and
accountability management. In addition, it would support the operation of and acquisition of
image digitalization. (b) Capacity Gap: The lack of computerization in this area implies the
existence of a gap in the management of computer applications and computers in general,
which will be addressed by the proposed training. (c) Training and Phasing: We estimate
that 50 staff will need this training at the rate of 10 per year. Training comprises 240 person
hours for a total coat of US$2,000.
12.   A.2. Treasury and Public Credit The Treasury and Public Credit subcomponent
comprises the following training modules.
13.   Public Credit. Objective: The objective is to rehabilitate the information structure for
managing public debt in the short and long term to satisfy expenditure programming
requirements at the macro level in a financially austere environment; establish norms and



ANO NEX S
83                           4 of 9
procedures for information system integration; build a data base for Public Debt; and
upgrade staff skills in public credit management and information processing. Capacity Gap:
Forecasting for management of Treasury funds and liquidity is inadequate, with a need to
train financial forecasting engineers in this area. Also, the structuring of information flows
does not reflect the current needs of the information system and the capacity of the system
architecture, in addition to needs generated by the proposed project. Training and Phasing:
Training consists of 16,876 participant hours at a total cost of US$527,000.
14.   Treasury. Objective: The objectives are to develop open market regulations;
transform the Treasury into a public sector bank; program Treasury disbursements; and
enhance the Treasury payment system and liquidity management. Capacity Gap: The
Treasury is characterized by lack of policies for investment and financing; lack of
accountability; a need to develop systems for cash flow planning and better financial
management since source of income is difficult to track; lack of compliance with standards of
Treasury operations; high opportunity costs since balances are often not realiable; and
absence of on-line systems. Training and Phasing: Training consists of approximately
26,100 participant hours at a cost of $US372,000.
B. Macroeconomic Model
15.   B. 1. Macroprogramming. Objective: The objective of this subcomponent is to
develop an information system along with approaches to programming and macroanalysis.
Capacity Gap: There are many conflicting sources of information with incompatible data;
the system is not user-friendly; programming is based on incomplete data; the theoretical
framework for macroanalysis is obsolete and inconsistent, with little coordination between
short- and long-term investments. Training and Phasing: Training consists of 2,720
participant hours for a total of US$310,000.
C. Expenditures Management
16.   C. 1. Program-based Budgeting. Objective: The objective is the decentralization and
deconcentration of the budget process as well as the development of an integrated budgeting
system, including staff training in budget system operations. Included is training in support
of the decentralization process to departmental and municipal levels. Capacity Gap: The
gaps pertain to uncertainty and inaccurate information, causing unreliability in timing of
budgeting information. In addition, there is a lack of interinstitutional coordination,
centralization of budgetary authority, and duplication of tasks within national and local
governments. Training and Phasing: Training consists of 115,580 participant hours at a
total cost of US$261,000.
17.   C.2. Budget Spending Accounting. Objective: The object is to assist organization and
operationalization of the Office of the General Accountant in the Ministry of Finance.
Capacity Gap: There currently is no operating system in the Office of the General
Accountant, which will need to be established. Training and Phasing: Training consists of
2,000 participant hours at a cost of US$114,000.



ANNEX 8
84                                   S of 9
D. Public Policy Evaluation
18.    D. 1. Internal Control and Public Policy Evaluation. Objective: The objective is to
strengthen the evaluation division through appropriate training.Capacity Gap: There is a
need for the development of common methodologies in the evaluation of public policy as
well as the analytical capability to interpret trends and formulate policies based on the data
gathered. Training and Phasing: Training will consist of 2,480 participant hours at a cost of
US$308,000.
19.    D.2. Extemal Control. Objective: The objective is to provide courses, seminars, and
formal academic study to strengthen critical technical and managerial skills, e.g.,
governmental auditing, tax administration, environmental auditing, financial analysis, public
sector auditing, and public sector management. Capacity Gap: There is an urgent need to
upgrade and strengthen staff skills in technical aspects of financial management and auditing
to carry out the new responsibilities of CGR. Much of the training needed is not currently
currently available in the country, hence the need for strengthening of existing training
facilities and for study tours abroad. Training and Phasing: Training will consist of 168,750
participant hours at a total cost of US$2.14 million.
TRAINIG ACIIVITIES MATRX
Category   Descsip    Duration    Possible   Main      Related    Delivery   Cost in
Number of of Training    in        Dates     Topics    Activity    Mode        usS
staff,   activity2   Participant                      Code
A. Resource Mobilization
A.1. Tax
Administration
Management      MtP (150) Mgt.                   S project   On-going   A.1.1     C/S        750,000
Development                Training              years      Mgt.
__________              ______     ______    ~~~~~Training _ _ __    _  _  _
Tax Technical    P (450)    Tax                  5 project   Leal,     A.1.2      C/S        900,000
Training                   Specializa-           years      Account.,
tions                            Econ., and
Sector
Taxpayer        T (10)     Computer                         System     A.1.3      C          6,000
Services                   Applica-                         Mainten-
tions                            ancc
Fiscalization   T (60); P   Tax       210 p/h;   10 per     Specific    A.1.4     C          3,000;
Stategies       (900); M    Specializa- 24,354   year; -; 15  Areas of                       1.62;
(60)      tion       p/h;       per year   Tax Adm.                         432,000
Software   36,000 p/h            miated to
Software
____________ _                             _______I_  A ppl.
Taxpayer        T (15)     Taxpayer   1,326 p/h  3-S per    Software   A.1.5      C          16,000
Compliance                 Current               year       Develop.
Collection                 Account                          Appl. for
System                           Current
Acct.
Taxpayer                   Computer                         Mainten-   A. 1.6     C
Enforcement                Applic.                          ance and
Collection                                                  System
Applic.



ANNEX  X
85                                   6 of 9
Category   Descrip.   Duration    Possible   Main      Related    Delivery   Cost in
N umber of of Training   in        Dates     Topics    Activity    Mode3       USS
staff    activity2   Participant                      Code
Hours
Intcrnal        M (50)    Manage-   240 p/h    10 per       Budget.,   A.1.7      C          2,000
Administrative             ment of               year       Human
Support                    Computer                         Res., and
Applic.                         Acccounta-
_________             ______                                bil.  M gt.
A.2. Public     Human      Perform.   3 months              Personnel  A206       Short      6,000
Credit          Resources  Evaluation                       Evaluation            course,
Assistant   Develop.                       and Adm.               Univ. de
(2)       of Job                                                 los Andes
Dcscript.
P (20)     Refine and  50 cach,            Data Mgt.  A208        C          12,000*
Manage    or 1,000              and
Budgetary  p/h                   Control
Informa.
T (12-15)  Financial  9,000 p/h   1 course   Financial   A211     F          108,000
Products             per year   Products
P (4)      Debt      S weeks               Financial  A211        F          60,000
Negot.,   each, 20              Products
etc.      weeks total
P (10)     MS,        10                    Finance    A211       F          400,000
schlrship   scholars, 1
year
P (5)      Develop.   800 plh               Legal      A211       F          9,600
of                               Contracts
Contracts
A.2. Treasury    P (2)                6 weeks                          A212       E          18,000
P (2)                 4 wcks                           A213       E          12,000
P (2)                 6 weeks                          A214       E          18,000
P                     667 p1h                          A219       C          8,000
P (15)                1 year                           A220a      C          200,000
P (5)                 1 year                           A220b      E          60,000
P                     500 p/h                          A220e      C          6,000
B. Macroprogramming
B.1.            T (10)     Develop.                         Data-                  C          (14,000)
Macroprogram-              of Tmg.                          gathering
ming                       Manuals                          and
Interpre-
tive
Analysis
P (20) for  Macro-    50 p/h                Methods               E, IBRD,  300,000
5 weeks; P economic                         of Macro-             IMF, in
(10)       Prog.,                           economic              Colombia
Scminars   Seminars                         program-
in Macro-                        ming
economics
C. Expenditures Management



ANNEX 8
86                                   7 of 9
Category   Descrip.   Duration    Possible   Main      Related    Delivery   Cost in
Number of of Training    in       Dates      Topics    Activity    Mode3      USS
stafif    activity2   Participant                     Code
Hours
C.1. Program-    P (1,000)  Budgeting  25,000              Basic      C104       C          300,000
based Budgeting            Norms      p/h, at 25            knowledge
per person           of
budgeting
norms
P,T,A     Budgeting  7,500 p/h             Prog.      C106       C          90,000
(300)     Program-                         Prog.
_ ming                             Design
P (25)    Human    500 p/h                 Human      C107       C          6,000
Resource                        Resource
Mgt.                            Mgt. by
Function
P (10)    Financial  12 weeks              Tech. of   C108       ETour      360,000
Program-                        Finan.
ming                            Prog.
P (100)    Dev. of    400 p/h              Budg.      C112       C          48,000
Perform.                        Perf.
Indic.                          Indic.
M (5)     Decentral. 200 p/h               Res.       CllS       C          2,400
of Fiscal                       Alloc.
Resources                       Mgt. Info.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   S y s.
P (30)    Consolid.  240 p/h               Evaluation  C117      C          2,900
Territorial                     of
Budgetary                       Consolidat
Mgmnt.                          ed
System                          Budgetary
Infor.
from the
Territories
C.2. Budget     P (50)     Accounting 80 p/h                Govern.   C204        C          48,000
Expenditure                Systems                          Acct. Syst.
Accounting                 Implem.
D. Public Policy Evaluation
D. 1. Public    P (30)     Policy     50 p/h                Knowledge D1.01       C          36,000
Policy Evaluation          Evaluation  each,                of ex-post
System                                orl00 plh             eval.
total                 methods
P (2)     Policy      1 year               Overseas              E           80.000
Evaluation                      program in
public
policy
P (30)    Policy     120 p/h               Public                 C          86,400
Evaluation  each, or             Policy
240 p/h               Evaluation
total                 Techniq.



ANNEEX 8
87                                   8 or 9
Category   Descrip..  Duration    Possible  Main      Related    Dclivcry   Cost in
Number of of Training    in       Dates      Topics    Activity    Mode'      USS
staff,    activity2   Participant                     Code
Hours
P (20)    Policy     1 week                On-site               E          60,000
Evaluation  each                Trining in
person               cx post
Evaluation
in
Overseas
Public
Entities
P (30)    Public     2 weeks               Introd. to            C         30,000
Evaluation  per person          Inform.
Systems
for
Financial
Adminis.
of the
State.
P (30)    Sector     1 month               New                   C         43,200
Policy    per                   Develpmts
Evaluation  person, 6           and
plh day              Techniques
in Sector
Analysis
D.2. External    P (48)    C          350 p/h              Basic      D201       C          201,600
Control                                                    Financial
Auditing
P (120)    C         400 p/h               Advanced  D202        C          576,000
Financial
Auditing
P (26)    S          26 for 1              Economics D203        C,E        960,000
year at              Environ.,
USS20K;              Engineer.
and 37 p/h
at USS15K
P (120)    S         42 p/h                Fiscal     D204       C          120,960
Mgt.
P (120)    S         42 p/h                Environ.   D205       C          120,960
Auditing
P (120)    S         42 p/h                Financial   D206      C          120,960
________________   _________   __________  A nalysis
P (40)     C         42 p/h                Public     D207       C          20,160
Sector
Quality
Assurance
P (6)     S/T        3 each,               Auditing   D208       E/I        25,500
Canada               Study in
and US, 1            Canada/US
year
E. Institutional Development
E.1. Informatics |        I                                                                 I _____
Systcms         T (15)                1,200 p/h             Methodo-  E.1.1                 172,000
Engineering                                                logies



88                                   9 of 9
Category   Descrip.   Duration    Possible   Main      Related    Delivery   Cost in
Number of of Training    in       Dates      Topics    Activity    Mode3       USS
staff'    activity2   Participant                     Code
Hours
Acquisition of    T (15)   S          1,200 p/h             Methodo-  E.1.2       C         62,000
Hardware and                                               logies
Software
Implementation   T (20)    S          1,600 plh             Methodo-  E.1.3       C          66,200
of Software                                                logies
Project         T (15)     S          1,200 p/h             Methodo-  E.1.4       C          86,400
Management                                                 logies
Informatics     T (15)     S          1,200 p/h            Security    E.1.5      C          86,400
Security and
Control
Planning and    M (6)      S          240 plh               Workshop  E.1.6       C          98,880
Development of                                              in
Human                                                       Planning
Resources                                                   Human
Resources
System          M (60)    S           4,800 p/h            Informatics E.1.7      C          312,000
Management                            annually             in adm.,
Training                              for 5 years          finance,
legal
aspects,
etc.
Performance and  M (14)    S          560 p/h               Workshop  E.1.8       C          30,720
Productivity                                               in
Evaluation                                                  Evaluation
of
Incentive
Systems
Occupational and  M (14)    S         140 p/h               Workshop  E.1.9       C          33,680
Salary Structure                                            in
Analysis                                                    Methodo-
logies
Strengthening   P (100)    S          7,500 p/h             Applica-   E.1.10     C          73,000
Organizational                                              tion of
Awareness of                                                Informatics
Infornatics
TOTAL: US$6.59 milLon
1. Management; Professional; Technical; Support.
2. Seminar; Course; Consultant/Tutorial; Study Trip; Field Visit.
3. Consultant-organized; _xternal Service; Existing Eormal Course; institutional Visit.



89
ANNEX 9
1 of 40
ASSESSMENT OF TAX ADMINISTRATION IN COLOMBIA
A. OVERVIEW
1.     Despite substantial progress in the design and operation of taxes, Colombia's compliance rates
remain low. This perception led the Minister of Finance to personally request technical and financial
support from several international and national agencies.
2.     The Colombian tax administration production function has been completely transformed in its
substance', processes, and technology during the last 20 years. Tax administration in Colombia is
considered by many in the country as one of the leading public sector management models based on its
recent revenue performance as well as its innovative institutional development features. To a large
extent, this reputation derives from the inherent perception of any tax administration as a going concern.
In essence, the Colombian taxpayer community now perceives important and positive changes in the way
the State relates to them, especially during the last few years.
3.     Perhaps the most perceptible change during the 1980s was the combination of: (a) contracting out
the tax declaration and subsequent payments to the banking system in 1987; and (b) the transfer of
payment responsibilities of relatively hard-to-tax transactions from taxpayers to third-parties involved in
the transaction through withholding responsibilities. This approach completely revised the ill-designed
process and and weak institutional definitions that were initiated in the late 60s. Tax declaration and
payment at bank agencies has as its main features: (a) a taxpayer service approach not only because of
the increase of service points but also because (b) it was implemented through a relatively prompt
computerization, and (c) it was supported by the simplification of the procedural system, i.e., the
reduction of compliance costs by the elimination of tax returns from small and medium-size salaried
taxpayers, for which the tax withheld was legally defined as the final obligation. At the outset of the
1990s, taxpayers perceived increasing emphasis in the control of evasion based on large-scale programs
supported by aggregate or sectoral statistical data that could challenge their returns. While the task was
relatively successful, it can not be sustained without improved computerization support.
4.     On closer examination, however, this evaluation may overstate reality because it is not easy to
isolate (a) the performance of the economic system and its implications for tax revenues from (b) the
legislative changes-substantive, procedural and organizational--that improve or damage the tax base or
its compliance conditions, plus (c) the tax administration policy and its associated capacity development.
As this annex illustrates, these three factors may have profoundly affected the level of tax revenue
collection in Colombia. The fact that the Government has made extensive use of legislative changes
indicates insufficient performance. In particular, the contribution from oil extraction and gasoline
consumption is part of the explanation of the improved revenue performance. Obviously, these revenue
sources are exogenous to tax administration. Nonetheless, the development of the system as embodied
in the evolution of tax administration policy and development makes it clear that an active tax
1/  When this repot refer. to Subs&amive laws it refers to those laws that establish and defuie taxes, meaning a taxable bas-
income, wealth, sales, value-added--and exempted bas, a tax rate and a taxpayer. In short, the 'what' of the tax
system. Procedural and organizadonal laws, in contrast, refer to differmnt levels of the 'how.'. Tax procedure establish
obligations and rights; organizational laws further defrne procedures as a division of work by functions within the public
sector.



90
ANNEX 9
2 of 40
administration also was a significant factor in the performance of the tax system during the last 12 years.
During the period this report addresses, without doubt, the efforts totally transformed the legal and
operational environment of taxes.
5.      From the perspective of tax administration, important changes in this environment can be
epitomized in the following main trends:
*-    A simplification of substantive tax laws, which included reduction of rates to conform to
international standards;
A redefinition, although incomplete, of tax procedures to provide built-in incentives fbr
and thus to facilitate compliance;
Significant attempts to restructure the internal organization and functions of tax
administration in the interest of improving its performance capabilities;
*.    Significant but still incomplete and somewhat ineffective, development of the insdtudonal
infrastructure of tax administration; and
Development and maintenance of a tax administration top and mid-management team,
based on strong leadership, that emerged from within the organization since 1978.
*     As a consequence of this, actual operation of tax administration has been crippled in the
areas of tax inspections, internal administration and control, and fiscal and economic
modelling to support the tax policy decision making process.
6.     llIs annex now reviews the evolution of the Colombian tax system with special emphasis on
administration. General trends are discussed first ard then each of the three determinants, i.e.,
sbstantive legislation, tax administration policy and capacity development, and operational factors, are
anayzd.



91
ANNEX 9
3 of 40
B. ECONOMIC BASE
7.    For different reasons, the participation of taxes administered by the former DIN on GDP doubled
during the last twelve years as shown in Table 1. Considering the fiscal position, the period 1979-92 has
been subdivided into four episodes (Perry, 1992):
1979-83:     External and fiscal unbalance
1983-85:     Macroeconomic stabilization
1986-90:     Moderate growth, fiscal stability
After 90:     Opening of the economy and additional fiscal adjustment.
8.     Clearly, tax revenue performance played an important role during these periods: it was a major
cause of the crisis of the early 1980s, it benefited from the improved economic performance in 1986 and
from the capital inflows that accompanied the opening of the economy after 1990. It has, without doubt,
been affected by inflation.
9.    The rate of economic growth over the 1980s averaged 3% in the decade, 4% percent in 1986-90
period, and 3.5 percent during the last five years 1988-1992. Sectoral growth patterns have been uneven
as shown in Table 2. From a tax management perspective, the relative changes among sectors are
indicative of a shift from easier-to-tax segments of society to harder-to-tax ones.
10.   Some major economic trends like output, consumption and employment, may be considered
relatively independent of the tax regime. However, some tax bases are not independent; hence, it is not
strictly correct to separate them from the analysis of the legal framework for taxes with which they
interact. For instance, international capital flows may in part be explained by reactions of economic
agents to interest rates differentials across countries, to tax stimuli derived from tax holidays to capital
flight abroad, and-even in the case of Colombia in relation to the U.S. and other developed countries-
policies towards money laundering by narcotraffickers. These movements necessarily transform the tax
base.
11.   Substantial international capital inflows were induced by the differential between domestic and
international interest rate levels. Capital brought under different foreign currency denominations-as
measured by the dynamic behavior of the current account surplus of the external balance-amounted to
4% in 1991 and 1% of 1992.
12.   Inflation levels in Colombia have been moderate, between 20% and 30% in the last decade. This
level is high enough to distort the operation of the tax system at several levels but sufficiently stable to
avoid major damage to tax collection activities. Nonetheless, the Tanzi-Olivera effect has been sufficient
to keep the Government busy adjusting the tax system almost every year.
13.   Despite intended efforts, the country has not been totally successful in reducing inflationary
trends. In fact, to the contrary, in 1990-1992, it had to act drastically in order curb the acceleration of
the inflation rate. This had a negative effect on growth and the tax base which was partially offset by
capital inflow and new tax handles.



92
ANNEEX 9
4 of 4]u
Table 1
COLOMBIA: Cott ction of Tax as Percentag* of GOP
PERIOD              INCOHE             SALES         WITHOLDING         STAMP        TOTAL
,,..,..........  ,...................................................... ................................ ........................................... _._
19J0          35 126.7         18 758.2        13 190.7        2 889.5   69 965.1
1981          38 636.4         25 712.7        16 089.4        3 473.3   83 911.8
1982          37 218.8         33 536.0        16 957.0        4 055.1   91 766.9
1983          72 467.1         41 997.3        27 764.0        4 729.0  146 957.4
1964          81 808.1        62 268.6         39 031.0        9 368.2  192 475.9
1935         100 501.5         94 801.2        61 597.7       11 947.9  268 848.3
1986         129 312.2        126 039.7       933 256.1       23 715.9  372 323.9
1967         163 725.7        173 164.3       158 569.0       15 496.4  510 955.4
1988         192 432.1        226 583.4       204 435.3       17 741.3  641 192.1
1989         297 629.6        306 225.6       289 468.8       24 627.3  917 951.3
1990         433 291.3        410 192.5       389 024.9       31 737.1 1 264 245.8
991          777 731.3        627 403.6       631 250.1       39 357.5 2 075 742.5
1992         740 229.9       887 444.7    1.058 145.8         55 107.1 2 740 927.5
At PERCEWT OF CDP
1960               2.2              1.2             0.8            0.2         4.4
1931               1.9              1.3             0.8            0.2         3.2
1962               1.5              1.3             0.7            0.2         3.7
1963               2.4              1.4             0.9            0.2         4.8
1984               2.1              1.6             1.0            0.2         5.0
1965               2.0              1.9             1.2            0.2         5.4
1986               1.9              1.9             1.4            0.4         5.5
1937               1.9              2.0             1.8            0.2         5.8
1968               1.6              1.9             1.7            0.2         5.5
1989               2.0              2.0             0.9            0.2         6.0
1990               2.1              2.0             0.2            0.2         6.3
1991               3.0              2.4             0.2            0.2         7.9
1992               2.2              3.1             3.1            0.2         8.0
inum.uau_aniuuuauauaaiuuazunuuuuguumuuznuuu



93
ANNEX 9
5 of 4-0
Table 2
COLOMBIA:    Tax Collectfon According to Cmrptlance-Enforcmient Class
PERIOD    LARGE TAXPAYERS      BUSINESS     INDIVIOUALS        TOTAL
COMPL IANCE
19s8         427087.5       150458.8         26967.5     604 513.8
1989         604816.7       195766.9         53051.8     853 665.4
1990         889665.4       235526.6         66644.2   1 191 J36.2
1991        1495703.5       377664.6        122057.3   1 995 425.4
1992        1791815.2       609738.2        139713.3   2 541 336.7
EXFORCEMENT
1988          9 668.0        7 086.2         2 182.2      18 936.4
1989         25 217.1        8 106.9         6 333.5      39 657.8
1990         19 340.0       12 405.9         8 926.2      40 672.1
191          18 711.2       31 789.9        26 458.0      76 959.1
1992         45 102.0       59 159.4        40 176.2     144 43. 1
TOTAL
1988        436 735.5      157 545.0        29 149.7     623 450.2
1989        630 033.8      203 873.8        59 415.6     893 323.2
1990        909 005.4      247 932.5        75 570.4    1 232 508.3
991       1 514 414.7      409 454.5       148 515.3   2 072 364.5
1992      1 836 987.2      668 897.6       179 889.5    2 685 774.8
Caopitance as Percmnt of TotaL
1988             97.8           95.5            92.5          97.0
1989             96.0           96.0            89.3          95.6
1990             97.9           95.0            88.2          96.7
1991             98.8           92.2            82.2          96.3
1992             97.5           91.2            77.7          94.6
Enforcemnnt as Percent of Total
1988              2.2            4.5             7.5           3.0
1989              4.0            4.0            10.7           4.4
1990              2.1            5.0            11.8           3.3
1991              1.2            7.8            17.8           3.7
1992              2.5            8.8            22.3           5.4
# *#uaaauuuuuauauuaumuauasumuaugauuuuumu.au-a---##_u-uU#u-- a-i#--



94
ANNEX 9
6 of 40
C. SUBSTANTIVE LEGISLATIVE DEVELOPMENTS
14.   Colombia tax legislation has evolved smoothly towards the definition of a simpler (few-tax and
broad-based) tax system with improved legal conditions for compliance-in spite of the persistence of
structural ingredients that negatively affect high compliance. A notable exception to this trend was the
introduction of inflation adjustments to the income tax base effective for taxable year 1992 and its
combination with liberal tax rules pertaining to leasing.
15.   During the processing of the last tax reform--Law 6, 1992-Congress insisted to set by law that
no further tax reforms would take place before 1996. This decision gave a clear signal of stability of the
system to the taxpayer. In addition, it implicitly determined that the discretion of the tax administrator,
becomes the crucial ingredient in terms of revenue performance.
16.   Mirroring the legal framework, tax revenues at the outset of the 1980s showed a very high
dependency on foreign trade. The joint weight of customs taxes and surcharges, gains from foreign
exchange transactions and sales tax paid at customs was above 50 percent of total revenue. After a few
years of accumulation of foreign exchange, under which the government simultaneously 'gained' on the
purchase-sale differential in the exchange transactions and on the interest accrued on foreign reserve
deposits, the reduction of foreign reserves reversed the situation and the government started loosing
money in its foreign reserve transactions. This new situation determined the need to reform taxes: VAT
became a more important source of revenue in the mid-1980s. In the late eighties, oil extraction provided
the single dynamic revenue source.  Finally, in the last two years, in addition to an increased
administrative effort, the government had to issue temporary tax handles to offset the reduction of
customs collection and to finance transitional expenditure increases derived from the decentralization
policy and internal security.
17.   The adjustment process during the early 1980s in the fiscal area comprised two objectives: (a)
the attainment of macroeconomically consistent fiscal balances, and (b) the internal restructuring of the
public sector via the strengthening of the subnational levels of government. Notably, the main adjustment
effort did not come from tax revenues. Most of the adjustment was done by the national public
enterprises, in particular the state-owned oil company (ECOPETROL) which revenues increased
substantially due to increases in oil production and exports. The national government was able to capture
and share with other levels a substantial amount of these profits. Although part of the oil revenue is
denominated income tax under the legal arrangements, in the case of ECOPETROL, the nature of the
revenue is that of the exploitation of a government owned natural resource, not of a tax. Therefore, for
the purpose of this analysis, the increased yields from these "tax" revenues should not be part of the
performance measurement of tax administration.
18.    During the last 12 years, the Government was able to achieve a main simplification of substantive
tax laws, namely by:
DI *  broadened tax bases and reduction of tax rates in the income, sales (VAT), and customs
taxes;
elimination of income-tax/shareholder-company double taxation;
*.    reduction in the dispersion of VAT rates from 7% to 2%;



95
AaNNEX 9
7 of 40
elimination of the net wealth tax; and,
*.    improvement of global neutrality by allowing VAT credit on capital goods for income
tax purposes.
19.   However, during the period rates have been reduced (1986) and now will be increased again
(1993-98), thereby sending mixed signals to the private sector. This tax policy instability damages private
resource allocation efficiency.
20.   In contrast to Argentina, the main Colombian tax handles were not specific ad-hoc taxes, but
actual increases of the income, VAT, and other taxes rates.
1. Income Tax.
21.   The evolution of the Colombian Income Tax (CMI) has led to a greatly improved system
operationally. According to McLure and Pardo (1992), Colombia has one of the best income tax systems
of any developing country. Its progress has lagged in the area of tax administration. According to these
authors and the main architects of the reforms, in 1986 the Government decided to adapt the individual
income tax to its administrative reality. However, the reforms of 1992, under considerations of equity,
reversed somewhat the standardization of itemized deductions-were considered by these authors the best
features of the system.
22.   Between 1986 and 1988, a major income tax reform was introduced. Its main characteristics
were the following:
P.    Business income tax rates were unified at 30%.  Reduced from 40%  in the case of
corporations, and increased from 14% in the case of limited partnerships.
*     iDouble taxation was eliminated.
Inflation adjustments were issued.
Individual deductions or credits for health and those based on marital status and number
of dependents were eliminated.
Last, although a transfer and not a tax, State enterprises were defined as income
taxpayers.
23.   This last measure substantially increased "taxes" and the collection role of ECOPETROL, the
state oil company, as a withholder. Gasoline one-step tax withholding for all excises taxed gasoline by
a total effective rate of 43.78%.
24.   While necessary to realistically reflect actual income, inflation adjustments create revenue
downswings. In the case of Colombia, apparently the implications of the adjustments on the cash flows
of companies lead taxpayers to sell and lease back their fixed assets. Given that the useful life for
depreciation purposes is less for the leasor than for the leasee, the tax revenue implications meant a
permanent loss for the fisc.



96
AiNNEX 9
8 ot 4U
25.   The 1992 reform added a 25% surcharge to the income tax. This reform also re-introduced
health and education credits as well as charitable contributions, which added together with housing cannot
exceed 30% of the income tax. Income taxes, including withholding, reached 5.3% of GDP in 1991.
2. Value-Added Tax
26.   In 1983 the sales tax--a single phase manufacturer/importer value-added tax-was extended to
all wholesale and retail distribution, substantially reducing the spread of rates and limiting the scope to
mid- and large size taxpayers.  The reforms excluded from  the value-added chain agricultural,
agroindustrial foodstuffs, and basic items of consumptions. Under these circumstances, 78% of a
universal consumption tax was excluded from VAT. VAT generated 2.6% of GDP in 1991.
27.   In 1990, the basic tax rate was increased from 10% to 12%. New services were included and
the right to tax rebates was eliminated for all taxpayers except for exporters. Also, a system of fiscal
lottery was established as an indirect way to promote the issuance of sales receipts to promote
compliance.
28.   In 1993, tax rates were unified by increasing the basic rate from 12% to 14%. The VAT base
in services was broadened by including all services with a 10 item list of exemptions instead of taxing
a 12 item list and exempting the rest. In addition, as mentioned above, VAT on purchases of capital
goods could be credited to the income tax. Under the new circumstances, 68% of a universal
consumption tax base was excluded from VAT.
3. Customs Taxes
29.   Customs taxes and surcharges were the main tax revenue adjustment mechanism in 1984-86. An
across-the-board customs surcharge of 18% was issued in 1984 to offset the negative trend observed in
the so-called fiscal gains derived from the sale of foreign exchange and the interest income on foreign-
exchange-denominated deposits. The surcharge was phased out between 1989 and 1992.
30.   By the beginning of the 1990s, the policy of import liberalization reduced dramatically the relative
importance of customs taxes and eliminated ex ante licensing. Rates were reduced from 70% to 20%,
with the exception of automobiles. In the end, the system preserved four rates 5%, 10%, 15% and 20%.
In addition, it established preferential treatment for intra-Andean Group trade. As a result, the simple
average customs rate fell from 45% in late 1989, 36% in 1990 to 11.5% in 1992, while the weighted
average fell from 22% in 1989 to 7% by 1993.
31.    Currently customs administration deals with an increased number of free-trade agreements that
makes the administrative function much more complex. The participation of special regimes accounts
for over 30 % of imports. From an administrative standpoint, these trade agreements are equivalent to
tax expenditures; that is, they are complex and hard to administer, given the inherent complexity and the
environment of corruption in which they occur.
4. Other Taxes
32.   In 1991, a tax amnesty to encourage the return of flight capital yielded about 8 percent of income
taxes. This extraordinary tax reduction set the level of the rate at 3% of the returned capital. The tax
amnesty analysis is further developed in paragraphs 37-38.



Table 3
Recent Reform Measures
YEARS       TAXES: SUISTANTIVE LAW                                    TAX PROCEDURE                                           ORGANIZATION
... .. .............. ............................. ..................... ........................................... .. ....... .......... ...... ........ .... .... ......   .......... .  ........  ................. ...........  ...
1983    VAT: Unificstlon of rates and
extension to retailers
1986    Income Tax Reform,                                         -Uitholding of most taxable
-Business Income Tax rates reduced (40 to 30X)              income taxes sibstitutes for compliance.
-9otbte taxatlon eliminated.
-Individual deductions for heslth,
marital status and dependents
eliminated.
198T                                                             Procedural Reform                                       Tax administration reorganizes its
-Establishment of new penalty regime                  division of work by taxpayer categories
-Procedure for sole determfnation
-Eliminatfon of Paz and Salvo
-Legal reform of collection process
-Conptlance incentives
1988    System of integrated adjustments                         Transfer of collection to banks
Sliptlfled tax returns
Elmlination of Annexes
1989    Unification of a Tax legal                               Unification of a Tax legal                               Flrst Administrative Reform
system Into one statute                                  system  Into on  statute                                  - Creation of National tax Institute
- Large Taxpayers
- Development of informetcs Infrastructure
* Planning
199l0                                                            Tex In harmony with trade liberatliatlon
1991    Tax Awnesty for Capital flight                           Structural reform                                        Second Admnistration reform
Peace Tax Handle                                                                                                   -Personnel Administration
-Performnece incentives
-Employee reduction
-New strategies for audit
Redefinition of Tax Inspection function
1992    AdJustment for inflation-Fine Tuning                     Antlevaslon Statute
1993    VAT:Nain Tax rate from  12X to 14X                                                                                Third Administrative Reform
income Tax Surcharge of 25 percent                                                                               Nerge D.I.N and D.A.11                         ID
(Custome an Domestic taune.
under one lt)_
*- _--.-- s ---_ *--- s-s--- - s - ----- * _ "- --*-----t =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItbL'
3UU3UU,uinuUgmussUUu*suasuuu3Uu3U3UUuMiU*3u333~~~u3u3~~UU3U333uuguu3uess  u



98
ANNEX 9
IU0or 4U
D. TAX ADMINISTRATION POLICY AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT
33.   The review of administrative policy and capacity development is delimited as procedural law,
organizational law, and management policy. Table 3 presents an overview of the main legal measures
and management strategies during the period.
1. Procedural Laws
34.   In addition to reshaping substantive laws, an important redefinition of tax procedures took place.
Colombia is a remarkable case in which simplification was the main thrust of the tax system development.
To a large extent, procedures in reality were designed to support the successful conclusion of tax
payments. In the past, procedures were not established to support accurate and timely completion of the
tax process. Additionally, procedural laws were modernized to follow the technological requirements of
computerization.
35.    Nonetheless, in spite of the efforts, the system remains structurally weak due to: (a) the short
statute of limitations on tax administration powers to control tax evasion and (b) the recurrent issuance
of tax amnesties. For this reason, Colombian tax procedures can be still characterized as lenient in
general.
36.   The main achievements during the last decade were:
improved reliability of strategic third parties through the generalization of withholding
to most taxable transactions of income taxes as a mechanism to substitute for taxpayer
compliance (1986);
developed compliance incentives in the definition of a tax process that penalizes delays
in the definition of tax obligations and in actual payment (1987);
prescribed taxpayers and third-party compliance obligations recorded on magnetic media
or other computer adjustable modes (1987);
substantially reduced paperwork inside the tax administration by elimination of (a) tax
returns for large groups of taxpayers, which are effectively captured by the withholding
system and (b) the Tax Clearance Certificate-Paz y Salvo (1987); and,
established explicit criminal penalties for tax fraud (1992).
37.   The generalization of withholding to most transactions was a major structural change that occurred
during the decade. It implied a gross or net taxable base formation, that changed the nature of the actors
from that of a taxpayer to that of a tax-collecting agent-which relation to the fiscal authorities under
Colombian law is much more stringent. Under new rules these taxpayers were obliged to present tax
returns and third party information in magnetic media. In addition, for those cases in which the
transaction resembled a net taxable base, as in the case of salary or interest income, no further declaration
was required of taxpayers. The bulk of tax administration paper-work was reduced substantially.
Finally, the authorities continued using the large taxpayers-also withholding collectors-as the main
administrative handle. Currently 70% of tax collection is the responsibility of large taxpayers.



99
ANNNEX 9
11 of 40
38.    A structural flaw on the statute of limitations makes the Colombia system highly vulnerable to
evasion: the two-year statute of limitations for tax audits is the shortest in the world. In addition, the
statute of limitations for tax authorities to collect taxes in arrears is only five years. Finally, the statute
of limitations for appeals on tax reassessments is also two , with lack of decision implying a result
favorable to the taxpayer, regardless of substance. The two year statute of limitations for audits implicitly
grants a Clearance Certificate--"Paz y Salvo`--to tax evaders too quickly. It also promotes evasion by
taxpayers prone to gamble. This damages the motivation for compliance among those willing to comply.
These short periods are in fact built-in or implicit amnesties that define at the outset an unintentional
equilibrium between evasion and compliance.
39.    Furthermore, after a certain period the explicit amnesty allows taxpayers to cleanse their particular
situation. Amnesties permit taxpayers to declare accumulated wealth not declared as income in the past.
These measures facilitated (legalized) major movements of capital from abroad, providing in time a
sizeable transitory revenue source. The legalization of capital for Colombian tax purposes amounted to
4% of GDP in 1991. However, it is not clear that this increase in the tax base will improve tax revenues
in the future. On the contrary, it may be argued that taxpayers may declare more than they actually
evaded to be able to shelter--cleanse in advance--future evasion by formally demonstrating the 'pre-
existence" of declared wealth. The magnitudes involved are difficult to appraise; however, according to
estimates of DIN, no less than US$830 million was legalized. That amount, given the two year statute
of limitations, may provide some indication of the levels of evasion of this group.
40.   The original idea of an amnesty is the forgiveness of penalties associated with noncompliance in
exchange for taxpayers declaration of their omission or payment of the taxes in arrears. In Colombia,
evasion amnesties actually have partially forgiven the principal amounts of evaded taxes and arrears.
Moreover, Colombian amnesties have forgiven explicit administrative incapacity to deal with tax audits
and/or appeals by promoting automatic settlements based on the reduction of already eroded pending
obligations. This strategy purged the different dockets of the Colombian tax administration in the mid-
1980s. In some sense, this last type of amnesty was granted to the tax administration and the taxpayer,
at the expense of the Treasury.
41.    The Paz y Salvo was an instrument created in the late 1950s to induce tax payment without
proactive intervention of the tax administration.  In essence a Paz y Salvo certificate became a
requirement to engage in many transactions, for example, the incorporation of a business, the sale of real
property and vehicles, the provision of goods to the public sector, the departure from Colombia, to name
only a few. Not to have a Paz y Salvo was considered "civil death" according to Colombian tax lawyers.
The problem with the Paz y Salvo system was that tax administration was unable to support its operation,
since it never has had an updated current account. Under these conditions, the system became a
nightmare for both the taxpayers and the administration. In the end, it became one of the most important
foci of corruption.
2. Organizational Laws
42.    Conscious of the deep interrelationship between processes and administrative functions, during
the last five years tax managers restructured the internal organization and functions of the tax
administration.  This has been a slow, incremental process during which a new concept of tax
administration emerged:
*     the division in 1987 of the Ministry of Finance computer center into smaller units at the



100
A.NN .EX 9
12 of 40
directorship level;
the reorganization of taxpayer services by use of the banking system in 1988;
the division of work in the main four tax administrations by taxpayer category in 1987;
the definition of administrative autonomy, which made DIN equivalent to a decentralized
agency in 1992;
the redefinition of regional decentralization in 1991;
the creation of internal control in 1991;
a comprehensive tax administration reform that reduced personnel from 6,100 to 4,000
in 1992; and
the integration of the administration of customs and domestic taxes under a single
administrative unit in 1993.
43.   Split of the Ministry 's Central Computer Service. The division in 1987 of the Ministry of Finance
Information and Systems Center-CIS- into smaller units at the directorship level, i.e., Taxes, Customs,
Budget, Public Debt and Treasury, made it evident that the single major client of the system was DIN.
At the time the authorities believed that the major problem of DIN was the lack of a hierarchical
subordination of the chief of the computer center to the DIN director, and that ascribing him to DIN
would solve the informatics problem. The organizational approach did not focus on the substance of the
informatics problem and in time this proved to be insufficient.
44.    Universal Collection by Banks. The second major organizational change was the transfer of all
tax collection to banks as well as the initial data capture of tax declarations. This measure greatly
increased the number of service points to taxpayers, expedited the availability of data in magnetic media,
and made available the internal control technology of the banks to protect the funds collected.
45.   Division of Tax Administration by Taxpayers Category. Usually when the number of taxpayers
belonging to a jurisdiction grows beyond a certain point, the jurisdiction is split using a geographical
criteria. This is, for instance, the case in Spain and Mexico. In Colombia, the approach was the division
of work in the main tax administrations by taxpayer categories: large taxpayers, incorporated business
and individuals.  This measure allowed tax administration to discriminate taxpayers by relative
importance.
46.   Redefinition of Regional Decentralization 1991. Following the computerization strategy, tax
administration was organized in five regional offices that were supposed to concentrate the flow of
information previously sent to Bogota. These regional offices became a supervisory level deconcentrating
substantially the intervention of the central level of DIN on operations. This move partially complies with
the procedural design mandate that centers all operational decisions at the operational office levels.
47.    Creation of Internal Control in 1991. After the operation of external controls exercised by the
Contralorfa General de la Repdblica, DIN decided to implement internal control. A special unit was
established for this purpose. DIN pioneered in identifying the internal control issue, which became



101
ANNEX 9
13 of 40
48.   Definition of Administrative Autonomy which made the DIN the Equivalent to a Decentralized
Agency. In 1992, DIN attained administrative autonomy, an organizational design that seems to be the
dream of Latin American tax directors. As a decentralized agency, DIN it acquired the legal capacity
to enter into contracts and appoint personnel, to manage earmarked revenues and patrimony, and to define
salary scales outside the Ministry's scheme. This strategy, somewhat similar to the earlier segregation
of computer services in 1988, is indicative of the belief that organizational changes alone are capable of
solving problems.
49.    Comprehensive Tax Administration Reform. In 1992 a second major intervention on the legal
definition of tax administration reduced personnel from 6500 to 4000. This measure split DIN into two
areas. DIN was redefined DIAN (to include the Customs Administration-see next paragraph)) with
substantially less personnel. A second one was the creation of the General Directorate of Fiscal Support,
a new directorate within the Ministry of Finance to support the development of local finances.
50.   Integration of the Administration of Customs and Domestic Taxes. The most recent organizational
move of the Colombian Government was to fuse into a single administrative unit DIN and DNA, the main
tax collection agencies. This strategy follows a pattern on the continent perhaps because of the increasing
role of VAT at customs and the decreasing role of customs-denominated taxes and excises. The
importance of controlling the quality of the initial value of imported goods into the VAT chain should
not be underestimated.  If goods are undervalued, there is an enormous incentive to keep them
undervalued once they are imported. The incentive may be strong enough to promote a black chain not
only for VAT but also for the income tax. Experience with segregated customs authorities reveals
undervaluation as the main customs administration problem.
51.   In addition, the combination of the two administrations provides a number of synergies. For
instance, the level of cost associated with imports can be included as a built-in feature in the application
to control evasion for income tax purposes.
3. Managernent Policy
52.   In addition to these major policy framework developments, the Colombian tax administration has
been involved in fundamental internal reorganization since the late 1970s. Unfortunately, however, the
tax administration project was never considered as a complete unit covering all aspects of tax
administration. Major changes may be characterized as follows:
Significant but incomplete and costly development of its informatics infrastructure.
Significant but still incomplete development of its institutional approach to infrastructure
for the development of human resources.
53.   Significant but Incomplete and  Costly Development of its Informatics infrastruc*'re.
Computerization of tax operations has remained an unsolved problem for over a decade. Currently the
computerization process is divided into two: before and after 1988, referred to by the Colombia
inrormatics team as the old and new world, respectively.
54.   The old world computer strategy included collection and tax inspection applications. In the area
of collection the system comprised TRADECC-Transcripci6n de Declaraciones-and SAC-Sistema de
Atenci6n al Contribuyente. TRADECC, a batch system, recorded tax declarations for the sole purpose



102
ANNEX 9
14 of 40
of taxpayer account of private transactions. SAC integrated TRADECC as the generator of tax debits
and the registration of payments on line. Manual payments done at banks and tax administrations without
teleprocessing facilities were recorded slowly.
55.   This system gravitated substantially--and unsuccessfully-around the issuance of Paz y Salvo
certificates. The dynamics of these certificates required that the system had to work with a special
group-Grupo de Inclusion de Pagos, GIP--whose emergent function was to update and/or override the
system given the lack of updating and a high level of inconsistency.
56.   These records were kept parallel to the manual registration of the same documents for the purpose
of government aggregate accounting. Under these conditions, the accounting at the taxpayer level
diverged from that at the aggregate levels. This created an environment without control which was
manifest by the number of fictitious payments entered into the system-particularly by staff from the
computer center!
57.   The application to support tax audits--PAED, Programa de Auditorfa y Estadfsticas de la
Declaraci6n-was based on the transcription of all lines of the income tax return. The aim of the program
was to identify potential evaders based on patterns in individual returns over time and based on reasonable
expectations of given tax profiles.
58.   Finally, during the old world years SACUATO was developed. SACUATO was a system to
administratively follow the internal process of transformation of tax returns throughout the administration.
59.   The new world computer strategy developed SIT-Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Tributaria.
SIT constitutes a conceptual platform that started implementation since 1988. Its initial objective was to
cover completely all software needs of tax administration. This objective was not totally achieved
although it was mentioned spite of remaining mentioned in all successive programmatic documents issued
by the informatics unit. Consequently, advancement in the definition and implementation of the computer
applications was uneven and did not follow the implicit demands of the developments of DIN in its legal
and organizational design over the last 4 years. Developments were limited to computerize one function
only: the computerization of receiving and registering tax returns and their corresponding payments.
60.   The computer application to manage taxpayers' current account-SIT-is based on a mainframe
computer that collects the data captured by the banks, cross checks delivery of funds to the Central Bank-
Banco de la Reptiblica-, and keeps individual and global accounts. In comparison to the recently
implemented Argentine collection management system, the Colombian one is by design substantially
slower and not as secure. Tax administrators are expected to wait for the completion of a cumbersome
universal check of the tapes or discs, initially processed by the banks, containing the tax returns and
payment record that payers submit to the banks. However, in contrast to the Argentine system, taxpayers
in Colombia have a wide service availability since they can pay at any bank in the country once they have
submitted the return in a bank of the tax administration to which they are affiliated based on place of
residence or registration in the case of VAT. Moreover, they can split their payments among banks at
their convenience.
61.   The processing cycle of SIT data initially managed by the banks makes the information first
available on average (a) four months after the taxpayers transaction for collection purposes and (b) 18
months for tax inspection purposes. This means that data processing barely leaves six months of the two
years allowed to the tax administration to act on evasion based on processed information from tax returns.



103
ANKN EX 9
15 of 40
This computer design feature is simply unacceptable from the standpoint of the definition of an inspection
plan.
62.    Although it is considered a current account, in reality SIT does not include, as part of its
operational concepts (a) tax debits originating on reassessments by tax inspections or other administrative
interventions (0.1 % of the transactions and 5 % of collectible taxes); (b) adjustments to real transactions
(bounced checks, accounting adjustments based on the crosscheck of accounts statements and taxpayer
accounting, the so-called Plan 0); and (c) corrections of taxpayers that reduce their tax obligation (1%
of transactions-there is no data for this item). It also excludes from the arrears collection and tax
auditing process all those returns found with arithmetic error. This means that roughly 10% of the
universe of taxpayers never enters the system. 2
63.    Under these circumstances, the current account is not complete and probably lacks the most
important elements in terms of enforcement of additional collection. The argument for not having part
(a) of the data integrated into the system was the cost of developing an application exclusively for that
purpose. This application, however, was exactly the same as the banks developed to capture tax
declarations and which DIN can obtain, probably at no cost. Items (b) and (c) were simply not
contemplated in the design of the system. These operational limitations substantially curbed the
possibility of developing computer applications in taxpayers services and enforcement areas.
64.    The design of the tax returns due to simplification efforts led to forms that resemble payment
receipts more than tax declarations. In most countries, the sworn tax return is the basic instrument of
fiscalization and tax analysis objectives. This is not the case in Colombia precisely because the problems
of fiscalization and tax analysis were not parameters in the definition of the system and its forms.
Currently, the tax forms neither allow the tax authorities objective targets for tax inspections nor the
Ministry of Flnance authorities to monitor overall performance of the tax system. This is the main
problem to be addressed by this part of the project.
65.    As a result, the main function of tax administration, namely tax evasion control, was put aside
for almost a full decade. While between 1980-85 it was a deliberate strategy due to the lack of trust by
DIN by its auditors, in the new world it was an implicit definition of the informatics concept. In the
initial conception of the new world, and well into the 1980, the defaults of the system made it almost
impossible to base taxpayers audits on informatics. The only lapse of the 1980s was between 1986 and
1988, during the transition from the old to the new world. This effort was based on FIVACO, a local
application development in the tax administration of Bogota, geared to control VAT paid by commerce.
While the program appeared to be somewhat successful, DIN did not attempt to evaluate its overall
effectiveness.
66.    In addition to this limited scope, DIN's operations were basically limited by informatics
definitions, which excluded some important users of the system - notably, the taxpayers and the operators
in charge of its delivery to them.
2/  If viewed in terms of documents, the current account of taxpayers should smoothly integrto 14 diffeent types of
documents. The design of the system currently processes only four. tax declarations, payment receipts, taxpaye
amendments to original returns, and tax rebates and compentions. The other 10 items that complete a taxpayer uirent
account and constitute 75 % of tax administration actions are not computerized (returned checks, reassements, resolution
of administrative appeals, other decisions, Article 589 taxpayen corretions tht  duce tax obligations, payment
agreements, arithmetic conwetions, determination of taxes for non-filers, two levels of jun dictional decisions).



104
ANNEX 9
16 of 40
67.   It was not until 1991 that innovative approaches appeared. The appointment of new top managers
in critical areas, with broader concern for fiscalization, generated a demand driven process that forced
a redefinition of the informatics menu for DIN by including computer support for tax inspections. This
implied that tax inspection received some attention by the development of computer routines to crosscheck
external data, with minor routines to crosscheck the ratio of VAT-on-purchases/VAT-on-sales. These
developments were either supported by the routines stemming from the captured returns or by parallel
efforts like the processing of exogenous information. The entire process could not continue because of
the lack of information given the limited content on tax returns forms and the poor quality of external
information requested from strategic taxpayers. In contrast to the continous support of the tax declaration
and payment process, support to fiscalization was intermittent.
68.   The definition of a strategy to deal with evasion is a complex process since in the absence of a
strategy and a structured administrative process, tax managers and auditors can do almost any. With 10
years of suspension of audit activities, DIN lost perspective on how to tackle the problem. Initial
developments were geared to massive visitation of taxpayers based on problems of formalities and fragile
clues of fraud.
69.    Unfortunately, as has occurred in many other countries and organizations in similar situations,
a parallel and unstructured process of procurement of microcomputers took place to support those
operations not covered by SIT 1 in the most important regional offices. Each regional office with the
availability of personal computers began "playing' with the same tax returns that were awaiting validation
and processing by the mainframe to produce a regional-specific audit program supported by
microcomputers.
70.   In the late 1990s, the Informatics Unit of DIN started developing MICROSrT, an application that
was supposed to deal with the fiscalization problem at the regional level during the preparation phase of
SIT 2. After its initial start in Bogota as a pilot project within the large taxpayers unit in 1991, its
replication was abandoned due to a change of strategy by DIN which devoted all its energies to Plan 0,
a crash program to reduce tax arrears. Although MICROSIT took some features from ARCO in Chile,
apparently ARCOE, the tailor-made version of ARCO for Ecuador, was a considerably more
comprehensive and automated concept than MICROSIT.
71.   To a ue  extent this whole process alone could substantially explain the persistence of low
compliance in Colombia. If for different reasons, the most crucial function is not supported, one can not
expect results. To a large extent, given the structural vulnerability derived from the statute of limitations
and the always-perceived high levels of evasion, the definition of the computerization of the system
should have gravitated around the support of fiscalization related functions-even at the expense of
refinements to the collection process. Instead, the system values its collection accounting, which statute
of limitations iZfive years. This implies a built-in tolerance of evasion
72.    Nonetheless, the expenditures associated with computer management were very high. Inadequate
resource allocation decisions have maintained substantial rental payment for obsolete equipment that have
delayed technological change. Total DIN expenditure, which does not include computerization costs
incurred by banks, was US$17 million between 1988 and 1992. Of this total, actual investment for
software development was less than 10%. It is clear that with less than that, other countries-for instance,
Chile-has done much more.
73.    Evolution of the New World. It was not until 1990 that DIN took a more active role and began



105
ANNEX 9
17 of 40
to demand computerized support for audits, and in other areas as well. These demands were parallel to
the initiation of the revision of SIT, a project designated SIT 2.
74.   SIT 2 constitutes the refinement of the original SIT in terms of improvement of the main negative
features described above.
*.    It will automatically process all--i.e., the remaining 10-concepts that define a current
account.
*     It will change its operational concept of validation from ex ant to ex post, allowing tax
administrators availability of the information as a whole within a month based directly
on the original processing of data by the banks.
It will decentralize the operations of computers in a way close to the functional director
and the operator of the system. This will allow the development of tax inspections
methodologies in a fashion close to the computer.
75.    From a broad perspective, the current conceptualization of SIT 2 boils down to more of the same-
-collection management-but processed in a more modern way.  Open architecture equipment is
contemplated in the strategic plan for informatics development in the 1993-95 period, under which SIT
is being developed. Current technology indicates that there will be a gradual reduction-and in some
cases elimination-of central ADP equipment (mainframe) which now control all processes. Not only are
there technical and operational reasons behind this strategy, but also cost considerations, which are critical
in a downsizing operation.
76.   The inertia of SIT I and the common practice of automatically renewing the contract of the
equipment supplier were a hurdle to making strategic adjustments in the definition of equipment and
operational protocols. Despite the request of the DIN informatics team to create the conditions to move
away from the mainframe-based hardware architecture, the Ministry's decision in 1990 was to maintain
it. It was not until 1992 that the decision to go forward with the new hardware technology was taken.
This allocation of resources biased in favor of mainframe computers made the transition from SIT 1 to
SIT 2 very slow. However, it would be possible to redesign a global informatics architecture to look for
a real distributed performance that would use different equipment to facilitate significant downsizing.
77.   The situation described above should be carefully reviewed by the tax authorities. As currently
defined, the consolidation of a1l tax returns and payment slips into one form per tax may be the root of
most administrative problems. This consolidation mixes a continous process-mass produced collection-
with a discrete one-targeted audits. This means in the end that the continuous process crowds out the
discrete one. Crowding out has occurred by: (a) forcing oversimplification of tax forms to adjust for the
velocity requirements of the collection cycle; (b) giving priority to the computerization cycle; and (c)
priority attention by the highly qualified staff at the computer center. In spite of these prerogratives,
collection management limps along precisely because of the weight of the processing requirements of
audits.
78.   If the returns were not processed by the banks, as in Chile, tax administrators would have its
payments registered and money the day following the transaction, and could actually improve the
information requirements on the tax returns for fiscalization and economic analysis purposes.
79.    However, the transfer of collection operations to the banks was a sound decision at the time it



106
AiNNEX 9
18 of 40
was taken due to the enormous revenue losses derived from uncontrolled collection in the tax
administration offices as well as the absolute lack of control by the banks. Banks provided not only data
capture but also (a) internal control capacity, which without doubt was superior to that of the tax
administration, (b) an expanded network of services well received by the taxpayer community. The
implicit cost of this package has been estimated at Col.$30 billion (US$41 million) per year.
80.   While to incur this cost may have been the correct decision under the conditions existant in 1987,
it may not be justifiable now. First, the system maintains a technology with high compliance costs, which
could be reduced by the implemetation of more modern techniques like electronic filing. Second, many
banks are contracting out the capture of returns, and are coming to a position by which the advantages
of their internal control may be lost. Third, there is a "Tanzi effect' in the agreed lags for depositing
Treasury monies. Fourth, at the time banks have to hand over the money to the Treasury, there is a
fierce battle for liquidity that distorts interest rates.
81.   For the above reasons, some consideration should be given to reduce the dependency and costs
of collection in the banking system. One approach is to define a way to file returns that does not
necessarily require data capture by banks--even though the process maintains the entry of documents in
the banks. This will assure the necessary leverage to renegotiate the number of days the banks keep the
money that has been collected.
82.   Significant but still incomplete development of infrastructure for the development of human
resources. The Government of Colombia also supported tax administration managers in the definition
and implementation of a human resource policy that substantially changed the legal and operational
environment for human resource management. Motivation via salary leveling and the establishment of
performance measurement as the methodology for following-up and remunerating productivity-Fondo
de Gestidn-in 1991 were key ingredients to improve DIN's operations.
83.   A special civil service career for tax administration staff was created in 1989. This career
instituted a process of entry based on successful training as a requirement for entry, which in turn defines
entry to the career. Furthermore, subsequent promotions are strictly based on competitive criteria. The
career also contemplates the possibility of appointing as chiefs career civil servants, a new concept of
pool of staff without formal ascription to organizational areas.
84.   The composition of personnel was dramatically changed by the elimination of support staff in
favor of technical staff. Consequently, training was redefined to emphasize technical areas-specialized
in arrears collection and tax audits-which was in turn decentralized to the regions. To do this, distance
learning modules were developed.
85.   Finally, as this reform could not be implemented with the same staff, DIN ousted 90% of its tax
auditors, collection staff, including chief executive officers.
86.    However, after a strong start that linked training and operations, the National Tax School changed
focus and directed itself to the solution of formal personnel career needs outside the scope of a long-term
substantive program of human resource development.
87.   The definition of the new operational framework for the tax system also included performance
measurement as a major management element. Colombia is one of the few cases in Latin America in
which detailed performance evaluation takes place. This system is strongly supported by the incentives



IC7
ANNEX 9
TFTof 4u
to productivity mentioned above.
88.   Without doubt, this is a well conceived personnel management scheme that requires important
computer support.



108
ANNEX 9
20 of 40
E. OPERATION AND PRACTICE OF TAX ADMINISTRATION
89.   This section reviews actual operations of tax administration based on visits and interviews with
regional tax administrators. To a large extent operations should follow the design and institutional
infrastructure of the system described above. Therefore, a level of evasion should occur that corresponds
to the procedural rules, especially to statute-of-limitations and amnesties patterns. Also, institutional
development in software applications biased to capture tax payments and returns should also be part of
that reality.
90.    However, the reality of the system is richer than what it is designed and expected. One particular
feature of the operation of the Colombian tax administration has been leadership and political support to
its operations. To a large extent, leadership has been a substitute for long-term developments of the
required institutional-computerized-infrastructure.  In what follows operations of tax audits, tax
collection and internal administration and control are reviewed on the basis of results.
91.    Government officials have not interferred with political criteria in the decisions and operations
of tax directors, as is the case in many other Latin American countries. According to DGI, staff
Ministers of Finance have resisted substantially political pressures to appoint staff, particularly in the
regional offices. Moreover, government officials have been supportive of change and innovation during
the last 10 years. In fact, the government maintained the same tax administration management team that
emerged from within the organization in 1978 until early 1993. Not only has this team dealt with the
day-to-day management of the tax system but it was also the major architect of its structural definition.
The curious aspect of the approach is that strong leadership was substituted for technological
development, which ultimately became counterproductive and certainly insufficient.
1. Tax Audits
92.    Currently, the operation of tax administration tolerates estimated levels of tax evasion-including
arrears-of approximately 35 percent of the value-added tax. IMF-DIN estimates for the income tax were
on about 30 percent in 1988 and have decreased to 26 percent in 1992.' This reflects the absence until
1990 of an administrative strategy to deal with evasion, which was equivalent of promoting it. The
decreasing recent trend of the income tax evasion data may reflect the efforts of DIN management to
quickly resolve problems and avoid the statute of limitations as well as to overcome their informatics
limitations.
93.   Informat!cs support to the fiscalization of taxpayers consists of reporting in batch) indicators
about taxpayers worked out of the limited information derived from the tax returns forms and the
processing of external information. This occurs on shared time of the same computer used to process
the information sent by the banks. Given the continuous and mass-production nature of the collection
process, the programs associated with auditing are not a priority.
94.    The validation process of tax returns-actual capture from a DIN standpoint-leaves as a third
priority fiscalization data. This means that the reports are produced too late to meet the legal constraints.
3/       cThe eatimacas derive from application of macroeconomic methods to detomnin tax evasion.



109
AiNNEX 9
21 of 40
The data checks by banks are divided into several steps. The first step validates only payments and
identification of the taxpayer, i.e., collection data. It takes three months to complete and absorbs most
of the attention of the computer center staff. The other steps have remained contingent on the completion
of the first one, which, given the legal cycle of returns, has become a never-ending process. The other
validation processes on matters related to tax inspections and performance control are by definition
impossible to complete on time. What is completed has a high (40 percent) level of inconsistency.
95.    Programming of audits derive both from the above processing routines and from collection needs.
Audits are defined by needs of the collection process rather than by structured planning to target evaders.
This occurs because tax rebates imply by definition an internal job order from collection to fiscalization.
Such audits were a large proportions of all audits, close to 50% according to DIN managers in 1989.
This was deliberately reduced when more refined audit programs were issued and enforced. The implicit
allocation of scarce audit resources is clearly in the wrong direction based using this approach.
Moreover, this is a case where the development and management of an institutional memory-i.e., the
experience of tax administration with taxpayers claiming rebates-may have a high payoff.
96.   In its recent practice, the fiscalization process has been skewed toward average and small
taxpayers rather than big ones. This is so for two reasons according to DIN executives. First, the fact
that large taxpayers are a group closely monitored by the banks-informatics link may make them better
taxpayers. Second, the lack of informatics and specialized human resources to deal with these taxpayers
made it practically impossible to effectively determine their evasion.
97.   In spite of these adverse informatics circumstances, tax inspections defined a methodology to
initiate a dialogue with taxpayers based on sector standards calculated with the support of the central
computer to induce the taxpayer to correct his/her tax return. Rather than preparing the individualized
proof of evasion through cross-checks, DIN started a bargaining process with taxpayers based on sectoral
evidence to provoke a "voluntary" correction. Initially used on selected taxpayers, the method has been
extended to the promotion of sectoral dialog and bargaining, under which average compliance of a group
of taxpayers improves after its application.
98.    Without doubt this method is extremely powerful and efficient as a short-run approach. It
requires however improved informatics support, as taxpayers will soon realize that DIAN is gambling
with average records that lack objective "proof" and that the proof is not easy to produce.
99.    Consistent with the above data, performance accounting of DIAN shows an increasing share of
collection due to enforcement than that due to compliance (see table 3). The problem is that it is easier
to measure aggregate evasion gaps, than to individualize, locate and demonstrate them. This requires a
greater amount of human and informatics resources than currently envisaged for the evasion control
function in Colombia. It may further require an increase in the statute of limitations to increase the risk
to evaders.
2. Tax Collection
100.  The approach to concentrate collection on a small strategic group of taxpayers has led the system
to rely on around 2000 taxpayers which represent between 65 and 75 percent of VAT and income tax
collection. Interestingly enough the number of large taxpayers under this control system has continuously
decreased between 1988 and 1992, contradicting reasonable economic trends.



110
ANNEX 9
22 of 40
101.  In spite of the computer staff bias to complete collection routines, the collection system is not
satisfactory on technical grounds. Given the present configuration, the capacity of the mainframe to
respond at peak hours substantially increases the response time to levels that make it impractical to deal
with it. The mission visited some local administration offices and found that at the peak of taxpayer
presence (II a.m.) the mainframe was turned off.
3. Internal Administration
102.  In addition to the area of tax inspection, the lack of effective support in the area of informatics,
has crippled internal administration and control. The combined efficiency of financial, procurement,
personnel and maintenance of goods sets a limit to operational efficiency of any organization. It would
not be worth the effort to improve the operations of tax administration without the concomitant
development of administrative areas. While much has been accomplished at the legal and operational
infrastructure levels much more remains to be done.



111
ANNEX 9
23 of 40
F. THE TAX ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
103.   The project is aimed at eliminating a vicious cycle of low  performance followed by an
unsustainable tax reform by closing administrative loopholes and providing sustainability to the tax
system. The Colombian legal framework has been adjusted periodically to obtain more revenue,
generally by increasing tax rates based on inadequate performance.' Increased rates constitute a larger
burden for tax assessment, promote evasion, and hence creates a hard-to-administer tax system.
104.   The project will attempt to put together a self-contained tax administration and its interfaces with
the public finance management system. The current definition of the Colombian tax system constitute a
feasible legal environment for administrative purposes, with the exception of:
*.     the reduced periods of the different statutes of limitations-i.e., two years for control of
evasion and deciding appeals and five years to collect taxes in arrears,
*.     the high propensity to issue tax amnesties, and
*-     a likely major loophole that derived from the combination of the new inflation adjustment
rules and the tax treatment for leasing.
These exceptions reinforce each other and together precipitate a negative attitude toward compliance.
105.   This situation provides the concept for a project that would address the development of
computerization and human resources without necessarily requiring immediate legal changes.' One broad
performance indicator of the project can be the reduction of tax rates once improved performance is
achieved.
106.   Due to its comprehensiveness, the project contemplates the creation of a management/informatics
interdisciplinary group that will appraise the technical specifications of the system reconciling managerial,
operational and informatics perspectives.
107.   The scope of the system should be defined with the consensus of the users, in particular with
those directly responsible for operating the respective application.  This process was initiated by the
preparatory work of the project. As currently defined, the project contemplates requests of the system
operators at several levels. As such, the scope of the project is well beyond the original concept of
version SIT 2. In addition, the concept of the project also incorporates successful experiences in other
countries, in particular the Audit School developed by the Internal Revenue Service (SU) in Chile.
4/  In Colombia, as shown by the rview above, the authorities have been also trying to imprvo the opetional conditiam
defuned in the tax laws.
5/  It is highly desimble to increase as soon as possible the statute of limitations for audits, or to fud a fomrua that woul
allow the administration to trck back evasion when evidence gathered by auditon sugest cotino evaion. Mezico,
for intance, established an audit procedure that forbids the auditor to open previous years if he doe notf fant   evasim
in the curent year. If, on the contruy, evaion is found, the auditor is legally empowered to vedfy fiv. yeauu ba.
This scheme grants an amnesty to those taxpayers that decide not to cheat anymore on their ta, poviding a bat
allocation of audit resources. In addition it is cmcial to study the development of avoidance schem  derived fan
unclear--or abused--inflation adjustment rule. in the cae of leasing.



112
ANNEX 9
74 oTU
108.  The common characteristics of the informatics concept to be implemented in the a Colombian Tax
administration are the following:
*     it should first solve the operational problem of the transaction being computerized as well
as contribute to the development of a managerial perspective on the problem itself;
*     a transaction should feed once-and-for-all the pertinent data base;
*     it should define the common multipurpose accounting coding-financial, economic and
operational-for later data processing;
*     it should define all forms (screens) to capture the data;
*     it should define the procedures for data capture and validation;
*     it should define access securities;
*     it should define a baseline report plan, by organizational levels, based on the operational
or managerial needs of the common users; and
*     it should define options to further manipulate the baseline report and the data in general.
109.  The project will introduce computerization to most operations of tax administration
interconnecting them for fluidity of the tax process. In addition, the project will define the interface
output/links with the major financial management integrator system. This approach should bring about:
A definitive correction of the major operational imbalance derived from the bias of
software development and equipment usage that favors collection management at the
expense of the development of computer-supported taxpayer compliance, evasion control
schemes, and internal administration and control.
*     An improvement in the scope and technical features of the current computerized support
to collection.
On-line support to major economic/fiscal decision-making processes requiring accurate
and opportune data about different perspectives on taxes.
110.  Emphasis will change from excessive regard to the quality of the data to give a chance to the
opportunity for information. The mechanisms of validation current today ought to be revised in the light
of the adoption of more effective techniques of declaration and capture of the relevant taxpayers, and
more selective sampling and validation of the available universe of taxpayers.
111. In this way, the potential of the legal mandate will probably be more closely achieved. Adequate
tools to perform tax administration tasks, if properly used, necessarily will improve tax collection derived
from better targeted and computerized direct interventions, and better compliance of the rest of the
taxpayers due to the spillover effects of audits. It is expected that the project will generate an exogenous
0.75% of GDP during the first year of implementation and at least 0.5% of GDP per year during the
following five years of implementatation, improving the current level of performance of the DIN under



113
ANNEX 9
W5of T4u
very adverse computational environment. It must be understood that as more taxpayers come into the
net of compliance control, the remaining evasion will be harder to track and prove. This is the challenge
of the project.
112.  In addition, long-term horizontal equity will be developed, as the system will enable DIAN to
deal with the evasion of mid-size and small taxpayers. This strategy is fundamental to maintaining high
morale in the system as a whole.
113.  Due to its initially limited scope and definition, the concept of SIT 2 was revised as follows:
*.    It will be viewed in three interdependent administrative levels: Production or operations,
administrative support and control (See Diagram 1). This levels will be divided in
subsystems that closely follow the organizational division of work of DIAN.
Production or operations concentrates on two operational areas of tax administration: tax
compliance and tax enforcement which will be supported by the development and
implementation of five interrelated but autonomous computer applications.
The administrative level complements operational subsystems by providing computerized
support to functions related with the necessary financial, human resource and physical
and equipment facilities.
The control level constitutes one of the links or interfaces with the major integrated
financial system.   The application will provide feedback organized according to
hierarchies of DIAN and beyond DIAN at the Ministry level. The feedback will be a
structured system for performance measurement.  DIAN will be a pilot unit for
implementation of internal and operations control-control de gestd6n.
In addition to the managerial support provided by the control level, managerlalfiucdons
will be supported by baseline reports from operations regarding the behavior of major
tax parameters. Models for identification of major trends and forecasting of tax revenue,
models to understand changing behavior in colection trends and models about tax
structure will be developed as a managerial tool benefitting from the orderly capture of
operational data.
114.  The project contemplates an action plan that includes a revised vision of the system as a whole
and revised cost under a relatively accelerated implementation program. This plan contemplates
immediate implementation in strategic areas that do not necessarily have to wait until the system is
completed. In addition, it includes the development of DIAN's capacity to follow developments of new
technologies to quickly implement hardware adjustments that improve productivity.
1. Subsystem of Production or Operations
115.  This subsystem comprises software developments and implementation for the enhancement of
compliance and the development of tax enforcement.
a.                           Enhancement of Tax Compliance



114
ANNEX 9
116.  Enhancement of compliance is a subsystem that would focus on providing welfare to the taxpayer.
It will include the identification and, when possible, computerization of ways to support compliance either
by mass media, specialized media or by individually supportive means.
117.  Tax compliance comprises SAT--Sistema de Atencion Tributaria-a set of applications designed
to reduce compliance costs and facilitate voluntary compliance and SOA-Sistema de Operacidn Aduanera-
-the actual nationalization process."
118. SAT comprises a set of applications designed to reduce compliance cost to the taxpayer community.
This involves
*-    development of computerized support for taxpayers' individual consultation,
*.    establishment of alternatives to file tax returns based on taxpayers convenience,
*.    measurement of taxpayers attitudes
P.    systematic identification of taxpayers problems
5.    measurement of taxpayers' compliance cost
*,    development of mass media guidance to improve compliance conditions
PI    analysis of the demands and implications of tax forms
b.                           Development of Tax Enforcement.
119.  Tax enforcement would include collection of tax arrears, fiscalization process and the
development of strategic computerized support to enhance the quality of operations and to improve
accountability. Performance will be measured by the individual results of each targeted collection task
or audit and by the indirect effects perceived in the compliance of selected control taxpayers.
120.  The redefinition of the current SIT 1 centralized approach to manage individual taxpayers is a
prerequisite to improve quality and opportunity of the information. The key performance indicator will
be the reduction of the waiting periods to finally put the data in the computer for further usage by the
main tax functions.
121.  Tax enforcement comprises:
SIR-Sistema Integrado de Recaudacidn-the compliance collection software.
SIF-Sistema Integrado de Fiscalizacidn-the tax inspection software.
SIC-Sistema Integrado de Cobranzas-the enforcement collection software.
I  Thc computer application to suport these proceues will be developed under the funncial support of a Trde Lan.



115
ANNEX 9
7L7ot-4U
122.  The applications to be developed to enhance collection of tax arrears are based on the outstanding
balances reported by the current account. Following the legal definitions of the process, the applications
will initially deal in a short persuasive cycle to remind taxpayers in arrears of their overdue obligations
by sending them letters automatically produced by the computer followed by telephone calls from revenue
agents. For the unsuccessful cases, the application will manage the more costly coercive cycle
contemplated in the law. This cycle comprises the legal seizure of property, its disposition in public
auction and finally payment of the taxes in arrears. It may involve complex situations determined by
bankrupcy or "concordato"-equivalent to Chapter 11 situations in the US. The indicator of success will
be the absolute reduction of the proportion of taxes in arrears. Intermediate indicators will be the
reduction in the time required to have a balance in arrears available for the tax collection agent and the
increase in collection by persuasive means.
123.  In contrast, the audit function is a much more complex development that comprises the definition
of a strategy to collectively deal with all forms and expressions of tax evasion. The model develops the
the concept of "shadow returns." These are critical to monitor, in that they are defined as the difference
between what might be expected from a given taxpayer and what appears on tax returns actually filed.
The applications to be developed to enhance enforcement through fiscalization are the following:
*0.   Measurement of Evasion: macro and sectoral;
Information Tree of the Economy: computerized identification of interrelated economic
agents;
Selection: computerized identification of potential evaders;
Cross-check: preparation of proofs/presumptions of evasion;
International cross-check: Preparation of proofs/presumptions of international evasion;
p.    Sectorial Reference: sectorial financial simulations
*     Selection/Internal Monitoring Management: computerized selection of auditors for audit
work;
*     Audit Operation: expert system for field work:
*.    Review of Impact: followup of taxpayer behavior
*     Accountability: followup of tax staff behavior
2. Subsystem of Internal Administration.
124. The performance of the fundamental operations of a tax administration greatly depend on the
administrative capacity to manage resources. This function has been traditionally been disregarded at the
operational level and overcomplicated at the legal levels. Budget management rules are not phased in
with the procurement processes; personnel development and civil service career rules are complicated;
personnel transfers are difficult under the current law. This situation calls for the definition of a well



116
ANNEX 9
28 of 40
conceived computerized support for these type of operations.  In addition, the development of
accountability within the organization calls for refinement in the data processed.
125.  The support of administrative functions will create an environment for the adequate provision of
material supply replenishment, operational expenditures, and human resource management.  The
subsystem comprises:
*.    SIB-Sistema Integrado de Inventarios y Bienes-the management of goods and physical
facilities system.
SAF-Sistema de Administracion Financiera-the financial management of DIAN's
budgetary appropriations system.
SAP-Sistema de Administracion de Personal-the human resources management system.
3. Managerial Support.
126.  Managerial functions will be supported by informatics at all significant levels:
Local tax administrators and operations chiefs will benefit from a concise set of reports
on their performance and possibilities.
The national tax authorities will have a set of data related to the performance of their
subordinates and a set of data related to the performance of the tax system.
The Ministry fiscal authorities will have a set of tax and fiscal data necessary for shot and
long-term aggregate financial management.



117
ANNEX 9
Z9 ot 4U
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 1
MEASUREMENT OF EVASION: MACRO/SECTORAL
Data Input
*     National accounts
Industrial samples
Sectoral data from tax administration
Data Processing
Transformation of national accounts Into tax legal concepts
*     BEstimation of potential taxable base by sector
Determination of a theoretical tax
Crosscheck with actual collection
Data Output
Selected sector for audits



118
ANNEX 9
30 of 4U
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 2
SELECTION: IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL EVADERS
Data Input
Tax returns
Selection criteria
Data Processing
Arithmetic errors of tax return
Internal consistency check
Memory building and historical analysis
*.    Evaluation algorithm
*     Economic groups Integration
Data Output
DI    Evaluation of individual taxpayers
D.    SHADOW No. 1: Shadow returns for potential evaders based
on presumptions and internal consistency of the return



119
ANNEX 9
31 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 3
CROSSCHECK: PROOFS OF EVASION
Data Input
SHADOW No. 1
*.    Tax Returns
Exogenous Information:
Input-output matrix
Selected transactions from input output matrix
Selected assets for which registration exists
Price indexes
Consumption of electricity
Balance sheets from other Institutions
Other variables to Identify gross bases
Data Processing
Crosscheck of tax returns selected lines
Crosscheck exogenous Information
Data Output
SHADOW No. 2: Shadow returns with proof



120
ANNEX 9
32 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 4
CONSTRUCTION OF INTEGRATED TAXPAYERS:
INFORMATION TREE OF ECONOMIC GROUPS
Data Input
SHADOW NO. 2
Selected sectors
Tax returns
Selection criteria
Data Processing
*.    Crosscheck of partners and associates
Crosscheck of interrelated company transactions
Data Output
Tree of the Economy: Integrated taxpayers
b,    Inconsistent transactions among integrated taxpayers
SHADOW  No. 3: Individual shadow return based on group
consistency



121
ANNEX 9
33 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 5
INTERNATIONAL CROSSCHECK: PROOFS OF EVASION
Data Input
SHADOW No. 4
Exogenous Information:
Selected international transactions
Selected International price indexes
Data Processing
10,    Crosscheck exogenous information
Data Output
*     SHADOW  No. 5:  Shadow returns with proof based on.
international data gathering



122
ANNEX 9
34 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 6
SECTORIAL REFERENCE: SECTORAL FINANCIAL SIMULATIONS
Data Input
SHADOW No. 5
Exogenous Information
Microeconomic structure of the sector
Selected transactions from input/output matrix
Price indexes
Consumption of electricity
Balance sheets from financial institutions
Other variables to identify gross bases
Data Processing
*.    Financial model based on the real economy
Crosscheck exogenous information
Data Output
*     SHADOW  No. 6: Integrated shadow-return hypothesis from:
tax administration
Fiscalization guidelines for selected cases: Target inconsistencies
in taxpayers accounting records



123
ANNEX 9
35 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 7
AUDMITNG STAFF SELECTION MANAGEMENT:
ADMINISTRATIVE ABSORPTION OF SELECTED CASES
Data Input
*-    Selected cases
*.    Allocation criteria
Number Of auditors
Specialization of auditors
Production standards
Budget constraints
Prohibition cases
Regional constraints
Data Processing
Processing of allocation routine
Data Output
Regional allocation of feasible stock
*     Group allocation of stock
*     Individual allocation of stock
*     Management of overflow



12
36 of v0
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 8
AUDIT OPERATION: EXPERT SYSTEM FOR FIELD WORK
Data Input
SHADOW   No. 5:   Shadow-return  hypothesis of tax
administration
Fiscalization guidelines for selected cases
Targeted inconsistencies from taxpayers accounts
Data Processing
No    Verification of Hypothesis: Obtaining proof(s)
Data Output
*     Induced correction by taxpayer following shadow parameters
*     Proposed amendments: Special Summons (Requerimiento
Especial)



125
ANNEX 9
37 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
MODULE 9
AUDIT OPERATION: SUPPORT SYSTEM FOR FIELD WORK
Data Input
Legal system
Precedent in similar cases
Data Processing
Unstructured consultation to support legality of audit
Data Output
Legal interpretation to support either induced correction or
special requirement



126
ANNEX 9
38 of -,O
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHITEClURE
MODULE 10
AUDIT OPERATION: AUDIT SYSTEM FOR COMPUTERIZED ACCOUNTING
Data Input
DI    Accounting plan
Accounting software
Selected transactions
Data Processing
Simulations by the system
Data Output
*     Verification of accuracy of computer programs recording
taxpayers transactions



127
AN EX 9
39 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHrTECTURE
MODULE 11
REVIEW OF IMPACT: FOLLOW-UP OF TAXPAYER BEHAVIOR
Data Input
*.    Returns of taxpayers subject to fiscalization
*     Returns of similar taxpayers not subject to fiscalization
*l    Returns of control group of taxpayers
Data Processing
Routines to compare profiles
Data Output
Evaluation reports on the impact of audits
*0.    Profiles of tax evasion and avoidance



128
ANN;EX 9
40 of 40
COLOMBIA PUBLIC SECTOR INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
SIF: INTEGRATED FISCALIZATION SYSTEM ARCHTECTURE
MODULE 12
ACCOUNTABILITY: FOLLOW-UP OF TAX STAFF BEHAVIOR
Data Input
*     Induced modifications by auditor
*     Offcial modifications by auditor
*.    Actual collection of auditors proposals
Data Processing
Routines to compare profiles
Data Output
Performance evaluation by auditor
Performance evaluation by group of auditors
Performance evaluation by sector
Performance evaluation by region
Overall agency performance evaluation



1 1C0
ANNEX 10
of 7
PUBLIC FINANCIAL NIANAGEMENT:
TREASURY. PUBLIC CREDIT. BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING
Background and Current Situation
1.          The Colombian Public Administration, particularly its financial management
function, has a long tradition of regulation. The 1968 administrative reform established the
basis for the role and organization of public entities, a model which has remained largely
unchanged throughout the 1980s and early 1990s. The model was based on strong
govemmental intervention in support of economic and social development planning design to
influence the performance of both the public and private sectors.
2.          From the viewpoint of public financial management, the model had the
following main characteristics:
The National General Budget (Central Administration and Public Entities), was
based on the concept of financial periods, i.e., expenditures charged were
those allocated within a given financial period no matter when they were made
or paid.
Administrative and intemal budgets for the Commercial and Industrial State
Enterprises were outside the National General Budget.
Fiscal and non-fiscal state revenue were based on established collection
procedures, whether they were effectively collected or not, and were
administered through a vast network of internal taxes and customs collection
offices.
Public credit was regulated and centrally administered on the basis of prior
legislative authorization.
Expense execution was programmed through periodic agreements on
expenditures and payments made centrally and approved by the Council of
Ministers.
Decentralization of budget execution was limited to health and education
services. These were administered through Regional Educational Fund and
Sectional Health Services developed with national, regional and local
representatives from each department.
The Treasury remittance system had three basic modalities: direct payments to
creditors made by the Treasury; allocation of funds to national accounts from
the entities; and authorization accounts for payments outside Bogota made
through regional tax administrators.



i3 C
.NE;.X 10
Foreign credit and official debt management was done through the Bank of the
Republic (the Central Bank), as the financial agent of the Treasury.
Open market operations with Treasury notes were independently carried out by
the Bank of the Republic, making use of its official trust.
Internal controls and administrative accounting were lacking, since all control
and accounting functions were under the responsibility of an external agency,
the Comptroller General of the Republic (CGR), which exercised prior control
over each action in addition to ex-post examining of accounts and
determination of fiscal responsibility.
3.           At the end of the 1970s and the beginning of the 1980s, the Colombian
financial administration system came under increasing scrutiny. Symptoms such as the
following emerged:
-     The evaluation of the tax reform of 1974 showed that the major portion of the
resources obtained had been spent on the state bureaucracy without any
increase in the quantity or quality of services provided.
-     The studies on intra-govemmental finances showed that the automatic
allocations of national resources by other governmental levels encouraged
fiscal "laziness" without resulting in better administrative efficiency.
-     The budgetary process was so cumbersome that it led to a final product that
differed from the initial forecasts.
-     The budgetary accounting results showed no relation to the real cash
operations, since expected but not collected revenues were computed, covering
fictitious fiscal surpluses that served to finance additional budgetary
expenditures.
Policy set by the Monetary Council and executed by the Bank of the Republic,
extensively used the mechanism of open market operations with Treasury
notes; thus, a quasi-fiscal management mechanism was created that generated
expenditures outside the budget and without authorization from the Public
Treasury.
Public expenditures financing modified its structural profile to the detriment of
actual revenue resources, while it increased the financing with monetary
impact, both from foreign resources as well as from exchange differentials and
profits from reserves liquidated by the Bank of the Republic in favor of the
Treasury. Consequently, the financing of regular government expenditures
with these type of resources led to a fiscal economic deficit with inflationary
consequences.
The fiscal control system could not prevent administrative corruption, which
also affected the highest regulatory entity itself, the CGR.



ANNEX 10
3 of 7
4.          In the late 1980s, the above situation began to reverse. Significant adjustment
measures were adopted that brought about a balance in 1992, despite substantial expenditures
in the social security sector. This adjustment also brought about significant reforms to the
previous institutional model, such as:
-     Consolidation of the central administration and public agency budgets into a
single budgetary law, and requirements of government approval of public
enterprise budgets.
-     Possibility of budgeting resources from credits based on Congressional
approval.
-     Elimination of expense agreements to program commitments and creation of a
Superior Council for Fiscal Policy (CONFIS) in charge of financial
programming and approval of the Annual Disbursement Plans and monthly
expenditures agreements.
Elimination of the possibility of financing revenue expenditures with the profits
of the special exchange account of the Bank of the Republic.
T he establishment of a single mechanism for disbursing funds from the
National Treasury through the remittance of resources in favor of public
entities in charge of authorizing expenditures, and the possibility of
establishing a single accounting system for the management of these funds.
-     The authorization of the National Treasury to sell or purchase Government or
Treasury titles in the capital markets.
-     Elimination of the external control exercise by CGR.
-     The creation of a General Accountant position under the Executive Branch
responsible for the Nation's general accounting, which was previously the
responsibility of CGR.
-     Elimination of the Monetary Council and the transformation of the Bank of the
Republic into the State's central bank, explicitly prohibited from granting
credit quotas or guarantees to individuals.
Remaining Constraints.
5.           Despite the above institutional advances, some basic financial administration
problems are in urgent need of reform. First, despite the recent adjustment and opening and
liberalization of the economy, there is still inadequate separation of public administration
from sector financial management for which the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit are
responsible. The entire public finance process, both in programming and implementation, is
subject to a shared responsibility that is not clearly defined between the institutional planning
and financial administration systems. Some of the categories that intermingle in the current
norms, including in the new Constitution of 1991, are: the National Development Plan;



132
ANN1,EX 10
Public Investments National Plan; Development Plans of territorial entities, including their
strategic elements and the short- and medium-term investment plans; National Planning
Council; Territorial Planning Councils; National Investment Plan Law; administration and
results of public administration evaluation systems for which the national planning entity is
responsible; Revenue Budget and Appropriations Law, attached to the National Development
Plan; Financial Plan for two or more years; Annual Investment Operations Plan; Annual
Disbursements Program; National Planning Department; Superior Council for Fiscal Policy;
Economic and Social Policy National Council; Regional Planning Councils; Projects Bank
and Public Sector Financial Plan Evaluation System.
6.           Second, within the State financial administration, whose responsible agency is
the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, there is inadequate integration of (a) budget
revenues, expenditures and financing; (b) collection of financial resources; (c) execution of
expenditures; and (d) control of the entire process. In addition, increased institutional
capacity of the State financial administration is required to carry out new functions, such as
its intervention in the capital markets and its link with the goals of monetary policy.
7.           Third, in future a financial problem may arise from the constitutional
provisions with regard to resource decentralization. In fact, the new Constitution mandates a
gradual increase in the participation of territorial entities in the Nation's current revenues at
the same time that it leaves it up to the law to determine the transfer of equities to such
entities. The structural soundness of public finances in the medium- and long-term will
depend to a large extent on how this aspect is defined in the future.
Future Strategy and Project Objectives
8.           The objectives of the Project's Treasury, Public Credit, Budgeting and
Accounting subcomponents are discussed below.
9.           The Financial Administration, or State Financial Management, is conceived as
a set of institutional systems whose objective is executing fiscal policy through management
of public revenues, public expenditures, and financing. This financial management is present
in all State organizational levels, from the micro level of an entity or public agency up to the
macro level of responsibility of the Ministry of Finance where the scope of the action is the
Consolidated Finances of the Non-Financial Public Sector as a whole. The efficiency of the
Financial Management will depend on a technically suitable organizational and operational
design, specially with regard to the demarcation of areas of authority and responsibilities for
compliance. The Public Financial Administration is part of the administration of a legal
mandate; hence, the Budgeting Subsystem constitutes the legitimating instrument of the
management itself. As a result, the budgeting subsystem will emphasize formulafion,
reformulations, and evaluation of the implementation--thus distancing itself from the
execution process itself, whether this be in the collection and negotiation of resources or the
commitment, causation, or payment of expenditures.
10.          The above reorientation is the culmination of an already initiated process of
promoting accountability in the public function. (A few years, ago, the authorities of the
public entities were not responsible for the financial administration of their respective
agencies. At present, the budget delegates have been suppressed and the CGR auditors have



133
A'NEX 10
5 of 7
lost their authority, while the payers respond to those in charge of authorizing expenditures
and receive and carry out the totality of the funds and payments of the entity.
11.         The process should aim at strengthening and increasing the capacity of the
budgeting subsystem to plan, program, and evaluate financial management functions. It also
will provide reliable, timely, and relevant information on the budgeting execution process
itself. This information can only be derived from an adequate integration with the
accounting subsystem, which is the only source of financial data on the public sector.
12.         Once the Public Finances programming has been successfully formulated by
the Budgeting Subsystem, the financial execution management of the public budget should
remain under the responsibility of the Treasury and Public Credit subsystem, which has been
conceived as a unitary system. The principle of cash unity supposes that once the Nation's
current revenues are collected by revenue administration, these should be centralized in the
Treasury. The Treasury receives the financing resources, that is, internal and external
credit, and transfers the required funds for payment of budgetary commitments.
13.         The management of actual cash operations linked to collections, payment of
expenditures and financing is only possible with administrative tools integrated into a single
area of authority and responsibility. Given the current situation in financial administration,
the change that is being pursued would have the following impacts:
Integrate into a single subsystem the present administration of the Treasury
with the management of Public Credit. The negotiation or the placing of
internal or external loans to finance the public expenditure requires the linking
of the responsibility to formulate the credit policy--at present under the Public
Credit Directorate--with the responsibility of executing such policy through
specific operations, which at present are under the Treasury Directorate.
-     Transfer the management of the Annual Disbursements Programs, which
execute expenditures from the budgeting and planning systems through
CONFIS functions, to the Treasury and Public Credit subsystem by using
adequate tools that would allow anticipation and regulation of the monthly flow
of payments.
-     Recover the Treasury's function of followup and control of the liquidity
disseminated in the entities to pay the expenditures. This implies maintaining
on-line information on the movement of payments and available balances of
each bank account for expenditures with funds from the Treasury maintained
by the entities in the entire national banking network.
14.          While the above described the reforms pursued in the Treasury and Public
Credit subsystem with the respect to the traditional functions of budget execution, this
subsystem must also satisfy other requirements not strictly linked to public budget. As
mentioned earlier, the economic reform program that has been carried out in Colombia
includes the clear demarcation between the State Fiscal and Monetary Powers. The
autonomy and independence of the Bank of the Republic for the monetary, credit and
exchange management and its nature as bank of all banks, needs transparency and guidelines
for managing financial relations with the public sector.



134
ANNEX 10
6 of 7
15.          From now on, the Bank of the Republic, should only be a lender of last resort
to the public sector through the Treasury, and should exclusively make short-term advances
that do not go over a predetermined percentage of the current revenues of the Treasury.
Consequently, public sector entities that need urgent financing should not be allowed to
obtain fiscal credit from the Bank of the Republic, but must tum to the Treasury as last
resort financier. Similarly, public sector entities that require credit resources to finance their
expenditures should only obtain it by complying with the requirements of the Treasury and
Public Credit Subsystem, whether it is an intersectoral credit from the Treasury itself
assigned in the respective budgets, credits negotiated directly by the entities or credits
negotiated with a guarantee from the Treasury. Obviously, all of this implies that the
Treasury is the lender of last resort to the Non-Financial Public Sector.
16.         In addition to the function described above, the Treasury is the institutional
link in coordinating the State's monetary and fiscal policies. In fact, the monetary program
managed by the Bank of the Republic implies net credit goals for the Non-Financial Public
Sector as the leading agency of the consolidated finances of the Public Sector. Lastly, open
market operations for monetary purposes carried out by the Bank of the Republic itself, to a
large extent constitutes the purchase or sale of Treasury notes and the latter, for its part, also
carries out this type of operation in search of resources or use of idle liquidity.
17.          All of the above suggests a dimension for the subsystem that goes beyond that
of strictly budgeting scope of the Treasury to comprise lender or banker responsibilities for
the Non-Financial Public Sector as well as operator of the Internal and External Capital
Markets. This dimension implies that just as the Bank of the Republic is the "bank of
banks," the Treasury is the "public sector bank" with respect to intersectoral loans, liquidity
management, and open market operations. This dimension requires the institutional
development of the Treasury and Public Credit Subsystem and commitment of resources and
technologies beyond their conventional functions, implying a large-scale reform and
modernization effort.
18.          The subsystems and components of the State financial administration must be
coherently and harmoniously linked and related, and this requires-as the main integrating
tool--the financial information generated throughout the subsystem, Budgeting-Taxation-
Treasury and Public Credit on the basis of the needs of each area of responsibility. This
reliable, timely and pertinent financial information should flow in an integrated manner
through the information systems of the financial administration in such a way that it
eliminates duplication of data captured; i.e., specific data must be captured only once in the
total system, and at the same time specific data must be simultaneously available to the user.
Existing computer technology is not an obstacle for the integration challenge among the
linked information systems, as is the case for budgeting, taxation, Treasury, public credit,
banking accounts-fixed assets, among others. This is so thanks to the capabilities of open
architecture equipment, data base software and communications networks among computers.
19.          The difficulties to overcome, however, are the watertight compartments that
have historically been formed between subsets of users and information systems, which
implies that significant design, programming and implementation efforts will have to be
made. Under the concept outlined above, the integrated accounting--understood in the broad
sense as an integrated system of all the information susceptible of quantifying financial data-



135
ANN EX 10
is the subsystem mechanism that is the prerequisite for integrating efficient State financial
information.
20.          The Colombian financial administration is a dramatic example of the
inefficiency of the traditional accounting approach, i.e., exclusive historical record in
accounting books of the economic-financial facts of a certain national public treasury reality.
What is even more serious, the traditional Colombian public accounting was not even
conceived as an administrative activity and task, but was assigned to an agency without links
to those responsible for collecting, expending and financing public management. All of this
led to the multiplication of financial information systems outside accounting and without any
link to the financial statements provided by traditional accounting. The recently established
regulations that modify the control and accounting constitute an invaluable opportunity to
initiate an accelerated technical and administrative process to integrate all the financial
information systems presently in operation; and to link them with the accounting function that
must produce the financial statements and serve as a vital element of the internal control
system.



136
ANNEX 11
1 of 6
MODERNIZATION OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND PUBLIC POLICY EVALUATION
Background and Current Issues
1.          Currently, in Colombia neither the central govemment ministries, other public
entities, nor public sector entities have a rational structure of intemal control. Ever since the
1920s, when the Kemmerer mission laid down the working principles for the Office of the
Comptroller General (CGR)', control principles were never really recognized as such.
However, the generally accepted principles that an effective internal control structure within the
Executive should create the foundation for congressional oversight would implicitly suggest that
both internal and external controls are necessary. Nevertheless, extemal control functions have
been looked after to a certain extent by CGR, thus interfering with the management of public
sector entities. This was generally done through CGR offices or units established within every
public sector entity. There consensus among these entities that this activity paralyzed financial
activities and was carried out in general in an arbitrary and heavy-handed manner. In fact, by
1990, CGR had 12,000 agents, most of them lacking a modern view or the requisite accounting
and auditing skills principles and practices. They just performed an institutionally debilitating
precontrol function, including issuing authorizations for contracts, bids, and cash vouchers, that
went well beyond their initial mandate, often literally duplicating management functions.
2.           While efforts were carried out to improve external control, one under the
responsibility of the Parliament (see para. 28-30 of SAR), it became clear that the internal
control function would also need to be defined and related to systems and procedures and
implemented as soon as possible. Indeed, the absence of internal control in every public entity,
rendered it impossible to enforce accountability-for-results principles now a critical priority of
GOC's public administration modernization program. Current issues include intemal procedures
that do not follow a common format or that serve no useful purpose. Not all public entities'
managers can inform their respective supervisors about achieving institutional objectives in the
a cost effective manner. They are often unable to simply state whether any parts of their
objectives have been achieved at all. Furthermore, it is difficult if at all possible, to base the
planning process on lessons of experience, thus allowing same mistakes to be repeated through
programming cycles. Few existing internal evaluation activities are recognized as useful without
a validation system that would feed other information subsystems such as planning, budgeting,
accounting, and even external control. This is why the proposed integrated public financial
management system requires that the flow of related information be initiated within every public
entity as long as the information on requirements (program and budget) is followed by
information on execution and on actual results (internal control), in addition to information
provided by the accounting function. Without the availability of this integrated and validated
information, it is difficult that the external function can provide the Legislature with reliable
information that would also help feed back the entire financial management cycle for
improvement.
1. A technical assistance mission contracted by GOC to establish the Central Bank of Colombia. Dr. Kemmerer,
leading that mission, was a Princeton University professor.



137
ANNEX 11
2 of 6
Proposed Internal Control System.
3.           Legal Provision and Concept.  Draft Law 110 of 1993 deals specifically with
internal control requirements. Internal control is defined as an integrated system, a set of
norms, procedures, and mechanisms for the internal verification of compliance in every public
entity within its mandate, goals, and work program in a cost-effective manner. The spirit of this
law is to ensure that all public entity activities and its management of available resources are
carried out: (a) in conformity to the law; (b) on an economic basis; and (c) help to achieve the
longer-term objectives of public policies that lead to their budgets and their existence. The law
further requires that such performance be carried out within the principles of ethics, fairness,
efficiency, efficacy, transparency, accountability, and with due consideration to environmental
costs where relevant. The law specifies that the internal control function must be an integrated
one, meaning that it is to be disseminated at every level, possibly by every civil servant, within
every public entity. The proposed project would help GOC implement this vital function
through inputs aimed at strengthening or creating the institutional capacity at the center (DNP),
and initiating the process of creating Internal Control Offices (OCI) in selected public entities
to render special assistance to every public entity's manager.
4.           Organization. The new Constitution (Article 343) and the above law provide the
necessary basis for its implementation in terms of institutional responsibilities. In fact, DNP
already created its Special Division for Performance Evaluation (DEER) by Presidential Decree
2167, December 1992. DNP would be responsible for setting norms and procedures, including
a format ensuring that every public entity's OCI would be organized in the same manner,
making it possible for DNP's DEER to consolidate the resulting information and data. In
addition, DEER would have the responsibility to produce an annual consolidated report on
internal control, including an analysis of the consolidation itself, to inform the President of the
Republic on a regular basis. More specifically, DEER would issue a normative structure as
soon as possible, including evaluation of results standards to be enforced in all public sector
entities and to prepare primary and possibly comprehensive evaluations in key sectors of interest
to the Executive. Part of the previous activities could be subcontracted by DEER. Principles
of "managerial responsibility" (institutional accountability) would be defined and enforced within
"economic units" in every public entity, as well as in every administrative unit. This would
include the maintenance of: (a) sufficient and qualified human resources needed by all economic
units, including possible subcontracting arrangements; (b) an adequate accounting system
following related legislation, norms, and procedures, as defined by MOF's Accounting General
Directorate; (c) effective and efficient internal monitoring systems, including establishment of
internal procedures leading to autonomous monitoring of operations under the responsibility of
the OCI, which should be adequately staffed and equipped; and (d) defining adequate procedures
for efficient and economical performance to achieve institutional objectives and results.
5.           Therefore, enforcing the constitutional and legal disposition of including internal
control principles and procedures in GOC's entire administrative machinery would make it
urgent to proceed with the institutional installation in DNP, as well as in selected public sector
entities before GOC can generalize them to its entire administration at all levels. Although it



138
ANNTEX 11
3 of 6
has been recognized that it is important that common norms and procedures be defined by DNP--
if only to allow for adequate consolidation of the corresponding information--it is recommended
that every entity create its own OCI in accordance with its institutional culture, and as flexibly
as possible. This would help enforce the concept and practice of institutional accountability for
results, reversing trends created by the previous control approach that resulted in irresponsibility
at all levels of staff and among managers as well. In addition, such an innovative approach
would help create more adequate conditions for an efficient and relevant external control by
CGR because of the resulting flow of reliable information. GOC expects that such an approach
would substantially strengthen its capacity to learn more about the impact of its fiscal
management and subsequent improvement. It is also expected that corruption, fraud, and other
mismanagement practices would attenuate given the proposed procedures, which would create
the basis for modem and efficient public financial management in general. More details on key
aspects follow.
6.           Principles.    GOC already has provided an interpretation of legal and
constitutional provisions related to internal control aimed at assessing and evaluating results and
the processes that lead to them. The following principles must inspire all OCIs when setting up
their organization, staff, strategies, and work programs:
(a)   lowest cost: everything that an administrative unit does within a public sector
entity should respect the principle of doing it at the lowest possible cost without
sacrificing the required quality; a cost-benefit study should implicitly or explicitly
consider all choices, even for more abstract administrative activities;
(b)   Comprehensiveness:  internal control must- be defined and enforced in all
administrative units, and include all processes and tasks from the legal,
regulatory, administrative, efficiency, and effectiveness viewpoints;
(c)   timeliness: the internal control system must accompany every administrative
activity. To this end, every civil servant must be aware of the concept and its
principles and procedures enforced by the corresponding OCI, and that all
managers in the entity are accountable for efficiency and results;
(d)   administrative modernization: the system of internal control must help simplify
administrative processes and reduce bureaucratic hurdles so as to increase overall
effectiveness; and
(e)   measurable performance:  the system  must include measurable performance
indicators so as to appreciate how useful and efficient it can be and how it is
improving over time.
7.           Consolidation of Evaluation-generated Information.  Every OCI must produce
an annual report in accordance with format, norms, and procedures set forth by DEER.
However, it is conceivable that not all OCIs perform related activities directly. Some may
prefer to subcontract intemal control activities to external consultants. In all cases, however,



139
ANNEX 11
4 of 6
a report should be submitted to DEER following the same format. This is because DEER is
responsible for consolidating the corresponding information into a single central administration
(in the future, other levels of public administration as well) so as to inform the President of the
Republic about performance of the Executive branch. Internal control reports, including the
consolidated one, should regularly provide information about financial transactions, and the
relationship with related approved budgets, and costs, in addition to adherence to accounting
norms. They should further inform on asset/properties management, hiring process of qualified
civil servants in accordance with legal requirements, and on administrative structure and its
capacity to help achieve results at the lowest possible cost--including the internal control function
and activities themselves.
8.           Validation of Generated Information. OCIs are responsible for designing their
own intemal control system as long as they respect the general format proposed by DEER. As
expressed above, it is allowed, though, to subcontract intemal control activities to external
consultants or consulting firms. However, as every public entity must have, by law, an OCI,
some OCIs would be staffed with at least one professional responsible for the corresponding
function and support staff. If only one internal control activity is subcontracted, it is desirable
that this be the validation subfunction for reasons of objectivity. It is important to recall that
one of the most important elements of objectivity is that internal-control-generated information
can be audited externally by CGR, re Law 42 of 1993.
9.          Integration of Internal Control with Evaluation of Results. It is expected that
internal control reports should provide the basis for, among others, feeding the evaluation of
results function, as defined in Article 343 of the new Constitution, and related planning norms
to be established by DNP, designated as the National System of Ex-Post Evaluation, which will
still be regulated by Presidential Decree. This system would encompass:
(a)   methodological norms for management control and evaluation of results,
including:
i.    analysis/evaluation of preinvestment decisions and expenditures programs;
ii.    budget execution monitoring;
iii.   physical monitoring;
iv.    administrative decision-making processes;
v.    quality standards and measurable performance indicators; and
vi.   quantification of expected and actual impacts, costs, and effective results.
(b)   information system specifications and norms that would help establish the required
information flows from public entities at all administrative levels;



140
ANNEX 11
5 of 6
(c)   information flows originated by the OCIs; and
(d)   information generated by previous cycles of public policy evaluations.
10.         The coordination of such a system would also be the responsibility of DNP's
DEER. DEER would consolidate the corresponding information and would feed the Public
Policy Evaluation function. On the other hand, DEER would also provide a common design and
format for elements to be considered within the several functions included in the ex-post
evaluation system thus defined. This will help clarify how investment projects should be
evaluated, in addition to achieving other objectives and purposes, as defined above. The
resulting consolidated information should be an important tool to improve the planning process,
providing, in particular, information to help define opportunity, nature, and size of proposed
new investment projects. It should also facilitate reaching higher levels of coherence between
investment decisions and priorities, in addition to increasing timeliness, clarity, and importance
of expected results, as well as cost effectiveness. Mid-term evaluations carried out in this
integrated manner should further contribute to making decisions of reorienting, accelerating, or
even cancelling projects. Final evaluations would also provide information that would help
improve the next public investment programming cycle.
11.         Ultimately, the entire process of public investment and expenditure cycle and
system would gain from the kind of comprehensive and integrated information provided by the
internal control and evaluation systems. This information would be specifically focused on: (a)
output features; (b) level of achievement of goals and objectives, including related costs; (c)
efficiency and efficacy aspects; and (d) ultimate impact of achieved results as matched with
initial objectives. This would be achieved through:
(a)   evaluation of project justification and background compared to alternative
investment opportunities;
(b)   using internal control consolidated results in every OCI to feed the evaluation of
results by DNP's DEER;
(c)   critical evaluation of ex-ante appraisal of investment proposals, elucidating
arguments and the rationales used during the approval process;
(d)   closely monitoring budget execution in its physical and financial dimensions,
always comparing this to what was initially programmed;
(e)   direct and indirect impact of approved investment projects as well as net final
results;
(f)   quantification to the extent possible of benefits and economic and financial costs
against alternative projects;



141
ANNEX 11
6 of 6
(g)   analysis of factors that can explain failures or limited successes of approved
investment projects; and
(h)   formulation of conclusions taking all the above into consideration so as to feed
back the entire organization and decision-making process.
Proposed Project Contribution to the Above.
12.         GOC has made much progress in defining government control procedures,
including constitutional dispositions redistributing responsibilities, in particular among MOF and
CGR; hence, this subcomponent has a limited but important objective. The system design for
integrated financial management would improve substantially the definition of "government
control." In addition, a study would review procurement procedures to help determine a
standard cost system for the acquisition of goods and services by the public sector. A computer
system would be designed to help keep all administrative procedures under control.
13.         This subcomponent would finance the design of an internal control system aimed
at evaluating results and the processes that lead to them, and eventually reach a level of
aggregation that would help evaluate public policies. More specifically, the proposed project
would include a specific component that would help determine control indicators to: (a) monitor
costs effectively paid; (b) ensure compliance with legal dispositions in the process of procuring
goods and services; (c) ensure compliance with accounting procedures set forth in the above-
defined accounting manuals; (d) follow up internal control procedures to minimize fraud
opportunities; (e) follow up implementation of approved spending programs by public entity;
(f) monitor effectiveness of delivering public services by type of service; and (g) help assess
economic and environment impacts of public investments and the delivery of public services to
be applied to both existing and new programs.
14.         This subcomponent totals US$2.29 million, including: (a) 78 person/months of
local consultants and 23 person/months of international consultants to prepare the structure,
procedures, and regulations of the proposed internal control system, define new internal audit
standards, and draft the corresponding manuals (US$1.24 million); (b) basic and advanced
training activities for about 1,000 participants to ensure understanding of the new procedures and
skills to implement them adequately in selected public administration entities (US$0.37 million);
(c) informatics equipment to establish required linkages between and among entities (US$0.68
million); and (d) acquisition of books and related materials, and dissemination of Operational
Manuals (US$0.06 million).



142
ANNEX 12
1 of 2
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank ExRerience
With Technical Assistance
1.          The proposed project would be only the second free-standing technical
assistance operation in Colombia. the first such operation, the Caja Agraria Institutional
Development Project (Ln. 2909-CO) was approved in FY88 and is still under
implementation. The Caja Agraria project has so far failed to meet its institutional
development objectives, though various studies have been completed and equipment
purchased.  The project has suffered from  a combination of the borrower's low
commitment to project objectives and the inadequacy of the leverage available to the Bank
under the project.
2.          Technical assistance components have been included in the majority of
recent investment loans to Colombia. However, this project-by project approach has
proved to have several disadvantages. Technical assistance components have received low
priority by comparison with other project components. In some cases, inadequate attention
was given to preparation and supervision of TA components. Where TA was provided to
improve financial management, it often failed to take sufficient account of the overall
framework for public financial management, and therefore proved unsustainable. The
Barranquilla Water Supply Project (Ln. 2637-CO) is one example of the shortcomings of
the traditional approach to institutional development.  The loan included technical
assistance to improve the financial management system of the borrower. However, the
borrower proved unreceptive to attempts to improve its accounting practices. This was
enough to frustrate efforts at institutional development, since they were not part of any
large endeavor, but instead were purely internal to the water company. In addition, since
the main focus of the operation was lending for infrastructural investment, less Bank
attention was given to the TA component.
3.          The design of the proposed project draws from this experience. Since it is
a free-standing technical assistance operation, institutional development is its main
objective, not a corollary to investment lending. Furthermore, unlike past operations, the
project will take account of the overall framework for public financial management from
resource mobilization (tax administration reform) to public policy evaluation. Though
subcomponents will concentrate on selected ministries and agencies, these reforms will
take place in the context of overall reform of the public sector's systems and practices in
integrated financial management.
4.          Though experience with technical assistance for institutional development
in Colombia is somewhat limited, there is significant Bank-wide experience from which
lessons can be drawn. Annual technical assistance reports have been produced by the
Central Operations Department, while the research complex has undertaken various studies
of Bank efforts to promote institutional development through technical assistance. These
reports have put forward several lessons that were largely taken into account in preparing
the proposed project.



143
ANNTEX 12
2 of 2
5.          Experience suggest that TA design should be preceded by careful analysis
of the institutional factors involved, including an assessment of the borrower's
commitment. In the case of the proposed operation, the project concept has is beeing
developed jointly by the Bank and borrower. Project objectives have the full support of
central government officials at the highest levels. The aims of the project can be expected
to come into conflict with various vested interests, which will probably pose a challenge
in the short term. However, public opinion in Colombia is no longer tolerant of lax
management of public sector funds. The growing public demand for accountability will
be the best guarantee of the project's prospects for sustainability.
6.          Other Bank operations have shown the need for project design to be as
simple as possible, with borrowers closely involved from the earliest phases of
preparation. Bank experience also suggests that verifiable indicators of performance
should be included in project design. All the above have been taken into account in the
proposed project.
Public Expenditures Management.
7.          Bank experience in advising on how to improve the management of public
expenditures is wide because it has always been a concern systematically addressed as part
of country dialogues. Indeed, the institutional capacity ingredient of public expenditures
management is a highly complex and sensitive area. This is because of its highly political
nature, given the number and diversity of entities involved that considering that they have
a vital stake in the process. The Bank has approached public expenditures operationally
through structural lending operations, technical assistance, and country economic and
sector work, trying in general to rationalize public investment programs including size and
composition of sectoral allocation. Reviews of Bank practices and experience recommend
that institutional and procedural reforms in the process by which public expenditures are
prepared should be addressed more systematically. This is exactly what the proposed
project is doing. A recent operational experience such as the BOLIVIA--Public Financial
Management Operations I (completed) and II (under implementation) confirm that well-
defined and enforced processes are critical to overall and durable improvement of public
expenditures.






NOTES






MAP SECTION






IBRD 18370Rl
7r                                              _74                                           -   CUBA_-
JAZ ,Ci- A?              -    A,,PoIA,U
, JN  -   W>vS  ~~~ o CDEOG                '0nCro
-5 _ -             HOISM 4--R          |Ui  
~2*COLOMBIA                                                                        >. - rte.  eOca
i>;;  a    / 5  @   /                              A       s          .....    _~~~~VEEZULA 
' COLOMI
ATLANTI0            -/                                                       ; , 
BRAZIL
,9) < *    C E Si J           -                        |*" < 5 r t)  AEA%
PANAMA                                                                                                                    I  ,           I
I ~            RTA. .1   A..A..p..r                              b  A  A~A.*~f.,, 
H M 
;>;                                                  et/             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V I C  H ADA
'1  EG CU A VI AO RE                                                       -
~~2'4l4<~~ A Q  U (E T
R  -.  \.                                                                                      i0 0  50  100  150
When Population of Center Towns,    EftgvtonA  mwnrl(                                                                                              1_50'
5,000p00 perww's      _                 *_ J-                                    <c,           . .  0    50   100  I5o  200  2io
0(000            ___I,oooooo   n  I  o                       AMAZONAS                -'-'        )tKILOMETERS
2,00~00I1.000                p
5000.000                                                                                                   BR AZILAZ NA
5o,o$ 4 J o > i~ B R A   Z  I L
*     National Capitol
o     Cities and Townst with Ppuiation Over 40,000
-        Main Highways                                   p  E   R   U 
-*-  D portm_nt 2LnpriJs
- -Intrnat.onal Boundcla,es/                                                               /
_   7!-                    7, -                                    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-5w,9 ~~~~~~~~JULY 1.0



