Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22884
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36690)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30.0 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
COLOMBIA
FOR A
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
09/28/2001
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Country Management Department for Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos
I Colombian Peso = US$ 0.0004333
US$ I = 2,305 Colombian Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -       Country Assistance Strategy
CGN          -       Contador General de la Nacion (National Accountant General)
CGR          -       Contraloria General de la Republica (Comptroller General of the Republic)
COCOR         -      Comite de Coordinaci6n (Coordination Committee)
COMEX                Automated System for Processing Imports and Exports
CONPES       -       Economic and Social Policy Council
CUN                  Cuenta Unica de la Naci6n (Single National Account)
DAN          -       Direcci6n de Aduanas (Directorate of Customs)
DANE         -       Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadisticas (National Statistical
Department)
DIAN         -       Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Directorate of National Taxes
and Customns)
DNP                  Departamento Nacional de la Planneacion (National Planning Department)
GDP          -       Gross Domestic Product
GOC                  Govemment of Colombia
GTZ          -       German Technical Assistance Agency
IBRD         -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB          -       hiter-American Development Bank
IMF          -       International Monetary Fund
LCR                  Latin America and Caribbean Region
MAFP                 Modemizaci6n de la Administraci6n de Finanzas Publicas (Public Financial
Management Project)
MHCP         -       Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
NDP           -      National Development Plan
OSI           -      Oficina de Servicios Informaticos (Office of Informatics Services)
PAD          -       Project Appraisal Document
PFMP-I-       Public Financial Management Project - I
PFMP-II      -       Public Financial Management Project - 11
PIP          -       Project Implementation Plan
PMU          -       Project Management Unit
POA          -       Programa Operativo Annual (Annual Operational Program)
SAR          -       Staff Appraisal Report
SIAT         -       Sistema Informatico de Administraci6n Tributaria
SICAT        -       System for Selection of Cases for Tax Audit
SIGADE       -       UNCTAD'S Debt Manaerement Rvctm
SIGLO XXI   -        Customs Iiformation System (Twenty First Century)
SIIF-                Sistema Itegrado de Informaci6n Financiera
(Integrated Financial Managemnt System)
SINERGIA    -        Sistema Namional de EvaluacI6n de Gest6n y Resltados
(National System for Evaluation of Management and Results)
SIPAC         -      System for Recovery of Tax Arreas
SOE                  Staement of Expenses
SUIP          -      Public Investment Inibomaton System of DNP
USIRS         -      United States Intemal Revenue Service
VAT                  Value Added Tax
Vice President    David de Fenanti
Country Manager/Director:    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:    Enesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jit Gill



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and of Quality at Entry  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                      9
6. Sustainability                                                          10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                           12
8. Lessons Learned                                                         14
9. Partner Comments                                                        14
10. Additional Information                                                 35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                       36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                       47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       49
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                       50
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components       52
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                          53
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                      54
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006889                                       Project Name: CO PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN
Team Leader: Jit Bahadur S. Gill                          TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 1, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CO PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                        LIC/TFNumber: CPL-36690
Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BF - Public Financial Management
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/15/1992                              Effective: 05/10/1994
Appraisal:  06/03/1993                                MTR:
Approval:  12/07/1993                              Closing: 06/30/2000           03/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          S. Shahid Hussain
Country Manager:     Olivier Lafourcade                         Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:      Claudia Maria Costin                       Shahid Chaudhry
Team Leader at ICR:   Jit Bahadur S. Gill                       Alan Tobelem
ICR Primary Author:   Rita E. Parrilli
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Public Financial Management Project (PFMP) was to initiate a process to help
improve the management of public finances in Colombia, including a spectrum of functions, from revenue
generation, public expenditure management to evaluation of public policies at the national level. This was
to be done through the definition, installation, and deployment of accountability principles and procedures
within selected national entities, in the short to medium term (six years), as a preliminary step before
implementation throughout the public administration in the longer term. The project represented an
integrated approach to strengthening institutional capacity in public sector financial management in
Colombia.
The project's objectives were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to
the Board in November 1993 which emphasized inter alia the need to help Colombia consolidate and
deepen its structural reforms and strengthen institutional capabilities. The objectives continued to be
consistent with subsequent CASs which supported poverty reduction, social development and sustainable
growth, inter alia through improved public sector responsiveness and efficiency. Strengthening of the
institutional capacity of the government to raise revenues and ensure effectiveness and value for money in
public expenditure was key to the attainment of these goals. This became even more important in view of
the severe macro-economic problems faced by Colombia throughout the 1990s.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
A. Resource Mobilization                       US$
(thousands)
Tax Administration                          15,000
Treasury and Public Credit                  3,800
B. Macro-programming                              500
C. Expenditure Management
Program-based Budgeting (Budget Programming)   2,800
Budget Spending (Execution) Accounting       2,200
D. Control and Public Policy Evaluation
Internal Control (Public Policy Evaluation)  1,040
External Control                              550
E. Institutional Strengthening
Government Informatics (SHF)                 990
Project Administration                      1,800
F. Physical Contingencies                       1,400
Total:                                         30,000
The complexity of the project in terms of the number of government entities and components was
unavoidable if the project's goal of establishing a comprehensive, transparent and integrated public
financial management system was to be achieved.
3.4 Revised Components:
-2 -



While the objectives of the project remained unchanged, some adjustments were made to facilitate project
implementation, vary the composition of inputs in response to implementation experience and respond to
emerging needs. First, a part of the funds earmarked for the Treasury, Accounting and Budgeting
sub-components were combined with the Informatics component to finance the development of the Sistema
Integrado de Informacion Financiera (Integrated Financial Management Information System - SIIF).
Compartmentalized allocations, managed by separate departments in the Ministerio de Hacienda and
Credito Publico (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit - MHCP), were found to inhibit development of a
truly integrated system. Second, the loan agreement originally called for $20.6 million to be allocated for
goods and $6.0 million for consultant services. While the hardware requirements of the Direcci6n de
Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (Directorate of National Taxes and Customs - DIAN) and the SIIF were
substantial, project financed consultancies, including those for development of various software systems,
were higher than those initially estimated. The loan proceeds between categories were, therefore,
reallocated in 1997 increasing the allocation for consultants to $14.03 million and decreasing the amount
for equipment to $14.70 million. Third, at the outset of the project, strengthening of the Customs
administration, which was merged with tax administration in 1993 to form the DIAN, was not included in
the project. However, continuing weaknesses in customs administration became a major cause for concern
for the DIAN. Therefore, some PFMP funds were reallocated to begin the development of a modem set of
information systems for customs, collectively christened SIGLO XXI (21st Century).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The PFMP's outcome is assessed as satisfactory. The project successfully achieved its development
objectives related to reforns in revenue administration and public expenditure management, through a
series of mutually reinforcing activities. The gains made by the project are expected to be maintained in the
long term. These will also be reinforced by the Public Financial Management Project - II (PFMP-II).
The project has significantly improved the ability of the Government to collect due taxes, through
introduction of state-of-the-art information systems for processing tax returns and payments and
monitoring, facilitating and enforcing compliance with the tax laws; and improvements in the DIAN's
organization and management. It has also begun the process of strengthening the customs administration.
At the same time, the project has substantially enhanced the ability of the MHCP and the Departamento
Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning Department - DNP) in macro-programming and budget
formulation; increased efficiency, transparency and accountability in budget execution, through
improvements in accounting norms and procedures, implementation of the SIIF throughout the central
govenmuent, and strengthening of the capacity of the Contraloria General de la Republica (Comptroller
General of the Republic - CGR) in financial and performance audits and social control. The project was
also instrumental in introducing an innovative National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector
Performance (SINERGIA) to encourage a results-orientation in the public sector. Finally, the project
modernized the informatics infrastructure of the DIAN, the MHCP and the DNP. At the institutional level,
the project has benefited DIAN, the MHCP, the DNP, the CGR, and the Contador General de la Nacion
(National Accountant General - CGN) by providing them with technical assistance, information systems,
equipment and training, thus, enabling them to better perform existing and new functions.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The ICR assigns satisfactory ratings to each of the component outputs based on the following evaluation
of achievements of goals. In the case of Revenue Administration, the goals were exceeded and is, therefore,
rated as highly satisfactory:
-3-



I.    RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
(A)   Revenue Administration
(a)    Tax Administration
(i)    Voluntary Compliance
Since voluntary compliance is the bedrock of revenue collection, various steps were taken to help taxpayers
comply with their legal obligations. These included setting up of special units to provide services to
taxpayers, importers, and exporters; providing information regarding tax law changes and compliance
procedures through publications, TV spots, the internet and over the telephone; establishing an Office of
Grievances and Complaints and an Office of the Taxpayer Ombudsman ; and provision of the facility for
electronic filing of tax returns to large taxpayers in five major regional administrations. The impact of
these efforts is reflected in easier filing of tax returns for large taxpayers, increase in the number of tax and
customs declarations filed, from 3.85 million in 1997 to 4.0 million in 2000 and a reduction in the
compliance gap for VAT from 32.4% in 1994 to 23% in 2000.
(*i)   Processing Tax Declarations and Payments
The PFMP provided DLAN with sophisticated tools to manage the heavy information flow associated with
about four million tax declarations filed annually. A new taxpayer current account system was
implemented, along with a system that automatically updates the current account by incorporating the
irnpact of administrative decisions, such as assessments, penalties, appeals and refunds, on a taxpayer's tax
liabilities. The system has been installed in all 32 national tax administration centers. In addition, systems
have been commissioned for monitoring the performance of commercial banks that collect tax declarations
and payments and linking their compensation to the quality of service; monitoring the deduction and
payment of taxes by tax withholders; and controlling tax refunds and credits. The period for which banks
retain tax receipts has been negotiated down from 22 to 14 days. A system for consolidation of accounts
for tax and customs collection nationwide was implemented. As mentioned above, electronic filing of tax
returns has been introduced for large taxpayers. So far about 1 1,000 taxpayers, accounting for more than
60% of tax payments, use this facility. The impact of these initiatives has been improved timeliness of
receipt and processing of tax declarations and paymnents, elimination of filing errors in case of taxpayers
filing electronically, reduction in the cost of services provided by banks to the DIAN; availability of
updated information regarding taxpayer liabilitie within 20 days of payment; improved informnation on
overall revenue collections and enhancement of DLAN's ability to monitor compliance and initiate remedial
actions promptly.
(iii)   Enforcement
In order to improve the enforcement capacity of tax administration, the project helped: (i) implement a
system for automatically generating notices to taxpayers who fail to file returns on time and/or default on
payment; (ii) develop and implement an advanced system for selection of cases for tax audit (SICAT); (iii)
develop and implement a new tax arrears recovery system (SIPAC); (iv) develop methodologies for
estimation of the extent of evasion in VAT and Income Tax; (v) create an input-output matrix for major
industries to support auditors in investigation of cases. The impact of these measures, coupled with other
actions taken by the DIAN, has been a significant improvement in the enforcement capacity of the tax
administration. Additional revenue of Colombian Pesos 20.7 billion and Colombia Pesos 25 billion was
- 4 -



generated in 1999 and 2000, respectively, by sending non-compliance letters to taxpayers who failed to file
their tax declarations. Tax collections as a result of administrative and enforcement actions increased from
US$ 35.8 million in 1995 to US$ 385.9 million in 1999 Source: DIAN and PFMP. Additional tax assessed
as a result of tax audits increased from 1.55% of total tax collections in 1996 to 5.57% in 1999. Also, the
gap between potential and actual VAT collections has dropped from 32.40% in 1994 to 23% in 2000 (the
compliance gap for Income Tax and Business Tax has remained steady around 40%).
(b)    Customs Administration
Following the merger of customs and tax administrations in 1993, the number of customs staff was reduced
from 5,000 to about 2,000, resulting in a significant loss of expertise both at management and functional
levels. The modernization of customs administration lagged behind tax in informatics capacity as well. In
addition, the level of political interference and corruption in customs was perceived to be higher than that in
tax administration. These factors resulted in a marked weaknesses in the institutional capacity of customs.
In the meantime, the volume and sophistication of international trade increased.
Some PFMP funds were, therefore, reallocated in 1998 to begin the development of a modem set of
information systems, collectively called SIGLO XXI (21st Century), while providing assistance to update
legacy systems for operation in the interim. A pilot of the new system of processing customs declarations
and payments (COMEX) has been commissioned at BogotA airport, which accounts for 42% of the
country's import declarations and about 30% of customs revenues. The system allows transporters to file
manifests and brokers to file customs declarations electronically and currently has about 800 external
users. The COMEX has made substantial improvements in processing of imports through the BogotA
airport. In August 2001, COMEX was installed in Medellin. For improving the capacity of customs in
risk analysis and post-release audits, a customs auditing system (SIFARO) was implemented. Also, a
system for the management of sale of confiscated goods (ADA) has been put into operation. The impact of
these measures includes quicker and more efficient clearance of goods at sites where COMEX has been
installed: 43% of the import declarations are processed the same day and all processes, except physical
inspection and payment, can be conducted via the internet. Discretion has been reduced due to
standardization and greater transparency of processes. Also, post release audits have become more focused
and management and sale of confiscated and abandoned goods has improved.
(c)    Organization and Management of the DIAN
In the last ten years, important initiatives have been taken to strengthen the organization and management
of revenue collection. In 1991, the Direcci6n de Impuestos (DIN) was converted into a Special
Administrative Unit with increased budgetary autonomy and a special regime concerning its staff. Similar
changes were made in the Customs administration, Direcci6n de Aduanas (DAN). In 1993, the DIN and
the DAN were merged to form the Direcci6n de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (DIAN) to exploit
potential synergy between the two functions. This arrangement was partially modified in 1997 to create
separate Directorates for Customs and Taxes under a common Directorate General, while keeping
corporate and support functions unified. Under powers granted by Law 488 of 1998, the DLAN was
designated as an essential public service, with its own legal personality and administrative autonomy. Its
budgetary autonomy was increased by permitting it to retain proceeds of sale of confiscated goods as well
as of other services provided to clients. Adjustments in the organizational structure were made to reduce
duplication of functions and jurisdictional conflicts. New human resource management policies were
instituted to ensure merit-based recruitment and promotion, facilitate inter-functional mobility, reward
performance for team work, tax audit, tax collection and achievement of national level targets; improve
performance evaluation, encourage professional and managerial development and strengthen institutional
- 5 -



capacity for HR management A legal database providing access to legislation, case laws and regulations
on tax, customs and foreign exchange control issue through the internet was implemented. To control
corruption, the Office of Disciplinary Investigations was placed under the Director General and special
administrative disciplinary regime was created for expeditious removal of corrupt employees. Improved
financial management and pay-roll systems were implemented. Also, a detailed analysis of business
processes was carried out to assess corruption risks therein and identify changes to mitigate the risk.
Finally, a major overhaul of the informatics infrastructure of the DIAN was undertaken. This included
creation of a wide area network, setting up of local area networks in each regional administration,
procurement or upgrade of new communication systems, servers, PCs and printers.
Impact: Improved management information systems have increased the ability of management to set
strategic targets, monitor performance and ensure attainment of organizational objectives. Financial
management and pay roll systems have improved efficiency in these areas. The legal database has enabled
DIAN staff to take more informed decisions on legal and regulatory issues. Corruption risk maps have laid
the basis for modification of business processes to reduce corruption. The modernization of the informatics
capacity of the DIAN has empowered regional administrations by allowing them direct access to corporate
databases for planning and execution of their operations, quickened information exchange between the
headquarters and the regions, slashed processing time of major business processes and improved the quality
of information.
TIhe support provided by the project to the DIAN was complemented by assistance from other donors. In
1998, the government agreed with the IDB on the implementation of an Action Plan to reform tax and
customs administration, in the context of structural adjustment loan Programa Inter-Americano de
Reforma de las Finanzas Puiblicas (Loan No. 1166-OC-CO). The GTZ provided technical training to
DIAN staff and helped the DIAN develop a medium term strategic vision. Under Plan Colombia, the
USIRS and US Customs Service are providing training assistance to DLAN and other law enforcement
agencies in criminal investigations of tax evasion, foreign exchange violations, black market operations and
money laundering from the drug trade.
(B)   Treasurv
One of the major outputs of the PFMP has been the development and implementation of the SIIF. Many of
the sub-systems foreseen in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), for the Treasury, were subsumed in the
SIIF as modules. The project has also supported development or acquisition of systems for: (i) planning of
treasury operations; (ii) management of investment portfolios; and (iii) management of legal information
pertinent to the Treasury. The government also carried out an analysis of treasury processes and functions,
using its own resources, and made appropriate organizational changes in the National Treasury
Directorate. Impact the Treasury Directorate has been transformed into the public sector bank; a single
national Account (CUN) has been established, idle balances in commercial banks and public sector entities
have been reduced (see also SIIF below) and cash flow management has improved..
(C)   Public Debt Management
The project provided assistance to strengthen the public debt management function in the MHCP. The
organizational structure, functions and procedures in the Public Credit Directorate were analyzed and
improved. Also, performance and portfolio quality indicators were developed. The debt database was
audited and cleaned up. The project assisted the Directorate in identification of options for the replacement
of the existing debt management system. Based on the analysis, UJNCTAD's debt management system
(SIGADE) was chosen. The first phase of system implementation and staff training was completed under
- 6 -



the project. The system will be fully commissioned under the PFMP-II. In addition, a methodology for
assessment and management risk in public debt management at the central government level was developed.
This enabled the Government of Colombia (GOC) to better structure its debt portfolio and reduce risk.
Similarly, a reliable database was established on debt at the territorial level and debt management
assistance was provided. The project also supported development of the curriculum for post-graduate
studies in public debt management at the University of the Andes to help staff maintain up-to-date skills.
II.    EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
(A)   Macro-Programming and Budget Formulation
The PFMP helped: (i) support a multi-party Commission for the Rationalization of Public Expenditures
whose recommendations have been an important input to policy reform in areas such as pensions, territorial
transfers, and privatization; (ii) strengthen the capacity of MHCP and DNP in macro-economic analysis for
the purpose of macro-programming, through strengthening and implementation of: (a) methodologies for
production of quarterly national statistics and GDP estimates, monitoring of real economic activity, and
preparation of social accounting matrices and related staff training in these areas; (b) models for economic
analysis, including general equilibrium models and a model for fiscal projections; and (c) information
systems for generating leading indicators, monitoring of public finances and monitoring of public sector
cash flow; (iii) restructure the Unit for Territorial Development, implement an information system to
monitor territorial transfers (more than 40% of central government revenues are transferred to lower levels
of government by law) and provide training to the staff of DNP and decentralized entities; (iv) Terms of
reference and bidding documents for the analysis and design of a Public Investment Information System
(SUIP - Capital Budgeting) to help DNP formulate and monitor the investment budget (the actual design is
being financed under PFMP II) and (v) provide online access to budgeting norms. The upgrading of the
system for evaluation of territorial finances was also supported by the IDB's operation to strengthen
territorial information systems (FOSIT). Impact: Improved macro-economic, sectoral and territorial
information as well as better analytical tools are now available to the government for economic policy and
budgetary decision making.
(B)   Budget Execution
One of the major outputs of the PFMP has been the development and implementation of an Integrated
Financial Management System (SIIF) encompassing the entire budget execution process. The main system
modules are: Receipts, Expenditures, Annual Cashflow Plan, Single National Account, Accounting,
Interfaces with other systems, including those of the DIAN, System Administration and Security. Decree
2806 of December 2000 sets forth the requirements for management of public resources and the application
of the SIIF. The system was developed in coordination with MHCP, DNP, CGR and DIAN. It is in
operation in all the 46 central government entities, and has over 1,000 users. It covers about 80% of the
central government budget. A comprehensive user manual was developed and more than 400 government
staff participated in 14 theoretical and practical seminars and about 1500 participated in 18 SIIF
orientation seminars. Impact: Central government entities are able to execute their budget on line and
payments are now made through the Single National Account (CUN). The SIIF automatically generates
accounts based on transactional information (about 15,000 transactions daily) and the data is available to
the CGR for real time audit. The system has significantly increased effectiveness, efficiency, transparency
and accountability in budget execution (see Annex I for details).
(C)   Expenditure Accounting
-7 -



The new Constitution (1991) created the Office of the Accountant General (CGN) in MHCP with
responsibility for consolidating the national budget and establishing state financial statements based on an
accounting plan for all government levels. Earlier, government accounts were prepared and audited by the
CGR. The project supported the establishment of the Office of the CGN. The CGN has since developed
and implemented a new chart of accounts and new accounting norms. In addition, the project has provided
training to about 3,500 staff at central, regional and local levels in the new norms and procedures of
accounting. Imnpact: the office of the CGN has been established by law as a regulatory entity for the public
sector. Accounting and auditing have been separated as a result the creation of the Office of the CGN, thus
eliminating the conflict of interest implicit in the preparation and auditing of national accounts by the CGR.
A comprehensive accounting system has been established throughout the public sector, consistent with
accounting guidelines, to ensure uniformity of accounting procedures and classification. Consolidated
national accounts have been published annually by the CGN since 1995.
(D)   External Control
Assistance was provided in developing methodologies and skills in 'second generation auditing' i.e.
management and performance audits. The project helped the CGR to strengthen social control over public
expenditure, by involving civil society in oversight and audit activities. The emphasis was on improving
oversight of high impact and high risk projects where significant resources are being invested. The project
provided training to about 580 staff of the CGR in financial, performance and management audits and
social control, besides supporting dissemination activities relating to social control.
(E)   Monitoring and Evaluation
With assistance from the PFMP, GOC embarked on an ambitious initiative to introduce results-oriented
management in the public sector. A comprehensive National System for Evaluation of Results of Public
Sector Performance (SINERGIA) was implemented in all 16 sector ministries and 170 public entities, as
well as in two departmnents and three municipalities to institutionalize systematic evaluation of government
policies, programs, projects and entities. Under this system Indicative Plans (IPs) are established for each
sector and entity for each year. In the case of sectors, the IPs include the strategic objectives of the sector
and specific indicators relating to the actual results to be achieved, along with targets for minimum,
satisfactory and excellent performance. In the case of public entities, besides sector objectives, the
objectives of the entity are also included. The system has been in operation since 1997. Performance
evaluations of the sector ministries are carried out by the DNP. The entities carry out auto-evaluation and
are also evaluated by the respective ministry. The project supported the design and establishment of DNP's
Results Evaluation Directorate which oversees SINERGIA. An information system to manage the
evaluation system has also been implemented. Impact: SINERGIA has changed the tenor of annual
reports presented by the DNP to the Economic and Social Policy Council (CONPES) and to the Congress,
by focusing attention on strategic objectives, performance indicators and actual performance, instead of on
merely on levels of public spending. At the entity level, SINERGIA has helped clarify the key results areas
of each entity and the results expected of it. Based on SINERGIA, the DNP and MHCP have started
entering into Efficiency Agreements with specific ministries and public entities, under which, in exchange
for commitments regarding availability of funds made by DNP and MHCP, the ministry or public entity
concemed commits to deliver specific outputs.
F.    Strengthenina of Informatics Cavacity
The Informatics Unit of MHCP was strengthened and hardware and software was provided to establish a
- 8 -



local area network and intranet for the Ministry facilitating production of financial reports and linking all
staff on line. A Local Area Network was also implemented for the DNP. Significant improvements in the
level of automation also resulted in both the MHCP and the DNP on account of implementation of the SIIF
and other thematic information systems.
(III) PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
The project was organized in three subprojects with complementary objectives, but independent
implementing arrangements and budgets. Small Project Management Units (PMUs) in MHCP, DNP and
CGR were organized and participated actively in project design. The PMU for the MHCP consolidated
project accounts. A high level Project Coordinating Committee (COCOR), led by the Vice Minister in the
MHCP was established to provide strategic guidance and oversight. Annual work programs (POA) were
sent for the Bank's review as well as annual progress reports and project audits. UNDP and for a short
period FONADE assisted the project with procurement and management of project funds. Since project
activities related to multiple autonomous and semi-autonomous entities, coordination was sometimes
difficult. However, the implementation experience was satisfactory once coordination issues were resolved.
This required considerable direct involvement of the Bank team.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The strengthening of the revenue administration, implementation and institutionalization of the SIIF, the
establishment and strengthening of the CGN, the institutionalization of citizen participation in the work of
the CGR and the implementation of SINERGIA in DNP, have all made major institutional improvements
in the collection, management and control of public fund. The institutional development impact on
participating entities, as described in Sections 4.1 and 4.2, is, therefore, substantiaL
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The critical macro-economic situation faced by Colombia during project implementation imposed
constraints on the government that led to budget cuts for the project and delayed some of its activities,
necessitating project extension (see 5.3 below).
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was significant turn-over of financial management personnel who were trained in the SIIF as well as
of IT staff in DIAN, due to salaries which were not competitive with the private sector. Macro-economic
constraints made significant improvements in salaries difficult. Also, in the early phase of the project there
was inadequate involvement by the Directors of Budget, Public Credit and Treasury in the development of
the SIIF. A productive retreat of all the key players helped build ownership for the system amongst them
and secure their active participation in its successful development and implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project spanned three different administrations and several Vice Ministers of Finance, Directors
General of the DIAN, Sub-Directors of the DNP and Vice Controllers General. This resulted in delays in
the taking decisions, while new officials became familiar with the project. Further, the IJNDP office, which
-9-



assisted with procurement/contracting and fund management, was initially unfamiliar with Bank procedures
and took considerable time to train its staff. These factors, in addition to budget cuts, led to some slippages
that required project extension.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
See Section 3.4 and Annex 2 regarding allocation changes, and Section 5.3 regarding implementation
delays and extension. About $29.0 million of the original $30.0 million loan were disbursed.
Approximately $ 1.0 million was undisbursed due to: (i) some bidding delays in the final months of the
project; (ii) the Government's use of their own funds for some expenditures originally slated for loan
financing; and (iii) some exchange rate differences.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is highly likely in light of the strong indications of borrower commitment and ownership.
Given the serious fiscal situation faced by Colombia, reforms in revenue administration and public
expenditure management are among the top priorities of the government. This is reflected in the high
priority attached to this project and PFMP II. The Government has also demonstrated the willingness to
base critical revenue enforcement and resource allocation decisions on the objective information generated
by different tools and systems provided by the project, rather than on purely political considerations. The
government's commitment to the project was also indicated by the provisions it made in the national budget
over the life of the project (see Section 10) and for the successor project in the FY2001 budget, in spite of
the very tight fiscal situation.
The main area of concem with regard to sustainability is the remuneration structure, especially for
technical positions in tax and customs administration, financial management and information technology.
Due to higher wages for these skills in the private sector, GOC is likely to see continued high turnover.
This will require steady improvement in the pay scales, provision of non-monetary incentives and
continuous training of new staff recruited to replace departing employees.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Various systems developed under the project are already in operation and have been taken over by the
concerned line agencies. For the most part, they do not require special transition arrangements. However,
the improvements brought about by the project were only the first step in the modernization of revenue
administration and public expenditure management in Colombia. Many institutional and organizational
deficiencies, discussed in detail in the Project Appraisal Document of the PFMP-II, remain. Also the
coverage and functionality of some of the systems developed under the project need to be extended.
The PFMP II (Loan 7049-CO, approved March 22, 2001 for $35.47 million) will consolidate and extend
the reforms introduced by the PFMP-I; undertake second generation reforms in selected areas and deal with
deficiencies that have not yet been addressed. Specific follow-up activities supported by the Bank and
other donors are described below.
(I)    RESOURCE MOBILIZATION:
(a)    Revenue Administration:
(i)    Voluntary Compliance: The system for electronic filing of returns will be expanded to cover
medium and small taxpayers; its functionality will be enhanced to include payment of taxes and submission
of claims for tax refunds; the Office of the Taxpayer Ombudsman will be strengthened to provide quick
- 10 -



redress to taxpayers' problems; and efforts will be made to develop a stronger social consensus in favor of
tax compliance.
(ii)    Routine tax administration processes: The complete suite of systems to manage declarations and
payment information developed under PFMP I will be enhanced. In particular, older systems such as the
Unique Taxpayer Register and the system for accounting of tax and custom receipts will be updated with
the help of the USIRS, and a second generation version of the system for control of refunds and credits will
be developed to enhance functionality.
(iii)   Enforcement: Systems and organizational arrangements to collect covert intelligence about tax
evasion and smuggling will be developed. The SICAT and SIFARO systems for the selection of cases for
tax and customs audit will be enhanced. Improvements in the functionality of SIPAC, the tax arrears
recovery system, will be undertaken; and a system to integrate VAT invoicing via the internet will be
developed. Methodologies will be refined for measuring tax evasion and contraband and auditors will be
trained in the use of the newly developed system of external information.
(iv)   Customs Automation: Additional modules of the SIGLO XXI system to deal with imports under
special regimes, goods in transit and exports will be developed. The taxpayer current account will be
enhanced to include customs transactions. Methodologies and systems for measuring contraband will be
refined. A system for collection of external information needed to support enforcement of customs and
foreign exchange laws will be developed.
(v)    Tax Policy and Legal Framework of the Revenue Administration: Tax and customs policy,
laws and regulations will be reviewed and revised to expand the tax base, reduce distortions and further
simplify substantive and procedural provisions to reduce compliance costs and improve the legal authority
of DIAN to enforce tax and customs laws. The DIAN's ability to participate in international tax and
customs treaty negotiations will be strengthened through staff training.
(vi)   Organization and management of the DLAN: The organization and management of the DIAN
will be further strengthened through: (i) implementation of a Management Information System developed
under PFMP I at the Regional and Local levels of DIAN; (ii) implementation of an information system for
the administration of career path and professional development of DIAN staff; (iii) training of 3000 staff
in basic functions of the tax and customs administration, training of 250 staff in advanced technical
functions and specialized training of the staff of the Office of Disciplinary Investigations in effective
prevention and control of corruption; (iv) further modification of business processes in accordance with
risks highlighted in the Corruption Risk Maps developed under PFMP I; (v) review and enhancement of
the central information systems of DIAN, to ensure its ability to handle new technologies; (vi) improvement
in archives and record storage; and (vii) the carrying out a sustained communication campaign to explain
the objectives and implications of the modernization of DIAN to internal and external stakeholders in order
to gain support for the reforms.
(b) Treasury and Public Credit: PFMP II will help: (i) implement the system developed under PFMP I
to improve the capacity of Treasury to better manage its investment portfolios, including improved control
of investment transactions and optimization of return on investment; (ii) support implementation of phases
II and III of public debt management system.
II.    EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
- 11 -



(a)    Macro-programming and Formulation and Monitoring of the Budget: The new project will:
(i) assist in furither clarifying and adjusting the roles and responsibilities of entities that participate in the
programming, budgeting, execution and evaluation of public expenditures; (ii) enhance and implement
models and information systems for medium term and long term macro-economic projections and
simulations and evaluation of expenditure and revenue policies; (iii) generate consolidated economic, fiscal
and budgetary accounts of the public sector, and (iv) classify budget execution information contained in the
SIIF according to economic categories. The project will also help develop methodologies and systems to:
(i) quantify expenditures earmarked by different laws and develop options for reforms aimed at reducing
earmarking; (ii) improve revenue projections; (iii) calculate unit cost of inputs and outputs; and (iv)
improve interfaces between the information systems of the Budget Directorate of MHCP and those of the
sector ministries, to improve budget formulation and monitoring.
(b)    Budget Execution: The PFMP II will improve the control of government over actual spending by
extending the coverage of the SIIF to 145 regional offices of central government entities. The functionality
of the system will be enhanced based on user feedback. Also, to increase the coverage of the system, a
modified version of the system will be developed for implementation in decentralized entities that receive
funds from the national budget. Further, a new SIIF module will be developed to eliminate the proliferation
of accounting systems used by different projects funded by external donors and to increase control over
funds executed by these projects.
(c)    Budget Expenditures Accounting. PFMP II will improve the quality of accounting information
in public entities by: (i) supporting mechanisms for the registration and reconciliation of accounting records
covering income, debt transactions, expenditures and physical assets; (ii) supporting dissemination,
advisory services and training to improve accounting practices in public agencies; (iii) strengthening the
information systems of the CGN to capture and integrate accounting information at the national,
decentralized and territorial levels; and (iv) providing additional training to public officials in the evolving
accounting norms and practices.
(d)    Control and Evaluation: The follow on project will help improve the current version of the
information system supporting SINERGIA by including evaluation of recurrent expenditures and extending
the system to public enterprises and territorial entities. The PFMP-II will not provide additional assistance
to the CGR, which will be supported by the IDB. The project will , however, continue support for
rationalization of information flows through implementation of existing inter-institutional agreements
between MHCP, DNP, and CGR to reduce the costs of monitoring budgetary expenditures, by identifying
shared information needs and eliminating duplicate reports.
(e)    Public Procurement and Contracting: PFMP I helped prepare the procurement and contracting
component of PFMP II. This component will improve procurement and contracting practices to increase
transparency and value for money. It will assist in revising the relevant normative and institutional
framework, streamlining processes, implementing modernized information systems to disseminate
procurement opportunities, bidding documents and contract awards to the public via the internet and carry
out procurement transactions on-line.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The design of the project was appropriate for achieving the above outputs. The project was one of the few
- 12 -



projects that attempted to develop a truly integrated financial management system, including all component
parts: revenue generation, debt management, treasury operations, macro-programming, budgeting, budget
execution, accounting, audit and evaluation. At the time the loan was designed, there were few precedents
for such a comprehensive reform. There was a strong mix of the specialist skills in the early missions,
including local specialists, financed by GOC, that supported an accurate diagnosis of needs. PFMP
objectives and activities were consistent with the CAS and the Government's development strategies
(Section 3.1). They continue to be consistent as PFMP II moves toward consolidating and enhancing the
advances made to date. As already mentioned, the original allocation of project funds between consultant
services and goods needed adjustment during project execution.
7.2 Supervision:
The project benefited from stability in Bank task management (only one change in task managers during its
life, ensuring consistency of approach) and the fact that the task managers were senior, experienced, able to
offer high level technical advice, help resolve inter-ministerial coordination problems, and respond quickly
to a high volume of requests for "no objections." A problem solving approach was adopted and, together
with the national authorities, workable solutions to the difficulties encountered were found. The Bank's
own budget limitations prevented having a similar specialist skill-mix during supervision to that enjoyed
during project preparation. Nevertheless, the borrower viewed the Bank as being helpful, practical, and
flexible where needed during the course of project implementation. Project supervision reports were
comprehensive and aide memoir recorded progress and problems so they could be addressed in a timely
way. Bank supervision was, therefore, satisfactory.
7.3 OverallBank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory for the reasons stated above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. Significant progress was made
towards completion of key legislative and institutional measures. The Constitution of 1991 created the
office of the Accountant General (CGN) charged with consolidating the accounts of all levels of
government; changed the role of the Controller General from ex-ante control to ex-post audit of government
expenditures; and emphasized the establishment of modem financial administration based on efficiency and
effectiveness in public spending. These reforms were also supported by other laws and presidential
decrees that helped strengthen fiscal stability and macroeconomic coordination; introduced a new planning
framework based on increased civil society participation; provided autonomy in budget execution to
operative agencies; and introduced performance management in the public sector, thus paving the way for
activities supported by the project. In addition, GOC financed an impressive cadre of specialists in
treasury, informatics and expenditure management, who worked closely with the Bank team in preparing
the loan.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance in implementation was satisfactory. The Borrower expressed commitment
to the project in several ways mentioned above, including setting the policies and passing the laws needed to
reform the public sector and providing counterpart resources. GOC was effective and timely in meeting the
loan covenants, although the pace of implementation sometimes slowed as mentioned in Section 5.3. The
Project Coordination Units were adequately staffed and functioning throughout the life of the project and
carried out their responsibilities as agreed with the Bank.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agencies used project funding judiciously and adequately managed the work of consultants
- 13 -



and procurement. The results of their work have been impressive, per Sections 4.1 and 4.2. Their
performance is, therefore, satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory for the reasons stated above.
8. Lessons Learned
1. Achievement of complex and far-reaching institutional changes, such as those described above,
require a long time horizon to take root. This, in turn requires long-term commitment, consistency
and continuity of approach on the part of both the Bank and the Government, spanning multiple
changes of government. For this reason, PFMP II was designed to support second generation
reforms, building on progress made under PFMP I.
2. While computerization is necessary to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the Revenue
Administration and Public Expenditure Management, it is not sufficient. It is imperative to address
underlying institutional weaknesses in order to achieve lasting results. Therefore, a well-rounded
institutional development approach has to be adopted. While supporting extensive information
technology investments, it is important to deal with issues relating to normative framework,
incentives, human resources, organizational arrangements, management systems, business
processes and training.
3. Establishing a clear link between system improvements and broader social goals (e.g. transparency,
accountability and citizen participation) helps to build support for institutional reforms within the
government and improves the prospects for their sustainability.
4. Implementing a project involving autonomous agencies, like the MHCP, the DNP and the CGR,
can pose serious coordination challenges. It is important that the Coordination Committee
(COCOR) meets frequently to deal with inter-institutional issues. In order to operationalize the
decisions of the COCOR and resolve technical problems, coordination arrangements at the
technical level need to be put in place.
5. Due to their regular responsibilities, it is very difficult for line managers and staff to devote
adequate attention to longer-term modernization activities. Yet their inputs are crucial to project
success. Therefore, it is essential to create a dedicated group of individuals who are devoted full
time to implementation of project activities, but work closely with line staff.
6. For developing integrated financial management systems, such as the SIIF, it is preferable to make
a central allocation for the system as a whole, instead of allocating resources to different functional
units, like the Budget Directorate, Treasury and Accounting.
7. When a complex new information system, like the SIIF, is presented to users for acceptance, they
tend to discover additional needs that were not in the original system specifications and demand
that these be met before the system is commissioned. This can delay system implementation. For
efficient system development, a thorough requirements analysis should be done at the beginning
and agreed with users. The system meeting these requirements should be implemented as Version
1. Additional requirements, save those of an absolutely critical nature, should be incorporated in
subsequent versions of the system. Implementation of Version I should not be deferred in an
attempt to satisfy all additional needs. Projects with significant informatics components have
built-in obsolescence. Therefore, adequate provision should be made for upgrade and replacement
of software and hardware in the course of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
ENGLISH TRANSLATION
- 14 -



PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT (PFMP)
PERFORMANCE REPORT
The Public Financial Management Project (PFMP) is nearing completion and the results achieved during
its implementation are therefore described for each project component.
PFMP OBJECTIVES
The objectives of PFMP concerned three aspects:
* Creation in the public sector of a system of integrated financial management and a system of
supporting data ensuring the integrity, coherence, continuity, transparency and compatibility of public
resource management.
* Improvement of the functioning of the strategic subsystems of the financial cycle, such as evasion and
collection monitoring, budget formulation and evaluation, management of the national treasury and
general national accounting.
* Support for improved governance of Colombia. This is one of the main objectives of the project,
achieved through the national system of fiscal monitoring with emphasis on its principal organ, the
General Accounting Office of the Republic.
The project comprised the following components:
1. COMPONENTS: TAX AND NATIONAL CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION (DIAN)
The activities undertaken in the DIAN Component are summarized below:
IT Infrastructure:
New networks of power and data wiring and UPS were expanded and installed in 16 offices and 9 sites of
DIAN, introducing technological innovations and providing an infrastructure to meet new requirements and
use the latest hardware available on the market. With this platform of electrical networks and wiring,
1,600 PCs and 100 servers can be connected nationwide, thus improving worker productivity and working
conditions. These improvements will provide better network coverage for business and support areas in the
various offices, since 780 computers can be connected to the DIAN networks.
The existing data infrastructure was strengthened by technology changes and upgrades and by staff
training, by the installation of 235 pieces of WAN and LAN communication equipment, 1,586 client and
production PCs, 85 servers, 235 printers, and Microsoft administration and productivity licenses and
software. For this effort, 4,500 officials and 170 technicians were trained to use the tools.
Expansion of RAM in 1,586 production PCs and 48 development PCs enables DIAN to use new
applications such as Gestor, Sicar, Nomina, ADA, SIFARO, etc.
As part of the upgrading of Baynenworks communication equipment, additional switches, routers and
modules were installed for 5005 switches nationwide. This made it possible to expand the bandwidth from
10 mbps to 100 mbps at the primary and secondary wiring centers, improving coverage and flexibility of
tax-collection activities.
- 15 -



Coverage of the Gestor, Sifaro, SIPAC, Morosos, ADA and Salomon applications was improved,
facilitating access and monitoring of data for user areas and taxpayers. For this purpose, the UNIX
servers, 9 NCR machines and 7 IBM machines were upgraded.
Support areas:
MOISES accounting system. The provision of computer equipment and local communication networks for
administrative and financial areas made it possible to use a financial package to manage the DIAN budget,
treasury and accounting, with on-line recording and real-time processing of financial transactions for 29
offices, to replace manual recording and controlling, and to consolidate monthly data and financial
statements. This system enhances the efficiency of budget execution and the flexibility of payments to
suppliers, allows real-time monitoring of budget execution, on-time submission of financial statements and
Treasury control.
Payroll and Human Resources System. This system is installed in 45 DIAN offices in the client/server
environment and with decentralized administration and centralized payment procedures, allowing
administrative and financial areas to be provided with computer equipment and local communication
networks and prompt payroll disbursements, payments of social benefits, introduction of innovations and
quasi-fiscal contributions. The system permits better monitoring of the financial entitlements of employees
and staff.
Tax Audit: The Information System for Tax Oversight and Analysis (SICAT) was installed on 287 work
stations and 565 users in 21 offices were trained nationwide, with the result that resources were generated
for Colombia through audit activities carried out using this tool. Management efficiencies generated
$64,288,185,102 for the year 2000. SICAT is installed in 22 offices. The subprogram had the following
modules: ECOFI and ESTAD, which help to focus tax auditing; EPLAN and PISTA submodules which
help in the selection of taxpayers to be audited; GEREN module, which helps to focus tax auditing and its
possible outcomes. This module is installed only at the central level (legal entities and major taxpayers).
PERCO module, which is the basis for the execution and evaluation of audit programs and taxpayer
records over the last five years; LEGAL module, which permits on-line consultation of tax regulations.
PARAM module, which provides values for the consumer price index and gross domestic product.
Tax Collections and Recovery of Tax Arrears: Implementation of the Late Filing Planning System
(SIPAC), Migration and Elite Group, allowed systematization, automation and standardization of the
collection process at the national level. The software is installed in 8 offices, with virtual files that reduce
the size of the physical archive; it generates consistent taxpayer data, and facilitates detection and
encourages taxpayers to pay their taxes on time. As a result, it is expected that late filing will be reduced
and seized assets will be incorporated.
The tax collection process was modernized nationwide, reducing the size of the physical archive available
for ongoing consultation. In this way, checking of returns and payments was streamlined, enhancing
familiarity with the collection process.
Using the Customs Current Account system, customs administrative actions can be incorporated in the
DIAN databases in real time, reducing the size of physical files. In addition, taxpayers' account
statements can be consulted and updated continually and it is easier to evolve strategies for review of
balances and recovery of assets.
The Refunds and Offsets System (DECO) allows greater flexibility and reduces the burden of "secretarial
- 16 -



activities" in the Refunds and Offsets Unit. This system is being installed nationwide and will reduce the
time needed to answer queries and reply to taxpayers' requests and initiatives and allow adjustments in the
taxpayer's accounts with the Administration through refunds or offsetting of favorable balances.
The tax filing and payment procedure was modernized following the acquisition of computer and
communications equipment, basic software and applications, Web technology and Internet and intranet
solutions allowing activities such as electronic filing of income and sales (VAT) documents, withholdings
and payment receipts that provide consistent and timely data. The process also enables taxpayers to file
tax returns and pay their dues to the State from their residence or workplace.
A system was set up for the exchange of data between SIAT and tax documents received electronically
(point of contact e-mail account). This enables the institution to update basic data continually, to retain
documents in image form, to verify and validate information to be included in SIAT and to submit
statistical queries with control and follow-up figures.
Progress was made in automating DIAN tax data (thus reducing the size of DIAN's physical files needed
for ongoing consultation) and obtaining accurate account balances. Once they have been automated, the
data are not consulted regularly and may be relocated outside the offices. This creates an environment in
which taxpayers have confidence in the consistency and timeliness of data. Data automation has made it
possible to uncover an amount of approximately 4 billion pesos by reviewing data for the last 10 years.
The regulatory accounting system applicable to DIAN will clarify the accounting rules applicable to it and
the software to be developed. It will then be possible to generate ongoing reports on DLAN management in
terms of total collections and to update balances in real time.
As part of the project, software was developed for monitoring compliance with formal obligations, which
generates "friendly" communication between DIAN and the taxpayer, in which the taxpayer is informed of
the quality of the data provided. It is currently installed at the central level.
A system was developed for checking on the collection of the financial transaction tax, with a view to
monitoring the receipt of inputs from collections staff.
In order to verify the behavior of collections staff and to impose sanctions in the event of irregularities,
software was developed for the monitoring and supervision of banks: the SALOMON Sanctions System
and Calculation of Consignment Indexes (CINCO). This software minimizes the cost of sanctions
procedures and permits the establishment of time periods during which collections staff retain revenues.
One of the most important achievements of this system is that it verifies and ensures that revenues are
received by the Treasury in a timely manner to be used for govemment operations and social investment.
Fiscal Studies: In this area, five types of activity were undertaken. Firstly, a query system was
constructed using a data warehouse. The idea was to permit rapid and easy querying, without the
cumbersome process of going through the Informatics Unit. Another idea was to include information filters
so that figures could be reviewed statistically, by modifying values in returns showing inconsistencies.
Secondly, methodologies were devised to estimate the tax base for VAT and income tax. The estimates are
supplemented by models that permit rapid and simple calculations, while at the same time constructing
scenarios for the design of tax policy. Manuals and training are supplied for use of the models.
Thirdly, audit support was provided in two ways: by production chains and by a synthetic index. The
- 17 -



chains refer to the grouping of activities involving the largest number of purchases and sales between
them, so that flows of VAT tax debits and credits can be observed and points where sales and purchases
are concentrated and where greater fiscal control is required can be identified. Cost and sales structures
are also provided.
The synthetic index is an audit program involving the integration of indexes breaking down
Administrations by economic activity and indexes selecting on the basis of normal behaviors for each
economic activity. This work is supplemented by a guide for auditors.
Fourthly, figures for contraband and contraband routes are estimated. PFMP consultants made an
estimate based on demand elasticities and a survey of customs officials, customs agents and labor unions.
This work is part of a series of activities undertaken in the Survey Division.
Fifthly, specialized technical training is provided in the form of cards to train staff in the actual work of
the Survey Office. The commitment is to complete the cards on the subjects of national accounts, fiscal
theory and research methodology. The goal is to enhance the analytical skills and capacity of the Office
staff.
Customs: The SIGLO XXI Customs Project involved a series of activities to improve, adapt and integrate
all operations relating to customs administration. Information management solutions were provided for
on-line transactions. There were clear benefits, among which mention may be made of: streamlining and
enhanced timeliness of operations, since the system can be accessed seven days a week and 24 hours a day;
less discretionality in the exercise of customs functions, through monitoring based on risk profiles and
supported by data application; standardization of procedures and greater transparency of transactions;
specialization in the functions of customs users, since this ensures that they will fulfill their obligations
under the system; decrease in material errors, primarily in documents processing; improvement in the
monitoring of fulfillment of obligations by the customs authority, specifically in the declaration and
payment of duties; greater control by customs users of their own performance and by others involved in the
chain of international trade; creation of the quality chain concept, whereby external actors become active
subjects of the process of evaluation and improvement of customs services and controls; standardization of
user registration and control activities; strengthening of the technological capacity of customs users, giving
them access to numerous alternative uses of the infrastructure installed; improvement of the premises and
of the computer and communications infrastructure of the customs administration.
The ADA system guarantees proper warehouse management and disposal of merchandise seized,
confiscated and abandoned for the benefit of the nation. The system also makes it possible to record goods
arriving in and departing from specific depots for that purpose. Another advantage of the system is that it
facilitates the organization, recording and monitoring of the disposal of goods and the liquidation process.
The SIFARO system is installed in all customs and foreign exchange administrations with computerized
infrastructure. The system has made it possible to review sources of customs data so as to improve the
quality of monitoring programs and make arrangements for local dissemination of customs information.
2. MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT (MHCP)
As far as this component is concerned, the goal of the project for the modernization of public financial
management was to create a data infrastructure for decisions on the management of public resources that
will guarantee integrity, coherence, continuity and compatibility in the production, processing and
presentation of data and results, as well as better management of issues such as the public debt and budget
- 18 -



execution. This goal was covered by the component through the following subcomponents:
Public credit: The PFMP project assisted in the creation of machinery to strengthen resource utilization
and management. Basically, an information system was created for the public debt, strengthening of the
general management of public credit, debt management in the territorial administrations and an auditing
system for public debt databases. In order to develop the infonnation system, the project supplied
equipment to strengthen the data network in the department of public credit, and software and hardware
were acquired to update and validate existing databases by redesigning the process. The division's
comprehensive needs were identified and the division itself was able to evaluate the SIGADE system,
revealing the need for additional software developments to provide complete coverage for all functions.
After identifying requirements and drafting a paper on functional needs, a logical design was produced of
improvements to enable the SIGADE system to become operational in the second stage of the project.
Because of the need for suitable staff, personnel training and consulting took place in order to identify
problems and possible solutions. The result was a better communication flow and reliable information on
the public debt; the Government was able to monitor the public debt and know its obligations. The
improvement in the organizational climate is also noteworthy. Procedure manuals were produced, giving
quality benchmarks and process management benchmarks for the public credit division. In addition, there
was improved awareness of the indebtedness of the territorial administrations. All these processes are
essential for future initial uploading of SIGADE data.
Macroeconomic pro2ramminn: Linkages were established between the total data of the subsystems that
make up the overall system of public financial management, with vast improvements in the
macroprogramming of public spending. For this purpose, methodologies were developed on the basis of
studies conducted in the various sectors of the economy. Computer applications were developed for the use
of accounting data from the Colombian public sector and accounting data from the public accounting sector
was made compatible with DANE data requirements. In the development of information systems, a cash
basis (Operaciones Efectivas de Caja, OEC), system was formulated that is useful for reports on budget
execution. During the development of analytical tools, methodology was devised for the quarterly issuance
of national accounts statistics, giving more accurate measurements and political economy indexes and
reliable data from projection results.
Treasury: Under the project, tools were created for centralized management of the investment of liquid
funds from the public financial systems. These tools include the treasury investment portfolio system,
which reduces opportunity costs for the management of Treasury resources and generates additional data to
define cash flows. This has resulted in technical financial efficiency, greater fiscal discipline and
transparency of execution. In order to achieve the desired strengthening, staff had to be trained in
investment portfolio management systems and in the legal data management system, which had to be made
operationally efficient and run by better trained and better informed staff. Treasury activities are related to
the development of SIIF, which has a module for the management of the Single National Account; through
the Account's transactions and procedures, all obligations assumed under the national budget can be paid
and tax receipts can be controlled, with statements of funds. Another achievement was the reduction of
average balances in the accounts of government agencies and commercial banks.
Bud2et: Improvements were made in the monitoring, handling and recording of public spending, with data
provided to administrations on budgeting practices, budget execution and recording. As part of the project,
the Government enacted the Expenditure Rationalization Law, which focused on management of the budget
for all government agencies. This government tool is used to analyze institutional weaknesses and spending
policies in order to produce suggestions for the Government. Budget monitoring and evaluation are based
- 19 -



on management and development indexes, which show how government resources have been used. The
GESTIONE system, in which DNP was involved, promotes efficient monitoring of the education sector by
providing more reliable data to project costs of active and retired staff in that sector. Consultancies
pernitted monitoring of contingent liabilities. They also covered the topic of budget sectors and comprised
a whole technical study on national budget management indexes. Together with SIIF, this will strengthen
the system of comanagement by this office.
Accounting: General accounting was consolidated within the civil service. The accounting office has been
preparing the nation's overall balance sheet since 1995. All government bodies follow the same accounting
policy, issuing annual consolidated balance sheets for the national Government. As a result, the necessary
accounting, budgetary and fiscal data for the public sector are available on line in real time. Under tile
modemization policies, accounts management was decentralized and standardized. Public accounting was
organized as an integrated system in a single database.
MHCP Information Systems Unit: The infrastructure of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit was
upgraded to provide the necessary technological support enabling systems to function efficiently. The
network was installed in the Ministry and is generating reports on fnancial activities and permitting on-line
communication among all staff inside the Ministry. A data-oriented culture was promoted by involving
users in systems development and training staff to use the new tools. The software created for the Ministry
was designed to meet its needs and the needs of the nation.
Integrated Financial Information System (SIIF): The system introduced under the project modernized
the country's financial management system in order to achieve transparency, efficiency and decentralized
management of public resources. The SIIF information program is a system of computerized data required
to provide effective and efficient support for financial administration, guaranteeing consistent data and
timely, uniform and rational information flows. Other outcomes closely related with the start-up of the
system are public resource management conducted economically, efficiently and transparently, monitoring
of resources and public spending, introduction of integrated accounting in the administrations, guarantees
of compliance with the obligations of national budget administrations and availability of real and timely
indexes for management evaluation and control. The design, development and testing of software for SIIF
resulted in the creation of the system module (receipts, expenditures, annual cash flow plan, single national
account, accounting, interfaces and administration); the treasury planning module is in its final phase prior
to implementation. The modules described above resulted in more homogeneous and timely management of
data, optimal use of resources and ease of monitoring. Currently 46 national administrations are able to
prepare their budgets on line. In addition, the management of administrations can obtain budget execution
data quickly for their decision-making. Staff training was extremely important during the implementation
and start-up of the system. Courses and seminars were held, manuals, cards and leaflets were prepared for
distribution and a data-oriented culture was thus gradually created. This clarified the division of
responsibilities within the user entity and facilitated internal communication between the financial area and
the other units through efficient use of technological resources.
3. NATIONAL PLANNING DEPARTMENT (DNP)
PERFORMANCE REPORT FOR THE PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(PFMP I)
By implementing the components of the Public Financial Management Project entrusted to it, the National
Planning Department has strengthened its institutional capacity to discharge its duties as the body
responsible for managing public resources. Especially noteworthy are the successes registered with respect
to macroeconomic planning, budgeting of public investrnent, allocation of territorial transfers, public policy
- 20 -



evaluation, and information systems for budgetary and financial management and control of public
investments.
These achievements are reflected in the outcomes described below for each component for which DNP was
responsible:
Macroeconomic analysis. Macroeconomic analysis and modeling tools were developed with a view to
improving institutional capacity and the quality of information flows for macroeconomic programming.
Support was provided to develop models facilitating analysis of the behavior of macroeconomic variables,
including computable general real and financial equilibrium models, a computable general equilibrium
model reflecting real rigidities (for trade policy analysis), a fiscal projection model, and a macroeconomic
consistency model (RMSM-X). In addition, staff received specialized training in these areas and funding
was provided for the periodic publication of current economic indicators.
Other activities focused on strengthening information systems, particularly those needed for economic
policy decision-making. These include systems for generating leading indicators, preparing social
accounting matrices, monitoring real economic activity, producing quarterly supply-based and
demand-based GDP estimates, monitoring public finances, and updating national accounts. The PMFP
also financed the purchase of information system support equipment.
Budget. Another project objective was to help rationalize financial management by strengthening systems
that monitor budget execution and financial performance and improving management of entities' financial
surpluses. The results achieved in this regard are outlined below.
Firstly, the initial phase was completed for the development of the Public Investment Information System
(SUIP), which involves designing a system for integrating the budgetary processes managed by DNP.
Bids have been invited for the design of the system, to be implemented under PMFP II.
Progress was also made in measuring the quality, efficiency, and effectiveness of public expenditures;
evaluating Colombia's budgeting processes; establishing monitoring indicators to measure the impact of
central government investments; developing plans for rationalizing the education sector and monitoring and
generating financial projections for the electric power sector; and devising methodologies for developing
sectoral indicators.
Results achieved with regard to investment planning include improving methodologies for formulating and
evaluating projects of the Project Bank and strengthening the management of information systems for
external borrowing and budget monitoring. Of particular note is the support provided for the efforts of
DNP and CGR to monitor public expenditures with the aim of implementing a unified system for
monitoring expenditures of and managing government entities. As a parallel measure, human resources
were strengthened through staff participation in national and international seminars.
Finally, funding was provided to purchase computer equipment needed to streamline data processing and
management of the large volume of information required. In addition, follow-up reviews were issued on
investments and public finances, as were analyses of budget execution for investments in the water,
cultural, recreation and sports, education, and employment sectors.
Territorial transfers. Under the PFMP, DNP was able to restructure the Unit for Territorial Development
(as called for in Law 60 of 1993), entrusting it with responsibility for establishing procedures for the
allocation, payment, and control of territorial transfers.
- 21 -



Specifically, the results achieved focused on promoting the implementation of Law 60 of 1993, helping
strengthen local finances, improving capacity for monitoring and evaluating transfers, and ensuring the
consistency of information systems relating to territorial entities.
In addition, staff responsible for managing the decentralization process were able to strengthen their skills
by attending meetings for territorial authorities, seminars to update their skills, and seminars on fiscal
decentralization. Management training provided to staff, along with training on software facilitating
infornation system consolidation and management and on tools for evaluating and managing the tasks of
territorial entities supplied strategic support for achieving project objectives.
With development of the territorial information system on the horizon, DNP's technical and technological
capacity was bolstered via equipment purchases and, in support of the management of territorial entities,
assistance was provided for the distribution of booklets containing guidelines on the operation Law 60 of
1993 and of guides on how to strengthen local development.
Control and evaluation. During the project preparation stage, it was decided that one key objective was to
assist the National Planning Department in designing a properly functioning, self-sustaining national results
and management evaluation system for the public sector. Accordingly, the PFMP helped the National
Planning Department to conceptualize, design, and strengthen what is now known as the Results-Oriented
Management Evaluation Directorate (DEGR).
The results of this effort are as follows: Firstly, DEGR was organized and became operational, and the
National System for Evaluation of Results of Public Sector Performance (SINERGIA), which supports the
national evaluation system and currently covers 170 national entities, was designed. The System focuses
on all institutional objectives, which correspond to the sectoral objectives set out in the National
Development Plan. The next step will see the extension of the System to the decentralized and territorial
levels.
Another achievement was the systematization of evaluations of policies, plans, programs, and projects.
The annual reports DNP provides to CONPES and the Congress are now presented in a different form
reflecting the evaluation criteria established by SINERGIA. To this end, information strategies were
devised focusing on objectives, indicators, and performance. A number of ex-post strategic evaluations
were conducted, including those on the Regional Councils on Economic and Social Planning (CORPES),
the Magdalena Medio highway, and water and basic sanitation projects.
Arrangements were also put in place to monitor and evaluate public sector entities. The basic manual
established for this purpose is the Indicative Plan, which contains basic norms and criteria (indicators and
performance) developed when the Efficiency Agreement was designed.
Systematic internal evaluations of public sector entities were also introduced, and seminars were held
enabling most entities to strengthen their capacity to design, monitor, and evaluate their Indicative Plan.
Assistance was also provided to boost technological capacity for this purpose, via the acquisition of
computers and training for staff at national and international seminars.
PFMP I initiated preparations for the contracting and public procurement component of PFMP II, as
follows: assistance for the preparation of regulations relating to the draft amendment to Law 80; a study
of contracting and government procurement arrangements not covered by Law 80; design of a system for
monitoring and evaluating contracting practices; design and implementation of a strategy for harnessing
- 22 -



computer and communications technology to improve government contracting and disseminating
information on bidding procedures and public contracts that have been awarded; and, finally,
implementation of a training program to inform civil servants of existing conceptual and legal tools and
technical issues involved in the contracting process.
Strenuthenina information systems. Special emphasis was placed on activities to ensure coordination for
components for which both the Ministry of Finance and DNP are responsible, particularly on matters
relating to the Integrated Financial Management Information System (SIIF). SIIF is now up and running in
parallel with DNP's Financial Division.
Project outputs include the strengthening of the Division with information systems and equipment for
accounting and treasury management in order to prepare it for SIIF implementation; agreement with the
Ministry of Finance to include DNP's budget execution monitoring and evaluation requirements in the
SIIF design; participation in surveys to gather data for the design of SIIF modules for entities responsible
for budget execution; and identification of the data to be transmitted to DNP via SIIF for budget
monitoring.
In addition, a number of steps were taken to strengthen DNP's data network, including acquisition of
server software; acquisition of the operating system for workstations and applications software;
acquisition of two servers for the DNP network; installation of a fiber optic backbone; and acquisition of
network administration software.
OFFICE OF AUDITOR GENERAL OF THE REPUBLIC (CGR)
PERFORMANCE REPORT FOR THE PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(PFMP-CGR)
The expenditure component of the PFMP included an external control subcomponent for which CGR was
responsible. The following results were achieved:
PFMP helped to transform the General Accounting Office of the Republic into a center of excellence on
financial control matters.
Establishment of social control. The project set the stage for creating a structure and culture for citizen
participation in the financial control process. Training for CGR staff provided them with required skills and
fostered greater citizen involvement in the institution's work, forging links between Territorial
Comptrollers' Offices. As to CGR's structure, the use of new tools such as complaints and grievances
software and the introduction of citizen watchdog committees paved the way for decentralizing activities to
the various entities, thereby enhancing efficiency and strengthening auditing processes and sectoral studies.
Project assistance to update CGR's technological capacity led to the creation of an institutional intranet.
Dissemination of social controL Interaction between CGR staff and the populace brought the institution
closer to Colombia's citizens. The establishment of research centers and dissemination of documentation
on citizen participation in financial control equipped citizens to take well-founded action, thereby enhancing
their ability to play an important interactive role in monitoring government resources.
At the territorial level, a strategy for coordination between CGR and the Territorial Comptrollers' Offices
was formulated and led to the design of SIT, a system enabling them to communicate with one another.
Trainin2 of a system-wide auditor. The project prompted a shift in "culture" among audit personnel,
- 23 -



improving receptivity among audited entities and enhancing citizen trust of the auditor's work.
Dissemination of the new control discourse. This effort enabled CGR to position itself as facilitator of
the Government's work to ensure the efficient and effective execution of public expenditures. To this end,
instruments were developed to provide operational support to help CGR carry out its mission, including
risk maps (the SIRI system), government procurement mechanisms (the SICE system), and regulatory
guidelines to facilitate proper fiscal oversight in the legal sphere (the SINOR system).
WORLD BANK AND GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE WITH RESPECT TO PROJECT
DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
PFMP is consistent with the policies contained in the Colombian Government's development plan and with
the Bank's policies to promote development and modernize the State. Throughout project implementation
and execution, the Colombian Government, as borrower, complied with World Bank regulations with
respect to disbursements, recruitment, procurement of goods, and adherence to indicators established in the
SAR in the early stages of project development. The World Bank, as lender, provided the support required
throughout project implementation and execution, remaining in constant contact by conducting supervision
missions focusing on the various project components. This supervision was provided by a highly qualified
team, enabling valuable lessons to be learned in preparation for the second phase of the project.
IMPACT OF THE PROJECT ON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
The project had a significant impact, enabling the Government of Colombia's management of public
finances to become more transparent, consistent, and efficient. The computer applications that were
created were particularly impressive: the systems developed to manage tax recovery, oversight, collections,
and refunds provided DIAN with SICAT; electronic filing capability and a taxpayer current account
system were developed; and SIGLO XX facilitated the processing of customs declarations and the
management and sale of confiscated goods. Computer tools also were created to track cash transactions,
thereby enabling the Government to monitor the cash deficit. The Commission for the Rationalization of
Public Expenditures has been a major source of input for policy reform in the areas of pensions,
transparency, and privatization. The Integrated Financial Information Management System (SIIF) and the
General Accounting Office established new standards for the management of government finances.
PFMP II. PFMP II will provide continuity for activities currently under way as part of the strategy to
strengthen the management capacity of entities responsible for transactions involving public resources.
Steps will be taken to extend the use of tools already developed for tax recovery, taxpayer current account
reporting, oversight, persuasive and coactive tax collection, and tax refunds. To this end, the project will
support the establishment of methodologies conducive to a more reliable budget formulation process, as
regards both revenue and public expenditures. Assistance will also be provided to develop - through SIIF
- reliable data on the country's public sector national accounts. PFMP II will also enhance the reliability
of budget planning and facilitate more objective evaluations of the results of entities' management efforts;
foster expansion of the current account systems managed by DLAN; assist in strengthening management
capacity within DIAN; and support the Colombian Government's efforts to modernize the regulatory
framework for government contracting.
ORIGINAL SPANISH VERSION
PROYECTO DE MODERNIZACION DE LA ADMINISTRACION FINANCIERA DEL
SECTROR PUBLICO- MAFP
- 24 -



INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO MODERNIZACION DE LA
ADMINISTRACION FINANCIERA DEL SECTOR PUBLICO MAFP
El Proyecto de Modernizaci6n de la Administraci6n Financiera del Sector Publico - MAFP, llega a su
finalizaci6n, por tal raz6n cada componente que integra el proyecto presenta el desarrollo obtenidos
durante su ejecuci6n.
El componente MHCP lo integran dos grandes subcomponentes gasto representado por MHCP y el recaudo
por la DIAN.
COMPONENTE: DIRECCION DE IMPUESTOS Y ADUANAS NACIONALES - DIAN.
El siguiente resumen hace una relaci6n de las actividades desarrolladas en el Componente DLAN.
INFORMATICO:
Se ampliaron e instalaron nuevas Redes de Cableado E1ectrico, Estructurado y UPS utilizadas en 16
Administraciones y 9 sitios de la DIAN, generando un cambio tecnol6gico y dotando de infraestructura
acorde con los nuevos requerimientos y hardware disponibles en el mercado. Con esta plataforma de redes
electricas y de cableado se pueden conectar 1.600 microcomputadores y 100 servidores a nivel nacional,
pudiendo mejorar las condiciones de productividad y ambiente de trabajo para los funcionarios. La
ampliaci6n permite tener una mayor cobertura de redes para las areas de negocio y apoyo en las distintas
administraciones, con la posibilidad de conectar 780 computadoras a las redes de la DIAN.
Se fortaleci6 la infraestructura informatica existente mediante el cambio y actualizaci6n de tecnologia y
capacitaci6n del recurso humano, la instalaci6n de 235 equipos de comunicaciones para redes WAN y
LAN, 1586 microcomputadores cliente y de producci6n, 85 servidores, 235 impresoras, licencias y
software de administraci6n y productividad de Microsoft. Para todo esto se capacit6 a 4500 funcionarios y
170 ingenieros en el uso de las herramientas.
La ampliaci6n de memoria RAM en 1586 microcomputadores de producci6n y 48 de desarrollo, permite
atender nuevas aplicaciones de la DIAN como Gestor, Sicat, Nomina, ADA, SIFARO, etc.
En la actualizaci6n de equipos de comunicaciones Baynenworks, se instalaron switches, enrutadores y
m6dulos adicionales para los switches 5005 a nivel nacional. Esto permiti6 ampliar el ancho de banda de
10 mbps a 100 mbps en los centros de cableado principales y secundarios, creando una mayor cobertura y
agilidad en las funciones propias del recaudo de los tributos.
Mayor la cobertura de las aplicaciones: Gestor, Sifaro, SIPAC, Morosos, ADA, y Salom6n, facilitando el
acceso y control de la informaci6n para las areas usuarias y contribuyentes. Para lograr lo anterior se
ampliaron los servidores UNIX, 9 maquinas NCR y 7 maquinas IBM.
AREAS DE APOYO:
Sistema contable MOISES. Mediante la dotaci6n a las areas administrativas y fmancieras de equipos de
computo y redes locales de comunicaci6n, se contrat6 un paquete financiero para el manejo del
presupuesto, tesoreria y contabilidad de la DIAN, teniendo un registro en linea y un tiempo real de las
transacciones financieras para 29 administraciones; la sustituci6n de procesos de registro y control manual
y la consolidaci6n de la informaci6n y estados financieros mensuales. Con este sistema se tiene una mayor
eficiencia en la ejecuci6n del presupuesto y agilidad en el pago de proveedores, control de la ejecuci6n
presupuestal en tiempo real, prestaci6n de los estados financieros dentro de los plazos establecidos y
control de Tesoreria.
- 25 -



Sistema de N6mina y Recursos Humanos. Este sistema se encuentra instalado en 45 administraciones de
las DIAN en el ambiente cliente servidor y con administraci6n descentralizada y procesos de liquidaci6n
centralizados, permitiendo dotar a las areas administrativas y financieras de equipos de computo y redes
locales de comunicaci6n y genera oportunidad en el pago de la nomina, prestaciones sociales, atenci6n de
novedades y aportes parafiscales. Con el sistema se logra tener un mayor control sobre los derechos
econ6micos de los empleados y funcionarios.
FISCALIZACION:
Se instal6 el Sistema de Informaci6n para el Control y Analisis Tributario - SICAT - en 287 estaciones de
trabajo y se capacito a 565 usuarios en 21 administraciones a nivel nacional, generando recursos para el
pais a traves de los programas de fiscalizaci6n realizados con esta herramienta. El recaudo por gesti6n
efectiva para el afio 2.000 fue de $64.288.185.102. El Sicat se encuentra instalado en 22
administraciones. En el subproyecto se desarrollaron los siguientes m6dulos: ECOFly ESTAD , que
ayudan a la orientaci6n de la fiscalizaci6n tributaria; Submodulos EPLANy PISTA, que ayudan en la
selecci6n de contribuyentes a fiscalizar; Modulo GEREN, el cual ayuda a la orientaci6n de la fiscalizaci6n
tributaria y sus posibles resultados. Este modulo se encuentra instalado iuicamente en el Nivel Central,
Personas Juridicas y Grandes Contribuyentes. Modulo PERCO, sirve de base para la ejecuci6n y
evaluaci6n de programas de fiscalizaci6n y la hoja de vida fiscal del contribuyente en los filtimos 5 ainos;
Modulo LEGAI, que permite la consulta en linea del estatuto tributario. Modulo PARAM, que consulta
valores Indice Precios al Consumidor y Producto Intemo Bruto.
RECAUDO Y COBRANZAS
Se desarroll6 el sistema de Planeaci6n de la cartera morosa - SIPAC - Migraci6n y Grupo Elite, que
permite la sistematizaci6n, automatizaci6n y estandarizaci6n del proceso de cobro a nivel nacional. El
software se encuentra instalado en 8 administraciones, contando con expedientes virtuales que reducen el
tamafio del archivo fisico, generando informaci6n consiente del contribuyente, ademAs de facilita la
detecci6n y disuade al contribuyente a estar al dia con la Naci6n. Con lo anterior se espera una reducci6n
de la Cartera Morosa y la incorporaci6n de bienes producto de embargos.
Se logr6 modemizar el Proceso de Cobro a los Contribuyentes a Nivel Nacional, pudiendo reducir el
tamafio del archivo fisico disponible para consultas permanentes. , y asi agilizar la detecci6n de
declaraciones y pagos, y garantizar el mejor conocimiento del proceso del recaudo.
Con el sistema de Cuenta Corriente Aduanera se puede incorporar Actos Administrativos Aduaneros a las
Bases de Datos de la DIAN en tiempo real reduciendo el tamafio de expedientes fisicos. Tambien se puede
consultar y actualizar permanentemente los estados de cuenta de los contribuyentes y facilitar el desarrollo
de estrategias para depuraci6n de saldos y recuperaci6n de cartera.
Mediante el Sistema de Devoluciones y Compensaciones -DECO- se logra una mayor agilidad en las
actuaciones, reducir la carga de "actividades secretariales" al Grupo de Devoluciones y Compensaciones.
Este sistema se encuentra en procesos de instalaci6n a nivel nacional, el cual permitira reducir el tiempo de
consulta y respuesta a la solicitud y tramite del contribuyente y ademas le permite el ajuste de la
contabilidad del contribuyente en la Entidad mediante la devoluci6n o compensaci6n de saldos a favor.
La modernizaci6n del Proceso de Declaraci6n y Pago de Impuestos permiti6 la adquisici6n de equipos de
Computo y comunicaciones, software de base y aplicativos, tecnologia WEB y soluci6n de Intemet e
intranet lograndose el desarrollo de actividades como: declaraci6n electr6nica de documentos de renta,
venta (IVA), retenciones y recibos de pago, permitiendo tener una informaci6n consiente y oportuna. El
proceso permite tambien que los contribuyentes puedan presentar desde su sitio de residencia o de trabajo
las declaraciones y pagos de sus obligaciones con el Estado.
- 26 -



Se creo el sistema de informaci6n para el intercambio de datos entre el SIAT y los documentos tributarios
recibidos electronicamente - Buz6n Punto de Contacto -, que permite a la instituci6n actualizar
permanentemente la informaci6n basica, conservar la imagen de documentos, verificar y validar la
informaci6n que se integra al SIAT y disponer de consultas estadisticas con cifras de control y seguimiento.
Se logro avanzar en el proceso de sistematizaci6n de la informaci6n de impuestos de la DIAN y en los
procesos de obtenci6n de saldos correctos de contabilidad. Lo anterior permiti6 reducir el tamafio de los
archivos fisicos de consulta permanente d la DIAN. Una vez son sistematizados, no son consultados
regularnente y pueden reubicar en areas diferentes a las oficinas. Esto perrnite generar un ambiente de
confianza a los contribuyentes respecto a la consistencia y oportunidad de la informaci6n. Con el proceso
de sistematizaci6n de la informaci6n se ha detectado un monto cercano a los 4 mil millones de pesos por
depurar informaci6n de los iultimos 10 anos.
Mediante el sistema contable con reglamentaci6n aplicable a la DIAN se podra ofrecer claridad en la reglas
contables aplicables a la entidad y para el software que se construya. Esto permitira generar reportes
permanentes de la gesti6n de la DIAN en terminos del total recaudado y actualizar los saldos en tiempo
real.
A traves del proyecto se desarrollo el software sobre el control del cumplimiento de la obligaciones
formales, que genera una comunicacion "amigable" entre la DLAN y el contribuyente en donde se notifica a
este ultimo sobre la calidad e la informaci6n suministrada. Actualmente se encuentra instalado en el nivel
central.
Se desarrollo un sistema de control de recaudo del impuesto a las transacciones financieras pudiendose
monitorear el cumplimiento de los aportes respectivos por las entidades recaudadoras.
Para poder conocer el comportamiento de las entidades recaudadoras y para su respectiva sanci6n en caso
de irregularidades, se desarroll6 un software para el monitoreo y control de los bancos - Regimen
sancionatorio SALOMON- y - Calculo de Indice de Consignaci6n- CINCO. Con este software se puede
se puede minimizar el costo de los procesos sancionatorio y permite establecer tiempos de permanencia
del recaudo en poder de las entidades recaudadoras. Una de las operaciones mas importante de este sistema
es que controla y asegura que los recaudos lleguen oportunamente al fisco para la operaci6n del estado y la
inversion social.
ESTUDIOS ECONOMICOS
Para esta area se desarrollaron cinco lineas de trabajo, asi:
En la primera, se construy6 un sistema de consulta con base en bodega de datos. La idea de utilizar este
sistema era permitir unas consultas rapidas y faciles, sin la engorrosa utilizaci6n de los servicios de la
unidad informatica. Una segunda idea era lograr que la informaci6n tuviera filtros que permitieran depurar
las cifras desde el punto de vista estadistico, es decir, modificando valores de las declaraci6n en los cuales
pudiera presentarse inconsistencias.
La segunda area tiene que ver con el desarrollo de metodologias para estimar la base gravable de los
impuestos de IVA y renta. Los estimativos estan complementados con modelos que permiten realizar los
calculos de manera rapida y sencilla, al tiempo que permiten la construcci6n de escenarios para disefio de
politicas de tributaci6n. A lo anterior se suman los manuales y capacitaci6n para manejo de los modelos.
- 27 -



La tercera area corresponde a Apoyo a Fiscalizaci6n. Este apoyo se venido brindando de dos maneras: en
primer lugar, cadenas productivas; en segundo lugar, indicador sintetico. Lo primero se refiere a la
agrupaci6n de aquellas actividades que mas compras y mas ventas tienen entre si, lo cual permite en IVA
observar flujos de debitos y cr&ditos fiscales, ademAs de los puntos de concentraci6n de ventas y compras,
en donde se debe ejercer un mayor control fiscal. Tambien ofrecen estructuras de costos y ventas.
El indicador sintetico es un programa de fiscalizaci6n que tiene que ver con la integraci6n de indicadores
que diseccionan por actividad econ6mica en las Administraciones, e indicadores que seleccionan a partir de
comportamientos normales segun actividad econ6mica. Esta labor esta complementada con una guia para
los auditores.
La cuarta area de trabajo corresponde a estimaci6n de cifras de contrabando y sus rutas. Los consultores
de MAFP realizaron un trabajo de estimaci6n con base en elasticidades de demanda y una encuesta
aplicada a funcionarios aduaneros, agentes de aduana y gremios. Esta metodologia forma parte de un
grupo de trabajos realizados en la Divisi6n de Estudios.
El uiltimo de los trabajos se refiere a Formaci6n Tecnica Especializada. La participaci6n en este trabajo
consiste en la elaboraci6n de algunas cartillas para preparar a los funcionarios en el trabajo propio de la
Oficina de Estudios. El compromiso adquirido es terminar las cartillas correspondientes a Cuentas
Nacionales, Teoria Fiscal y Metodologia de Investigaci6n. Con esto se busca un aumento en la eficiencia y
capacidad de analisis de los funcionarios de la Oficina.
ADUANAS
El Proyecto Aduanas SIGLO XXI ha desarrollado a traves del proyecto una serie de servicios que ha
permitido mejorar, ajustar e integrar todas las operaciones relacionadas con la administraci6n aduanera. El
sistema SIGLO XXI, a proporcionado soluciones informaticas para la ejecuci6n de los tramites en linea,
mostrando claros impactos dentro de los cuales podemos destacar, la ejecuci6n de las operaciones de
manera agil y oportuna gracias al acceso al sistema siete dias a la semana y 24 horas del dia, La
disminuci6n de la discrecionalidad en el ejercicio de las funciones aduaneras, mediante el ejercicio de
controles con base en perfiles de riesgos y con el apoyo de la aplicaci6n informatica; la estandarizaci6n
en los procesos y mayor transparencia en los tramites; especializaci6n de las funciones de los usuarios
aduaneros ya que se garantiza el desarrollo de sus obligaciones a traves del sistema; disminuci6n de los
errores formales principalmente en el diligenciamiento de los documentos; mejoramiento en el control al
cumplimiento de las obligaciones por parte de la autoridad aduanera y especificamente a la declaraci6n y
pago de tributos; mayor control por parte de los usuarios aduaneros, a la gesti6n propia y de los otros
actores de la cadena del comercio intemacional; creaci6n del concepto de cadena de calidad, mediante el
cual, los actores extemos se convierten en sujetos activos del proceso de evaluaci6n y mejoramiento del
servicio y control aduanero; normalizaci6n de las acciones de registro y control de los usuarios;
robustecimiento de la capacidad tecnol6gica de los usuarios aduaneros, lo que les abre las puertas a
muiltiples usos altemativos de la infraestructura instalada; mejoramiento de la infraestructura locativa,
informatica y telemAtica de la administraci6n de aduanas.
El sistema ADA, permite garantizar una adecuada gesti6n de almacenamiento y disposici6n de mercancias
aprehendidas, decomisadas y abandonadas a favor de la naci6n. El sistema ademas permite el registro del
ingreso y salida de mercancias de los dep6sitos determinados pam tal efecto. Otra ventaja del sistema es
facilitar el desarrollo, registro y control de los eventos de enajenaci6n de mercancias asi como facilitar el
proceso de liquidaci6n.
El sistema SIFARO, se encuentra en todas las administraciones aduaneras y cambiarias con
infraestructura computacional.. El sistema ademas a pernitido depurar las fuentes de datos de
- 28 -



informaci6n aduanera en procura de mejorar la calidad de los programas de fiscalizaci6n. Generar los
mecanismos para distribuir a nivel local la informaci6n aduanera, es otro de las ventajas que arroja el
sistema.
MINISTERIO DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
El proyecto de modemizaci6n de la administraci6n de las finanzas publicas, en lo que tiene que ver con este
componente, busc6 crear una infraestructura de informaci6n para las decisiones del manejo de recursos
piiblicos, que garantizaran la integridad, la coherencia, la continuidad y la compatibilidad en la
producci6n, el tratamiento y la presentaci6n de los datos y resultados; asi como un manejo mas adecuado
de temas como la deuda puiblica y la ejecuci6n del presupuesto.. Estos objetivos han sido cubiertos por el
componente a traves de los diferentes subcomponentes que lo integran tales como:
CREDITO PUBLICO
El Proyecto MAFP, contribuy6 en la creaci6n de mecanismos que buscaran fortalecer la ejecucion y
manejo de los recursos. Dichos mecanismos estan enfocados en crear un sistema de informaci6n para la
deuda puiblica, fortalecimiento de la direcci6n general de credito publico, manejo de la deuda en las
entidades territoriales y un sistema de auditoria sobre las bases de datos de la deuda puiblica. En el
desarrollo del sistema de informaci6n, el proyecto suministro equipos para el fortalecimiento de la red
informatica a la direcci6n de credito publico, se adquiri6 software y hardware para actualizar y validar las
base de datos existentes, realizando una tarea de redisefno, de este proceso se identificaron los
requerimientos integrales de dicha direcci6n, que le permitieron a la misma evaluar el sistema SIGADE,
encontrando la necesidad de hacer desarrollos adicionales a dicho software que le permitan cubrir el total
de sus funciones , es asi que identificando y estructurando un documento de requerimientos funcionales, se
procedi6 a hacer el disefio l6gico de las mencionadas mejoras que le permitirin al sistema SIGADE entrar
en funcionamiento en la segunda etapa del proyecto.
La necesidad de contar con personal id6neo, llevo a que se capacitaran funcionarios y se realizaran
consultorias para diagnosticar y dar las posibles soluciones. Los resultados obtenidos se reflejan en, una
mejora en el flujo de comunicaciones, confiabilidad de la informaci6n sobre la deuda publica, ademas del
gobiemo contar con un seguimiento sobre la deuda del pais y saber cual es son las obligaciones. La
mejora en el clima organizacional otro factor de enfatizar, se crearon manuales de procedimientos y
funcionen indicadores de calidad, indicadores de gesti6n de procesos de la direcci6n de credito pu.blico.
Por otro lado se mejor6 el conocimiento del endeudamiento de las entidades territoriales, procesos todos
indispensables para la futura carga inicial de la infornaci6n SIGADE.
PROGRAMACION MACROECONOMICA
Se establecieron nexos entre la informaci6n total de los subsistemas que conforman el sistema general
de gerencia fmanciera pablica, mejorando enormemente la macroprogramaci6n del gasto puiblico. Para
tal fin, se establecieron metodologia soportadas en estudios realizados de los diferentes sectores de la
economia, se desarroll6 aplicaciones computacionales para la utilizaci6n de la informaci6n contable del
sector piiblico colombiano, compatibilizando la informaci6n contable del sector publico de la contaduria
con los requerimientos de informaci6n del DANE. En el desarrollo de sistemas de informaci6n, se elabor6
OEC (operaciones efectivas de caja) util en los reportes sobre ejecucion presupuestal. En el desarrollo de
herramientas analiticas, se elaboraron metodologia para la trimestralizaci6n de las estadisticas de las
cuentas nacionales, dando como resultado mediciones mas certeras asi como indicadores de politica
economica e informaci6n confiable de los resultados de las proyecciones.
TESORERIA
Se crearon a traves del Proyecto, herramientas que han hecho posible el manejo centralizado de la
- 29 -



inversi6n de la liquidez del sistema financiero puiblico. Entre las herramientas desarrolladas esta, el sistema
de portafolio de inversi6n del tesoro el cual representa menores costos de oportunidad para el manejo de
los recursos de DTN para contar con la informaci6n adicional para defmir los flujos de caja.. Esto a
repercutido en eficiencia tecnica fmanciera, mayor disciplina fiscal, transparencia en la ejecuci6n. Para el
fortalecimiento que se perseguia, se necesit6 capacitar al personal en los sistemas de manejo de portafolio
de inversiones y para el sistema del manejo de la informaci6n legal, dotandolo de eficiencia operacional
asi como de funcionarios mas capacitados y con mayor conocimiento. Las actividades del tesoro estan
relacionadas con el desarrollo del SIIF, el cual presenta un modulo para el manejo de la cuenta unica
nacional; la cual posibilita a traves del uso de sus transacciones y procesos, el pago de todas las
obligaciones contraidas con cargo a presupuesto nacional y el control de los recaudos con situaci6n de
fondos, de los recursos del presupuesto nacional. Otro avance conseguido, fue el de reducir los saldos
promedios en las cuentas de las entidades piTblicas y bancos comerciales.
PRESUPUESTO
Se desarroll6 mejoras en el control, manejo y registro del gasto piiblico, suministrando informaci6n a las
entidades sobre practicas de presupestaci6n, ejecuci6n presupuestal y registro. A traves del proyecto, el
gobiemo emiti6 la ley de racionalizaci6n del gasto enfocada para el manejo del presupuesto para todas las
entidades pliblicas. Esta herramienta del gobiemo, sirve para analizar las debilidades institucionales y las
politicas de gasto para dar sugerencias al gobiemo. Seguimientos y evaluaci6n presupuestal, esta
soportado en indicadores de gesti6n y desarrollo, haciendo posible mostrar como se ha utilizado los
recursos del gobiemo. El desarrollo del sistema GESTIONE, en el cual intervino el DNP, contribuye con
el seguimiento eficiente del sector educativo, permitiendo contar con la informaci6n mas confiable que
permita proyectar los costos de las plantas activas y pensionadas de dicho sector, se elaboraron
consultorias que permitieron hacer un seguimiento a los pasivos contingentes , asi como tambien el tema de
los sectores del presupuesto y todo un estudio tecnico sobre indicadores de gesti6n del presupuesto
nacional, el cual fortalecerA con el SIIF , el sistema coadministrativo por esa direcci6n.
CONTABILIDAD
Se consolid6 la contabilidad general dentro de la administraci6n puiblica. Desde 1995 la direcci6n de
contabilidad emite el balance general de la naci6n. Todos los organismos del gobiemo utilizan la misma
normatividad contable, emitiendo anualmente los balances consolidados del gobiemo nacional. El avance
alcanzado es tal que se tiene la informaci6n contable, presupuestal y fiscal del sector pudblico requerida en
linea y tiempo real. Dentro de las politicas de modemizaci6n tambien se descentralizo el manejo contable
y se unificaron criterios. Se organiz6 la contabilidad puiblica como un sistema integrado, en una base de
datos uinica.
UNIDAD DE INFORMATICA MHCP
La infraestructura del ministerio de Hacienda se adecu6 para realizar el soporte tecnol6gico requerido,
posibilitando que los sistemas se desarrollen efectivamente. Se implant6 la red para el ministerio,
pennitiendo la posibilidad de generar informes sobre actividades financieras, asi como una comunicaci6n
en linea de todos los funcionario al interior del ministerio. Se incentivo la cultura infommatica a traves de
la participaci6n de los usuarios en el desarrollo de sistemas y la capacitaci6n de los funcionarios en el
uso de las nuevas herramientas. Es de resaltar que el software creado para el ministerio se acomod6 a las
necesidades tanto de este como de la naci6n.
SISTEMA INTEGRADO DE INFORMACION FINANCIERA-SIIF
El sistema realizado por medio del proyecto, logr6 modemnizar el sistema de manejo financiero del pais
con miras a buscar transparencia, eficiencia y manejo descentralizado de los recursos puiblicos. El
programa informatico SIIF, el cual plantea un sistemas de informaci6n computarizados necesarios para
- 30 -



proveer un apoyo efectivo y eficiente a la administraci6n financiera, que garantice coherencia en la
informaci6n, asi como oportunidad, uniformidad y racionalidad en los flujos de informaci6n. El logro de
realizar una gesti6n puTblica realizada con economia, eficiencia y transparencia y efectividad, el control de
los recursos y del gasto piiblico, la implantaci6n de una contabilidad integrada en las entidades, el
aseguramiento del cumplimiento de las obligaciones de las entidades del presupuesto nacional, disponer
de indicadores reales y oportunos para la evaluaci6n y control de la gesti6n, son resultados que estan
muy relacionado con la puesta en marcha del sistema. El SIIF, realiz6 actividades tales como el disefno,
desarrollo y prueba de software que dio como resultado la creaci6n del m6dulo del sistema (ingresos,
egresos, PAC, CUN, contabilidad , interfaces y administraci6n), el m6dulo de planeaci6n del tesoro la
cual se encuentra en su etapa final para luego ser implementado. Los m6dulos anteriormente descritos le
suministr6 al sistema un manejo homogeneo y oportuno de la informaci6n, optimizaci6n en el uso de los
recursos y facilidad para gestiones de control. Existen en la actualidad 46 entidades del orden nacional
que puede ejecutar sus presupuestos en linea, ademas de que los directivos de las entidades pueden
obtener la informaci6n de ejecuci6n presupuestal oportunamente para la toma de decisiones. La
capacitaci6n del recurso humano, fue una tarea de gran importancia durante la implementaci6n asi como en
la puesta en marcha del sistema, para tal fin se realizaron cursos, seminarios, se elaboraron manuales,
cartillas folletos para ser distribuidos y de esta forma creando cada vez mas una cultura de la informatica.
Los resultados mostrados son: la delimitaci6n de las responsabilidades al interior de la entidad usuaria,
facilidad en la comunicaci6n intema del Area financiera con el resto de las dependencias gracias a la
utilizaci6n eficiente de los recursos tecnol6gicos.
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DE PLANECION - DNP
INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO MODERNIZACION DE LA
ADMINISTRACION FINANCIERA DEL SECTOR PUBLICO MAFSP I
El Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n a traves del Proyecto "Modernizaci6n de la Administraci6n
Financiera del Sector NPblico" logr6 como resultado de la ejecuci6n de los componentes a su cargo, el
fortalecimiento de su capacidad institucional para cumplir con las funciones bajo su responsabilidad como
organismo responsable de la administraci6n de los recursos piublicos. En particular vale destacar los logros
alcanzados en las areas de programaci6n macroecon6mica, la presupuestaci6n de la inversi6n publica, la
asignaci6n de los recursos de transferencias a los entes territoriales, la evaluaci6n de las politicas puiblicas
y los sistemas de informaci6n para el manejo y seguimiento presupuestal y financiero de los recursos de la
inversi6n puiblica.
Lo anterior se concreta en los siguientes resultados en cada uno de los componentes a cargo del DNP:
ANALISIS MACROECONOMICO:
Teniendo en cuenta el objetivo de mejorar la capacidad institucional y la calidad de los flujos de
informaci6n para la elaboraci6n de los programas macroecon6micos, se logr6 el desarrollo de herramientas
para el analisis y la modelaci6n macroecon6mica; se apoy6 el desarrollo de modelos que permiten un mejor
analisis del comportamiento de las variables macroecon6micas, especialmente los modelos de equilibrio
general computable con parte real y parte financiera, modelo de equilibrio general computable con rigideces
reales para el analisis de politicas comerciales, modelo de proyecciones fiscales, modelo de consistencia
macroecon6mica (RMSM-X), entre otros. En forma complementaria, se apoy6 la capacitaci6n de los
funcionarios en cursos especializados en estas Areas asi como la publicaci6n peri6dica de indicadores de
coyuntura econ6mica.
- 31 -



Por otra parte, se fortalecieron los sistemas de infommacion, en especial para la toma de decisiones de
politica econ6mica tales como: sistema de indicadores lideres; matriz de contabilidad social; metodologia
para el seguimiento de la actividad real, PIB trimestral por el lado de la oferta y por el lado del gasto;
sistema de informaci6n para el seguimiento de las finanzas puiblicas, actualizaci6n de las series de las
cuentas nacionales. Como complemento a traves del MAFSP se financi6 la adquisici6n de equipos
requeridos para el soporte de los sistemas de informaci6n.
PRESUPUESTO:
En el marco del objetivo planteado de contribuir a la racionalizaci6n del manejo financiero fortaleciendo los
sistemas de seguimiento a la ejecuci6n presupuestal y fmanciera y el tratamiento de los excedentes
fmancieros de las entidades se lograron los siguientes resultados.
En primer lugar, se ha realizado la primera fase para el desarrollo del Sistema de Informaci6n de la Unidad
de Inversiones y Finanzas Puiblicas (SUIP), que consiste en la conceptualizaci6n de un sistema para la
integracion de los procesos presupuestales que maneja el DNP. Actualmente se encuentra en curso la
licitaci6n para el analisis y el disefno del sistema cuya implementaci6n esta contemplada en el MAFSP II.
Por otra parte, se lograron resultados en la medici6n de la calidad, eficiencia y eficacia del gasto de
inversi6n puiblica; en la evaluaci6n del proceso presupuestal colombiano; en el establecimiento de
indicadores de gesti6n que penmiten medir el impacto de la inversi6n del Gobiemo Central; en la
elaboraci6n de planes de racionalizaci6n del sector educativo y seguimiento y proyecci6n financiera del
sector electrico; y elaboraci6n de hojas metodol6gicas de indicadores sectoriales.
Con relaci6n a la programaci6n de la inversi6n, se obtuvieron resultados en el fortalecimiento de las
metodologias de formulaci6n y evaluaci6n de proyectos del Banco de Proyectos. De igual manera, se
fortaleci6 el manejo de sistemas de informaci6n de credito extemo y de seguimiento presupuestal;
particularmente vale resaltar el apoyo al proceso de seguimiento al gasto puiblico que viene realizando el
DNP y la CGR con el prop6sito de implementar un sistema unificado de seguimiento al gasto y a la gesti6n
de las entidades del Estado. En forma concomitante, se fortaleci6 el recurso humano en esta temAtica a
trav6s de la asistencia a seminarios nacionales e intemacionales.
Finalmente vale resaltar la financiaci6n para la compra de equipos de c6mputo necesarios para agilizar el
procesamiento de los datos y el manejo de los voliumenes de informaci6n requeridos. De igual manera, se
han publicado revistas de seguimiento a la inversi6n y a las finanzas puiblicas, asi como los analisis de
ejecuci6n presupuestal de la inversi6n en los sectores de agua potable, cultura, recreaci6n y deporte,
educaci6n y empleo.
TRANSFERNECIAS TERRITORIALES:
Con el apoyo del MAFSP, el DNP logr6 la reestructuraci6n de la Unidad de Desarrollo Territorial, en
cumplimiento de la Ley 60 de 1993, de modo que qued6 responsabilizada para establecer los
procedimientos para la asignaci6n, liquidaci6n y seguimiento de las transferencias territoriales. En forma
particular, los resultados que se lograron estuvieron centrados en el apoyo al proceso de implementaci6n de
la Ley 60 de 1993, en su contribuci6n al fortalecimiento de las finanzas locales, el mejoramiento de la
capacidad de seguimiento y evaluaci6n de las transferencias y la conformaci6n de sistemas de informaci6n
sobre las entidades territoriales. En forma complementaria, se logr6 fortalecer la capacidad de los gestores
del proceso de descentralizaci6n mediante la organizaci6n de encuentros de autoridades territoriales y
seminarios de actualizaci6n y descentralizaci6n fiscal. La capacitaci6n a funcionarios sobre gesti6n y en el
software de apoyo a la consolidaci6n y manejo del sistema de informaci6n y en los instrumentos de
evaluaci6n y direccionamiento del desempeiio de las entidades territoriales fue un apoyo estrategico para el
- 32 -



logro de estos resultados. Para fortalecer la capacidad tecnica y tecnol6gica de la entidad con miras al
desarrollo del sistema de informaci6n de las entidades territoriales, se adquirieron equipos y adicionalmente
como apoyo a la gesti6n de las entidades territoriales, se apoy6 la divulgacion de cartillas para la
orientaci6n del manejo de la Ley 60 de 1993 y de guias para apoyo al fortalecimiento del desarrollo local.
CONTROL Y EVALUACION:
El Proyecto MAFSP apoyo al DNP en la conceptualizaci6n, disenlo, confornaci6n y fortalecimiento de lo
que es hoy en dia la Direcci6n de Evaluaci6n de Gesti6n por Resultados DEGR, ya que en el momento de
la formulacion del Proyecto se consider6 como uno de los principales objetivos apoyar al DNP en la
conformaci6n de un sistema nacional de evaluaci6n de resultados y de gesti6n, operacional y autosostenible
en el sector publico de Colombia. Los resultados alcanzados son los siguientes.
En primer lugar la organizaci6n y puesta en funcionamiento de la DEGR y la conformacion del Sistema
Nacional de Evaluaci6n de Resultados (SINERGIA) que soporta el sistema nacional de evaluaci6n y cubre
actualmente 170 entidades del nivel nacional. El sistema presenta todos los objetivos institucionales los
cuales corresponden a objetivos sectoriales del Plan Nacional de Desarrollo. Como fase siguiente se preve
la implementaci6n a nivel descentralizado y territorial de dicho sistema.
Por su parte, se logr6 la sistematizaci6n de evaluaciones de las politicas, planes, programas y proyectos.
Los reportes anuales que el DNP presenta al CONPES y al Congreso han adquirido una nueva forma
basada en los criterios de evaluaci6n disefiados por SINERGIA. Para el logro de lo anterior, se
configuraron estrategias de informaci6n en terminos de objetivos, indicadores y logros. Es importante
anotar que se han realizado evaluaciones estrategicas ex post entre las cuales valle mencionar: evaluacion
de los Corpes, de la Troncal del Magdalena Medio, de proyectos de agua potable y saneamiento basico,
entre otros.
Se logr6 adicionalmente la creaci6n de monitoreo y evaluaci6n en las entidades del sector publico. El
manual basico que se ha establecido para prop6sitos de evaluaci6n a traves del sector publico es el Plan
Indicativo. Este presenta las norimas basicas y criterios (indicadores-logros) que han sido materializados a
traves del diseilo del Acuerdo de Eficiencia.
Por otra parte, se logr6 la sistematizacion de evaluaciones intemas en entidades del sector puiblico; a traves
de la realizacion de seminarios se ha apoyado a la mayoria de las entidades a que se capaciten
directamente en su conocimiento para diseniar, hacer seguimiento y evaluar el Plan Indicativo.
Adicionalmente se apoy6 la adecuaci6n tecnol6gica requerida para este proposito a traves de la compra de
computadores y el apoyo para la capacitaci6n de los funcionarios en seminarios nacionales e
intemacionales.
A traves del MAFSP I se inici6 la preparaci6n del Componente de Contrataci6n y adquisicion puiblica del
MAFSP II, a traves de lo siguiente: apoyo para la reglamentaci6n del proyecto de modificaci6n de la Ley
80; el diagn6stico sobre modalidades de contratacion y adquisicion estatal por fuera de Ley 80; el disefio de
un sistema para el seguimiento, evaluaci6n de las practicas de contrataci6n; el disefio e implementacion de
una estrategia para el aprovechamiento de tecnologias informrticas y de comunicaciones para el
mejoramiento de la contrataci6n del Estado y difusi6n de normas de licitacion y contratos puiblicos
otorgados; y finalmente la implementacion de un sistema pedag6gico orientado a dotar al servidor piiblico
con las herramientas conceptuales y legales vigentes, asi como la tecnica especifica en los procedimientos
contractual.
FORTALECIMIENTO SISTEMAS DE INFORMACION:
- 33 -



En esta area se le ha dado especial enfasis en las actividades de coordinaci6n en los componentes comunes
entre Ministerio de Hacienda y el DNP en especial en lo que tiene que ver con el SIIF. Actualmente se
encuentra instalado el SIIF y funcionando en paralelo en la Division Financiera del DNP.
Los progresos alcanzados son: el fortalecimiento de la Divisi6n Financiera del DNP con sistemas de
informaci6n y equipos para el manejo de contabilidad y tesoreria para adecuarla a la implantaci6n del SIIF;
concertaci6n con el Ministerio de Hacienda para articular dentro del disefio del SIIF los requerimientos del
DNP para efectos de seguimiento y evaluaci6n de la ejecuci6n presupuestal; participaci6n en el
levantamiento de informaci6n para el disefio de los m6dulos que tendri el SIIF en las entidades ejecutoras
de presupuesto; definici6n de la informaci6n que el SIIF debe entregar al DNP para realizar el seguimiento
al presupuesto.
Por otra parte, se logr6 el fortalecimiento de la red de datos del DNP a traves de lo siguiente: Adquisici6n
del software de servidores; adquisici6n del sistema operacional de las estaciones de trabajo y el software
aplicativo; adquisici6n de dos servidores para la red del DNP; tendido de un back-bone en fibra 6ptica;
adquisici6n del software de administraci6n de la red.
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DEL REPUBLICA - CGR
INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL PROYECTO MODERNIZACION DE LA
ADMINISTRACION FINANCIERA DEL SECTOR PUBLICO MAFP-CGR
El proyecto MAFP, dentro del componente gasto desarrollo un subcomponentes enfocado al control
extemo, cuya tarea qued6 bajo la supervisi6n del CGR. Los resultados obtenidos son los siguientes:
El proyecto MAFP contribuyo en convertir a la contraloria general de la republica en un centro de
excelencia en el control fiscal.
LA FORMACION DE UN CONTROL SOCIAL
A traves del proyecto se gener6 el punto de partida para crear la estructura y la cultura de participaci6n
ciudadana como parte del ejercicio del control fiscal. La participaci6n y la capacitaci6n de los funcionarios
de la Contraloria General de la Repiulica, dio como resultado personal id6neo en el ejercicio de las
funciones, un mayor acercamiento de la instituci6n a los ciudadanos, uniendo a las contralorias
territoriales. Por otra parte la estructura de la instituci6n, a traves de la utilizaci6n de las nuevas
herramientas tales como el software de recepci6n de quejas y denuncias, la puesta en marcha de los comites
de vigilancia ciudadana crearon condiciones favorables para descentralizar las actividades al interior de
la entidad y asi aumentando la eficiencia en las tareas, fortaleciendo los procesos de auditoria y los
estudios de caracter sectorial. La modernizaci6n tecnol6gica de la instituci6n, conseguida con la
colaboraci6n del proyecto, estableci6 una red para intermunicar a la instituci6n.
DIFUSI6N DEL CONTROL SOCIAL
Acerc6 a la instituci6n a los ciudadanos a traves de la interacci6n de los funcionarios. La creaci6n de
centros de investigaci6n, documentaci6n sobre participaci6n ciudadana en el control fiscal, logr6 permitir
que la ciudadania cuente con herramientas que le permitan un accionar cualificado, fortaleciendo ademas
la capacidad de interactuar activamente en los procesos de vigilancia del patrimonio estatal.
En lo que tiene que ver con el fortalecimiento del Sistema Nacional de Control Fiscal, para las
contralorias Territoriales se formulo una estrategia de coordinaci6n entre EL CGR y las contralorias
territoriales dando como resultado el disefio del SIT, el cual las intercomunica.
FORMACI6N DE DIFUSION DEL NUEVO DISCURSO DE CONTROL
- 34 -



Logr6 posicionar a la contraloria general como un facilitador del estado, en la ejecuci6n eficaz y
efectiva de los recursos publicos. Dentro de este tema tenemos, los instrumentos de fortalecimiento
misional que prestan el apoyo operativo como son los mapas de riesgos (sistema SIRI), mecanismos que
aseguren las adquisiciones del estado (sistema SICE) e informaci6n normativa para el adecuado ejercicio
de control fiscal en el ambito juridico(sistema SINOR).
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 35 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Subcomponent I         Performance    Expected Output and                                           Current Status
Activity            Indicators              Impact
Progress                                     Impact
A. RESOURCE MOBILIZATION
Al. TAX ADMINISTRATION
Operational Subsystems
SAT: Taxpayer Services   Reduction of the cost Taxpayer welfare identifying The electronic filing and payment  8000 major taxpayers in Bogota,
of taxpayer       how to make voluntary tax  system went into production on January Medellin, Cali, Barranquilla and Palmira.
=>       COLLECTIONS  compliance,           compliance easier         I st, 2000 for 1,500 major taxpayers
*Electronic filing and   measured by                                                                     The Administration obtains the retums of
payment                  independent analyses Number of routes to     The point of contact e-mail account has  these taxpayers on-line with 100% quality.
*Intemet queries         before and after the  compliance             been established and is up and nining
project
Increased quality and    Intemet query facility is up and running
% of revenue      timeliness of tax information
collected nationally
by this means
*Taxpayer Current Account  Taxpayer Current   Taxpayers and [tax] staff    Current Account includes GESTOR  Taxpayer Current Account balance
*GESTOR [Tax             Account balance    promptly have complete    administrative actions.            updated and complete 20 days after
Management system]:      updated and        balances                                                     taxpayer filing or payment
complete 30 days                            Size of the physical archive available
after taxpayer filing                       for ongoing consultation is reduced.
or payment                                  This product is installed at all
Colombian tax offices.
=>CUSTOMS                Real time monitoring Efficiency of user      The COMEX Bogota "ordinary mode   The Bogota and Aeropuerto El Dorado
*COMEX: Customs          of 100% of         compliance with customs    importation system" version I is in  administrations have a goods loading,
operations               shipments reported   processes, reducing the time  production (airport shipment and  inventory declaration and customs release
in the information   it takes for customs   inventory, banks and customs release   system
system, in the    clearance to a maximum of  modules completed).
receipt, storage,  24 hours.                Version 1.
warehousing and
customs clearance                           43% of customs clearances are
processes.                                  completed same day as acceptance of
the customs declaration.
==ADMINISTRATIVE         Setup of the       Frequently Asked Questions Complete "Thesaurus" of Customs,  Unification of concepts at the national
SUPPORT                  Colombian Center  regarding Customs, Taxes   Taxes (last 2 years) and Foreign  level and reduction of time to issue
-Legal Database          for Legislative, Case and Foreign Exchange for   Exchange databases             concepts.
Law and Doctrine   staff and taxpayers
(Customs, Taxes and
Foreign Exchange
Intemet
Consultations)
SIF: Oversight           Maximize the       Development of audit      SICAT installed at the following   Through effective management of the
accuracy of in-depth strategies and built-in  offices: central office, major taxpayers,  oversight area, DIAN obtained
=TAX OVERSIGHT           audits to combat    compliance incentives   legal entities, individuals, Barranquilla, $655,184,000,000 in 2000
evaders                                     Bucarainanga, Cali, Cartagena,
Development of integrated   Cuicuta, Ibague, Manizalez, Medellin,  Through management of SICAT programs
Additional revenue  audits that analyze tax,  Palmira, Santa Marta, Neiva, Tulua,    DIAN obtained $3,654,748,439 in
totaling 0.4% of    customs and foreign     Monteria, Sogamoso, Pasto, Popayan.   1999 and $ 64,288,185,102 in 2000
GDP per year over  exchange issues.
the next 5 years.                           The scope of SICAT was broadened to  Evasion measurements have been used to
Supplementary information  include Individuals and GEREN and    calculate Administration goals.
Reduce VAT        and tax and customs       AUDITORIA modules were created
evasion to 20% over selection systems       (Implemented)                      Considerable reduction of VAT evasion
five years.                                                                    using tools created by DIAN and tools
565 users trained nationally on 287  established for the project.
workstations.
Today more than 80% of Oversight
with local information at the offices
- 36 -



VAT and income tax evasion
methodologies and measurements
designed and delivered to the
administration
Constructed and delivered to the
admninistration the Model and
production chains system
Data Warehouse installed and in use at
the central administration.
=>CUSTOMS                 Carry out effective   Carry out in-depth customs  SIFARO in production at 21   Any customs administration can consult
OVERSIGHT                 oversight of all staff investigations and permit   administrations with customs operations the SIFARO data of other customs
*SIFARO: Selection of    involved in the    increased management and  that have a computerized infrastructure, administrations on line.
non-complying importers    customs process  decrease technical        on 400 computers, and 1050 staff
eMeasurement of contraband identifyring technical contraband by developing   trained in the use of the tool.  All customs control operatives have access
contraband and    pre- and post-oversight                                      to SIFARO data on line via
using current data                                                             radiotelephone.
Identification of principal    90 % of administrations covered by
Offer independent   contraband sectors and their  Colombian customs function   The percentage of returns of seized good
access to         significance                                                 was reduced because there is certainty
system-wide customs                                                            regarding the legality or illegality of
information to                                                                 bringing the goods in
Administrations
There is an effective exchange of
Measure real                                                                   information on import declarations for
contraband                                                                     investigative purposes among institutions
(DEA, INCOMEX, GREMIOS etc.)
Recognition of SIFARO as a basic
customs control tool.
=nTRAINING                                                            Capacity at administrations to generate  Use of e-mail, ODBC, modem,
*Area specific                                                        local oversight programs           standardized office tools.
*Computer tools
*Instilling receptiveness to                                          Use of new tools
change
SIR: Collection Compliance Minimize the     Operational application                                      Reengineering of the data validation
transaction time for  supporting all transactions in Data organization and review processes  processes has substantially improved
=>COLLECTIONS            the taxpayer       connection with collections  constructed and operating.      quality and timeliness.
*Studies of the quality and                 from taxpayers            SIPAC installed at 8 administrations
timeliness of data      Ihmediate                                                                        Collection procedures have been unified.
*Reengineering of the data   availability of data  Immediate, system-wide  Have virtual files that reduce the size of
validation processes     for internal       availability of collections    physical archives.            Systematization, automation and
*SIPAC : Systematization of processing by the    data                                                    standardization of the collection process
collections              administration                                                                  nationwide.
Selective review of historical
data                                                                                                     Consistent taxpayer data fa,c,ilitates
detection and dissuades [sic) taxpayers
from being up-to-date with the
Goverunent
*Oversight of formal     Automated          Continual reminders to    Operating                          Letters were generated to registered
obligations              identification of    taxpayers with formal                                      taxpayers late in filing or failing to file,
registered taxpayers non-compliance issues  Detection of taxpayer inconsistencies   improving revenues. As of June, 1999,
who are late in filing                      nationwide                         gross revenues obtained were
or fail to file or  Generation of authorizations                               $20,707,982,411, generated by
whose returns are   as part of the system-wide    Software in design and construction  notification of 23,713 taxpayers who
inconsistent.     data                                                         failed to file. In 2000, revenues obtained
Authorizations to                                                              were $25 billion generated by notification
taxpayers for                                                                  of 150,000 taxpayers who failed to file.
self-withholding and
special deadlines.
Oversight of Peace
Bonds
*Refunds and offsets     Automation of the   Oversight of refunds and  System to automate the administrative
administrative    automated generation of   collection and refund process built
process and       refunds
oversight of
automated refunds
eCINCO: consignment      Automated rating,   Files by administration with  CINCO Software built and in continual Evaluation and sanction criteria were
- 37 -



indexes                   oversight and      consignments, index,      use                                 formalized
*SALOMON  Oversight    sanction of           sanctions, actions, etc.,
and sanctions processes   collections staff.    available system-wide  SALOMON 40% built                   Administrative actions were unified
*Accounting Tax and
Customs                                                                                                    Monitors the behavior of collections staff
and minimizes the cost of the sanctions
process.
Permits establishing time period
collections staff retain revenues
Ensures that revenues are received by the
Treasury in a timely manner to be used for
government operations and social
investment.
Guarantees that appropriations for use by
the financial system do not exceed
resolutions passed
*Automated Nationwide     Automated          Automated consolidated    Software built and implemented      The processes that had been dropped have
Consolidation of Tax and    nationwide       accounting system for tax                                     been reactivated, favoring areas such as
Customs Accounting        consolidation 24    and customs revenues and                                     centralized oversight and collections.
hours after the close  nationwide monthly and
of the last        annual close
administration
Administrative
Subsystems
SIB: Goods and Inventories  Compliance with    Improved handling of state   The contract process has not been
mnaintenance       property to enhance the   carried out.
ADMINISTRATIVE            standards for existing internal efficiency of the  DIAN obtained free software for this
SUPPORT                   goods              administration,           purpose
-Goods and inventory
system                    Adequate lead time
for purchases
Optimized use of
goods and equipment
SAF: Financial            Sufficient, timely   Improved handling of state  Integrated budget, accounting, and  Capacity to present accounting and budget
Management                financial support for property to enhance the  treasury system operating at the central  and cash control data on a timely basis and
tax and customs    intemal efficiency of the  administration and major branch   in accordance with regulations, in a
ADMINISTRATIVE            administration     administration            offices,                            manner consistent with the new national
SUPPORT                   operational                                                                     structure
*MOISES: Financial,      requirements
accounting and budget
oversight system
SAP: Personnel            New labor relations  Improved personnel      The payroll software is running at 45    Elimination of individual payrolls
Management                based on           administration            DIAN administrations.
productivity-based                                                              Incorporation of Administrative Actions
ADMINISTRATIVE            compensation
SUPPORT                                                                                                    Timely payment of payroll
*Personnel and payroll
system                                                                                                     Greater control over economic rights of
*Review and compilation of                                                                                 employees and staff.
historical data
*Improvements to
management control systems
(will be replaced by
GESTOR tax management
system)
SAO: Office Management   Quicker production  Improved operation of the    With GESTOR arild SIPAC,         The use of office tools and staff training
of documents and   tax administration offices    administrative actions are being  allow the Administration to offer improved
*GESTOR:                  communications to  through automation of most  reviewed and unified nationwide.  services to taxpayers
*SIPAC:                   taxpayers          functions
*DATA SUPPORT                                                          With the improved management control
*TRAINING                                                              systems reports and statistics are being
built to monitor productivity at all
levels.
- 38 -



The office automation described in the
following item
SGI: Informatics          Optimal use of     Optimization of hardware                                      The administration has state-of-the-art
Management                available hardware  and software communication Local equipment and networks are  local area networks nationwide.
and software       capacities                installed nationwide and have permitted
=DATA SUPPORT             resources                                    local access to data (ODBC), work in   The administration has discovered that the
*Logical and electrical                      Permit the use of         groups and e-mail.                  outsourcing of services allows it to focus
networks                                     system-wide data directly by                                  on its core activities.
*Office equipment and                        area staff.               Computer network platform cabling
networks                                                               structured to connect 1600 PCs and 100 Technological changes introduced and
*Server equipment                            Modernize and integrate    servers nationwide.               infrastructure established in accordance
*Software                                    DIAN's entire data                                            with new requirements.
.Network Administration                      infrastructure            235 data communications units for
Outsourcing                                                            LAN/WAN networks, 1586 Client and  Reinforcement of the existing data
-Workuingroups                                                         production PCs, 85 servers, 235     infrastucture, technological change and
LWora incess to data                                                  printers, Microsoft administration and   updating, training of human resources.
*Local access to data                                                  productivity licenses and software.
*ODBC
*E-mail                                                                Capacity to connect 780 computers to
the DIAN networks
=>TRAINING                                                             More than 4,500 administration staff    While it might not totally eliminate the
*Area-specific training                                                members have been trained           problem of rejection of technology,
-Computer tools                                                                                           instilling receptiveness to change has
*lnstilling receptiveness to                                           The administration of the entire local   minimized it.
change                                                                 area networks system and office
hardware and software has been
outsourced.
SAI: Internal and         Sustainability of    Feedback system for     GESTOR in place at 14 administrations Basic administrative actions unified
Management Audit          attained performance administration management  and is the only tool offering    nationwide.
levels             by hierarchical levels    management data to all the areas.
COLLECTIONS
*GESTOR tax management  Administrative       Data on administrative
system: Generation of     actions that affect   actions available to all
administrative actions    CCC and accounting administration staff
and provide basic
=>                        management control
ADMINISTRATIVE            uploaded to the
SUPPORT                   system-wide facility
*Management control
system
*lntemal Control System   hicreased          Development of an effective  The agreement with the Civil Service    The administration is aware of the hotbeds
(Civil Service Agreement)   effectiveness of  Intemal Control and      Administrative Department included a   of corruption.
Institutional      Oversight and Control     risk matrix as mechanism to focus on
management based   System                    corruption                          The intemal control system will be
on mechanisms to                                                                 implemented at MAFPII
prevent and detect
cases of staff
corruption
SAE: Tax Analysis and     The relationship   Built-in feedback of tax  Complete methodologies and          The measurements of evasion have been
Studies                   between the        system performance under   measurements of total VAT evasion, by  key indicators for defining administration
executive and      various scenarios         economic activity and by           policies and are beginning to be used as
=*OVERSIGHT               legislative branches                         administration.                     tools to give direction to oversight, as well
*Methodologies for        has improved from a                                                              as for the calculation of goals by
measuring income tax and   technical standpoint                        Methodology and measurements of     administration.
VAT evasion               as a result of                               general income tax evasion by
*Productive chains       improved quality of                           economic sector and by administration   Measurement of DIAN's fight against
*Measurement of contraband execution reports for                       being tested.                       contraband and awareness of the level of
*Data warehouse           the tax and customs                                                              contraband.
system                                       472 x 472 input-output table, and
verification with fmns by surveys.  VAT and income tax evasion: Possibility
of more active presentation of evasion
Data warehouse implemented at the  figures in the design of tax policy. DIAN is
administration,                    in the vanguard in Latin America with
respect to such estimates.
Customs Operations Control Streamline customs  Information system that  The COMEX Bogota "ordinary mode   The entire administration and its various
operation for legal   permits real time monitoring  importation system" version I is in  offices are pursuing the same objective
=*CUSTOMS                 imports, reducing    of the entire customs   production (airport shipment and    under a formal, common customs plan
*COMEX: Operations        customs clearance   clearance process (arrival,  inventory, banks and customs release
time to 24 hours.    warehousing, declaration    modules completed).
and payment and customs    Version 1.
- 39 -



Offer data in real   release).
time for operative                           43% of customs clearances are
control and good                             completed same day as acceptance of
quality data for                             the customs declaration.
subsequent oversight
*ADA: Marketing           Increase revenue    Decentralized system     System in production in Medellin.   The massive review of data and inventory
index for sales of    supports arrangements for                                 of merchandise seized or abandoned has
seized merchandise  defining the legal status of                                been carried out for ADA.
10% over its      merchandise seized or
administrative cost  abandoned and the processes                                Control of merchandise apprehended and
for disposal of such                                         seized.
merchandise.
A. 2 TREASURY AND GOVERNMENT CREDIT
Public Credit
Analysis of the historic  -Obtain a profile of   * Historical debt     *     Diagnostic study of the level of  Reliability of government debt data
profile of goverrnent debt  government debt as  information provides   information and staff attitudes in the
of 1994             framework for future debt   face of changing technology.
*  Analytical tools  strategy
used as guidelines for
debt strategy       * Improve administration
*  Government debt by establishing institutional
bulletin published    memory
beginning in 1995
Review of intemal        *  By 1995, draft all * Rationalization of the    With Ministry of Finance and Public   Improved organizational climate.
procedures, functions and   job and procedure    govemment credit office  Credit resources the analysis of
responsibilities         manuals                                       procedures and functions moved      Development of Article 6, Law 48, of
*  Establish intemal * Evaluate human        forward, and this process is now nearly  1998. Establishment of contingency fund.
control procedures   resources                completed.
Definition and development of
procedures and indicators for office
workflow quality and management.
Review of extemal        *  Have reliable    * Reliable database of    *      Development of methodology    Improved awareness of indebtedness at
procedures replaced by:  govemment debt      territorial administrations'   and support for the Public Credit  the territorial administrations
Support for territorial  records at territorial  debt                  Office
indebtedness             administrations'
headquarters        * Advise territorial      *     Audit of the government debt
administrations on        database has been completed.
methodologies for taking on
and managing their debt
Development of an       Implement a debt     Precise and timely        *     KPMG conducted an audit of    The flow of communications is
information system for    administration system  information available for    the debt database           improving.
govemrnent debt         in 1996              economic, financial and
administration.                              statistical analysis      *     Redesign and development of    A debt audit is being conducted for the
*Generate the database:                                                govenmment debt information systems.   govenmment debt recording division of
*Review of procedures                                                                                      DGCP to improve the quality and
*Information system for                                                *     During the development of     reliability of existing data.
debt administration                                                    SIGADE the information was migrated
into a new platform.               Conversion of the database to the
SIGADE format.
*     Requirements are defined for
SIGADE                             The SIGADE system will provide the
General Public Credit Administration
*     Tests of SIGADE in the       with support regarding:
implementation phase.              *Management, processing and hiring
*The law on indebtedness
*     Software and hardware         .Operation of special disbursement
purchased to update the existing   account
database                           *Debt service
*Accounting, accruals and differential.
*     Consultants were hired to    Assignments and assumptions
support the Office's management IT    *Debt profile
unit.                              *Guarantees
*Risk assessment.
-40 -



*     Equipment was bought to
strengthen the Public Credit Office's
computer network.
*     Consultants were brought in to
run diagnostics on the current system
and propose a solution.
*     Relationships established
between entities and the government
debt system
*Train staff on managing  *   50% of staff    * Train staff to increase    *   Staff received training on    *Public Credit Office and other
government debt         trained by 1994 and    efficiency and create a   managing debt risk                  government agency staff trained in
100% by 1998         public credit "culture" and                                    managing debt risk
an institutional memory
*The debt risk of the Central
Government and of some decentralized
oDefine the strategy for                                                                                     agencies was reduced through SWAP
managing debt risk      *   Number of         *  Standardize             *     Salomon Brothers created the    transactions
entities advised on the  methodologies for managing  tool for assessing risk and trained the
management of debt   debt risk                  staff in the methodologies.
risk
* Development for the central
Govemment of methodology for
managing debt risk.
*     Agreements with Ecopetrol,
Carbocol, ISA and other decentralized
agencies so they can take advantage of
the risk management methodology
Treasury
Administrative          *   Compendium of  * Increase in time allotted  The analysis of procedures and jobs  Strengthening of Treasury
reorganization of the   all standards and     for planning activities   was carried out with Ministry of     administration.
Treasury                decrees that affect   * Allow the Treasury to    Finance and Public Credit resources.
*Rationalization of     treasury operations    invest in other funancial  MAFP did not participate.
administrative processes   and reduce by 50% all markets
*Review and modification  regulatory obstacles to  * Systematize procedures
of Treasury legal       the efficient operation  and manuals that facilitate
framework               of the Treasury.      Treasury operations
*Development of an      *   Reduction in
internal control system  interventions by and
restrictions imposed by
Central Bank
J Job and
procedures manuals by
1994
Transform the Treasury    *   Reduce to zero    * Accurately determine   Treasury activities are related to the  With the establishment of CUN, the
into a public sector bank   idle balances at  current public sector     development of SIEF.                 Colombian Treasury became the bank for
*Establish a single account commercial banks  expenditures                                                  the central administration of the
system                  *   Create an on-line                           A module was developed within SIIF    Colombian Govemment
*Develop financial      system connecting the  * Improve cash flow      for the Colombian Treasury to operate
planning information    Treasury and the      planning                  the Single National Account.         Efficiency in the handling of Treasury
system                  banking system                                                                       resources, by decreasing the average idle
*   Increase         *  Streamline the payment  Reduce average balances in the      money in agencies' authorized accounts.
efficiency of budget   system                   accounts of govemment agencies and
execution                                       commercial banks.                   This permits improved cash flow
*   Increase revenue  * Reduce unnecessary                                          planning, streamlines the payment system
through short-term   financial cost of loans                                        and reduces unnecessary financial costs.
investment of idle
balances at                                                                         Moreover, the use of intermediaries is
commercial banks                                                                    reduced. Intermediaries were considered a
*   By 1994                                                                         source of corruption.
participate in the
formulation of the
financial plan
Development of an       *   An up-to-date     * Increase efficiency by    Design tables and general content of    Lower opportunity costs for handling
Integrated Information    information system  reducing the time required   the system for integration of the  Treasury resources, given the availability
System for the Treasury   containing all the  to process information    following modules: Expenditures,     of additional information with which to
variables affecting  * Flexibility in analysis    Revenues, PAC, CUN and accounting.  establish cash flow projections.
- 41 -



economic policy     through financial models
*   Increase         * Reduce risks of Treasury On-line communication.            Technical financial efficiency.
efficiency           operations
*   Include database                           Acquisition of software and hardware.  Greater fiscal discipline.
on cash basis
operations                                     Adaptation of the physical         Preparation of balance sheet and
infrastructure of the information  statement of income for Colombia.
systems unit.
Transparency of execution.
Installation of the Network at the
Ministry.
Software tests for Treasury planning
are in the final phase.
Training and            *   1994: basic      * Training designed to    *     THESAURO - a system for       *Operating efficiency
Strengthening of Treasury  training programs  promote Treasury efficiency  handling legal information - was  oBetter-trained staff
*   Establish an     *  Development of         purchased                           *Increased familiarity with the investment
ongoing training     programs to increase the  *     A system for managing the     portfolio
program as of 1995    Treasury's operating     investment portfolio was purchased.
*   Programs for     efficiency                *     The necessary training was
handling legal                                 developed for each of these systems.
information
*   Programs for
managing the
investment portfolio
B. MACROPROGRAMMING MODELS (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit)
Establish Methodologies   *   Operations and   * Technical training    * Studies of the various sectors of the    The Macro Policy Office has more sector
for macroprogramming    technical manuals    available                 economy                             data to assist with economic policy
*   Written                                                                        decisions.
management                                     * Development of methodologies and
procedures                                     computer applications to use
*   Develop training                           Colombian public sector accounting
data
Harmonization of public sector
accounting data from Colombia's
General Accounting Office with
DANE requirements for production of
national accounts
Development of          *   Standardize the   * Inventory and diagnosis  * A cash basis (Operaciones Efectivas  *The OEC system is being used by the
Information systems     process manuals for    of the data required for  de Caja, OEC) information system was  Budget Office and by CONFIS within the
obtaining minimum    macroprogramming          developed                           Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
data required        * Comprehensive system
*   Reduce the data  allowing flexibility in data   * The system was implemented at the    oThe OEC system is useful for reports on
delay to three months  retrieval               Macroeconomic Policy Office,        budget execution at the centralized and
*   Employ a total of * Timely data            CONFIS, the Ministry of Finance and   decentralized levels.
15 p/m for          * Define institutional     Public Credit Budget Office and at
programming          responsibilities for      DNP.                                *A single methodology is used for
information processing and                                   gathering and processing OEC data.
transfer                  * The system has been updated and
projections through 2010 have been
made.
* Training on national accounts.
Development of analytical *   Capacity to    * Altemative              -Complete historical series of ftnancial  *The Macro Policy Office has better
tools and models        determine extemal and methodologies for        data                               financial data
macroeconomic policy macroeconomic policies
impacts              * Coordinate short-term    *Development of methodology for    *The Macro Policy Office and DANE can
*   Methodologies to  and long-term objectives  quarterly issuance of national accounts  issue quarterly bulletins containing
coordinate the                                 statistics                          national accounts data.
development of
planning and sector                            oHiring staffto monitor on a timely  oQuarterly issuance allows for economic
policies based on the                          basis economic activity in such areas    policy studies, measurements and
macroeconomic                                  as: monetary statistics, monitoring and  indicators that are closer to real time.
environment                                    construction of economic indicators,
advice on Intemet tools for monitoring
-42 -



*Reliable data available on results of
the economy.                       macroeconomic projections
*Investment in equipment was carried
EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT (Ministry of Finance and Public Credit - MHCP)
_.1 EXPENDITURE BUDGET PLANNING
Integration of the     *   100%             * Establish parameters for  Acquisition of THESAURO,         Amendment to the law establishing the
expenditure budget      expenditure budget    more efficient expenditure   permitting on-line consultation of all    Budget Office.
planning processes      execution           budget planning           current budget guidelines
*Establish standards,                       *  Budget standards and
parameters and procedures                   procedures manuals for all  The Gestione System was developed    Greater efficiency in monitoring the
public sector agencies   under an inter-agency agreement in  education sector, providing for more
*Train staff                                * Increased institutional   conjunction with DNP and staff   reliable data allowing cost projections for
commitment to expenditure  responsible for the general budget of    active facilities.
budget                   Colombia
* A budget that better
reflects needs
* Training at all levels
Expenditure budget      *   Consolidate     * Timely flow of data     Budget monitoring and evaluation   This activity is being transferred in its
execution, consolidation    budget execution  * Consolidation of criteria, supported by management and   entirety to the new Annual Operating Plan
and evaluation         within 15 days of    methodologies and data    development indicators, with       (12: SIIF) component.
*Systematization of data   closing date     sources.                  Colciencias and DANE
*Data validation and    *   Reduce budget   * Obtain daily expenditure
analysis                data input process time budget data           Development of a functional and
to one week         * Regulation of Treasury  economic classification system for the
_________________ monetary expansion          Colombian budget
Upgrade system capacity   *   Laws, decrees    * Laws and decrees     Consulting services have been used in   This process is being carried out with IDB
for transfer and execution  and resolutions on  goveming transfer processes  two areas:                  under the FOSIT Project of the Ministry
of territorial finances  territorial transfers for  at the municipal and  *Detemsination of territorial  of Finance.
*Establish standards and   DNP              departmental levels       administrations' financial data sources
procedures              *   Periodic ex-post  * Information system to    -Study to establish standards for
*Development of an     evaluations.         support the transfer process  possible tax reform
information system                          to monitor the fiscal deficit.
A contract to systematize and
rationalize financial data circuits
affecting the territorial administrations
is in process
This activity is being transferred in its
Treasury Planning                                                     entirety to the new Annual Operating
Subsystem                                                             Plan component examined in the
foregoing item.
Government Expenditure  Establish the       Expenditure Rationalization  The Govemment passed an         All government agencies apply the
Rationalization        parameters for       Law                       Expenditure Rationalization Law based  Expenditure Rationalization Law to
Commission              government policies to                        on the reconmnendations of the     manage their budgets.
rationalize Public                            Expenditure Commission
Sector spending and                                                              Government tool to analyze institutional
reduce the fiscal deficit                                                        weaknesses.
Analyze expenditure policy and make
suggestions to the Government.
C2. EXPENDITURE
ACCOUNTING
(Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit - MHCP)
Organize and start up the   *   Standardize  Uniform accounting and   All accounting standards were      All govemment agencies use the same
General Accounting Office accounting standards  legal standards       standardized at the central and    accounting standards.
and the central level                         decentralized levels.
*   Consolidated                                                                 There is a public sector regulatory
balance sheet and the                         A consolidated balance sheet was   agency.
central and                                   established at the central and
decentralized levels                          decentralized levels.              Consolidated accounting statements for
*   Law establishing                                                             the Colombian Government are issued
the General                                   The General Accounting Office was    annually.
Accounting Office                             established by law as a regulatory
agency.
- 43 -



*   Establishment of
a regulatory agency
Transfer of functions to    General Accounting    General Accounting Office   The General Accounting Office was    The central Govemment has an office that
General Accounting Office Office up and running  organized            established and is currently operating   reports to it the actual and official
as a Special Office of the Ministry of   financial condition of Colombia
Finance and Public Credit
Review and establish   Accounting manuals in Standardize accounting   All General Accounting Office      All procedures of the General Accounting
standards and procedures  use by 1994       procedures and train staff   accounting procedures were      Office have been defined at the central
for financial reporting at                                            determined and General Accounting  and decentralized levels.
public sector agencies                                                Office functions were defined.
All staff trained in govemment accounting
Staffwas trained in accounting
standards and procedures at the central
and decentralized levels.
Organize and start up  Accounting office at   Enforcement of accounting   Accounting offices were established at  Accounting procedures were
accounting offices at all   each agency of the  standards             a decentralized level              decentralized and criteria for public
levels ofthe central   central Govemment                                                                 accounting were unified
Government.
Prepare opening balance   Value all accounts at  Balance sheets adjusted and  Since 1995 the accounting office has    The Govemment has accounting data on
sheets for Colombia    current market values  valued at current market    been issuing Colombia's balance sheets  the entire balance sheet.
values.
Development of an      Accounting data and   * Monthly accounting     This activity is transferred in its
integrated public sector    consolidation of all   consolidation of the central  entirety to the new Annual Operating
information            Govemment agencies  Govenmment and             Plan component
- SIIF accounting module                    decentralized agencies
* Integrated information
systemr
Training               Staff trained byl995   Knowledge and relevance of Staff trained at the central and
accounting function      decentralized levels in public
accounting standards and procedures
and in the New Accounting Plan
D.2 EXTERNAL CONTROL
TRAINING               582 stafftrained by the Convert Colombia's     *Training - social oversight       *Provided the starting point for
end of 1998.        General Accounting Office                                    establishing a structure for citizen
into a center of excellence in  *Dissemination of social oversight  participation, and then fostering citizen
fiscal                                                      involvement as part of the fiscal exercise.
oversight                                                   Stafftraining on fiscal matters. Created
*Training of an auditor for the entire   strategies encompassing govemment
system                             agency contributions with respect to
citizen oversight of Govemment. Staff
*Dissemination of new oversight   trained to form and/or consolidate citizen
discourse                          oversight committees. Decentralization of
activities within the agency.
Strengthening of audit procedures.
*Citizens getting closer to the agency.
Positioning of the accounting office
selected for citizen participation with the
agency.
*Development of a leaming process to
improve the oversight system. Articulate
the relationship of the agencies audited.
Change in attitude regarding receptivity
of the agencies audited. Community that
believes in the audit process.
*Positioned the General Accounting
Office as the Govemnment's facilitator in
the efficient and effective use of its
resources. Reached out to the people to
encourage reflection on the investment of
public funds.
E. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
El. STRENGTHENING OF THE DATA PROCESSING UNIT
- 44 -



System Management and  *   Methodologies    * Establish standards for   Adaptation of physical infrastructure of Development of software that responds to
Control                fully adopted in 1997  software construction   the data processing unit           the needs of the ministry and of the
*Software construction  *   [At] all ministries * Reduce costs                                           nation.
*Software acquisition  by 1994              * Successful              Installation of the network at the
*Oversight of software  *   Procedures      implementation of systems   ministry                         Capacity to generate reports on financial
development            manuals containing    * Monitor sequence of                                       activities.
contingency plans,    activities in system
access policies and  development                                                 Data on the central Govemment's
organization of     * Reducc risk of                                             finances is available.
ministries: by 1995    modification or loss of data.
Training:              *   Annual strategic  * Motivated, productive,   In conjunction with the Data     Data Processing staff and staff from other
eHuman resources       plans.               well- trained staff       Processing Unit, MAFP trained Unit    Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
planning                                    * Improve the quality of   and Ministry of Finance and Public  areas trained in the use of the new
*Annual training program                    the Unit's results        Credit staff to use the new        technology.
-Expanded incentive                                                  technologies.
system
*Manuals, functions and
competitive salary ranges
Activities to:         *   Increase use of   * High user participation   The Ministry of Finance and Public  Data Processing staff and staff from other
*Create a data-oriented    systems by 90%   in systems development    Credit trained staff to use the new  Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
culture                *   Database         * Acquire systems         information tools. MAFP worked with  areas trained in the use of information
*Construct a data bank    containing information * Improve quality control  the Unit to provide the training.  tools.
*Improve technology    system projects [by]   * Improve user interfaces
1995 and used to
monitor 95% of all
projects [by] 1997
Tools for software
development and
multimedia technology
[by] 1994
Integrated             All staff communicate  Facilitate internal Ministry   The Intranet was installed in the first    All staff use the intemal Ministry of
Telecommunications     on-line              communication             half of 1997                       Finance and Public Credit communication
System -                                                                                                 tool and have been trained in new
Replaced by: Installation                                                                                technologies.
of the Ministry's Intranet
Development of an       *  An information   Increase efficiency and   *An integrated govermnent financial    46 central government agencies can
Integrated Financial   system that          standardize the processes for infomiation system was designed,  execute their budgets on line
Information System - SIIF  incorporates day-to-day managing govemment funds developed and implemented at 46
economic management and ensure a smooth flow of agencies.                        Agency management can obtain budget
processes           information                                                  execution information promptly for use in
*Design and content of general system   decision-making.
tables to integrate the system modules
(expenditures, revenues, PAC, CUN,    Transparency in budget execution
accounting, interfaces and
administration and security)       Operating efficiency in budget execution.
*Definition of requirements for    Operating under the principle of Treasury
Treasury module,                   unity.
*Pilot plan at ten (10) central    A single record is used for budget and
Government agencies to test software.   accounting management.
*Definition of user profiles       Installation of WAN and LAN
equipment at the Ministry of Finance and
*user manual                       Public Credit and at user agencies
*Service catalogues                Efficiency and effectiveness of
*Service catalogues       administrative and financial management
*Decree 2806 of December 29/2000    based on principles of law.
issuing provisions regarding the   Standardized, timely data management.
management of govemment funds and
the applicability of the Integrated  Presentation of available data based on
Financial Information System - SIIF    the requirements of the requester.
*Resolution 2404 was issued on     Ease of internal and subsequent controls.
- 45 -



October 15, 1998 assigning the
management of the system to the    Modernzation of communcations and the
Budget Office.                     data iEfi-structure.
eOn-line communication and practical  Knowledge of the status of budget
and theoretical training of user agency   execution for adequate follow-up and
technicians in SIIF and in how to  analysis of budget management.
operate and manage the Intranet.   Efficiency in managing goverment
*Procedures giude                  resources as a result of a decrease in
average idle funds in agencies' authorized
Installation of WAN and LAN        accounts.
equipment at the Ministsy of Finance    Lwropruiycssfrhnln
andqFubicpm rentt the Miniseryof Frnanci.  Treasury resources, given the availability
of additional information with which to
establish cash flow projections.
Validation with the Banco de la
Reptiblica of bank accounts of final
beneficiaries prior to confirmation of
payment orders.
Monitoring of annual and monthly goals
established by CONFIS. Distribution of
the annual and monthly Pac.
Evaluation of monthly Pac modification
requests and their impact on Colombia's
cash flow.
Knowledge of rights to collection of
Colombian Budget revenues.
Knowledge of the nation's revenue
receipts.
Standardized account records for
transactions with an economic impact
among all SIIF user agencies.
Availability of balance sheets for central
Government executing agencies, and of
- 14 theory and practice seminars (400  national balance sheets and income
attendees)                         statements.
- 18 update conferences (1500
attendees).                        Elimination of inadequate administrative
practices.
Training
Ease of internal financial area
communication with the rest of the
agencies' offices.
SIIF training for user agencies.
-46 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ miilion
A. Resource Mobilization
Tax Administration                              28.60          25.20           103
Treasury and Public Credit                      6.20            2.10            34
B. Macro-programnming                               1.30           1.76            106
C. Expenditure Management
Program-based Budgeting (Budget Programming)     5.47           2.33            20
Budget Spending (Execution) Accounting           3.83           0.66             7
D. Control and Public Policy Evaluation
Intemal Control (Public Policy Evaluation)      2.39            2.24            68
Extemal Control                                 2.15            2.24           249
E. Institutional Strengthening
Govenmuent Informatics(SIFF)                     1.97          13.06           816
Project Administration                           3.26           4.68           100
Total Baseline Cost                                55.17          54.27
Physical Contingencies                          2757.70
Total Project Costs        _ 2812.87          54.27   1
Total Financing Required        | 2812.87           54.27    _
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Me'thodl      :
Expenditure Category     ICB         r         MNthot
lcs ~    NC           KterONXBF               Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                    21.20         0.00         0.30         0.00         21.50
(21.20)      (0.00)       (0.30)        (0.00)      (21.50)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         4.20         20.40        24.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (4.20)       (0.00)       (4.20)
4. Training                  0.00         0.00         2.50          3.60        6.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.50)       (0.00)       (2.50)
5. Procurement Agent         0.00         0.00         1.80          3.90        5.70
Arrangements                (0.00)       (0.00)        (1.80)       (0.00)       (1.80)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
..__ _ .__  (0.00)  (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                    21.20         0.00          8.80        27.90        57.90
(21.20)       (0.00)      (8.80)        (0.00)      (30.00)
-47 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expend00:00:4  000.titure category       Procurement Method
ExpenditureCategoryt   i  ICB               NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                                                                                     0.00
O            (0.00)           0            (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         11.60           1.60           1.30          4.30           18.80
O            (0.00)           0            (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                      11.30           0.30           1.70          18.70         32.00
(0.00)         (0.00)           0            (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Training                      0.00            0.00           0.80           2.30          3.10
(0.00)         (0.00)           0            (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Procurement Agent             0.00            0.00                          0.30          0.30
Arrangements                    (0.00)          (0.00)           0            (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         22.90           1.90           3.80          25.60          54.20
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
The breakup of project costs by procurement arrangement in terms of source of financing is awaited from
the borrower.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage ;of Appraisal1
Compne                 2 t  Appraisal Estimate           Achialatest Estimate _
__________________S :; ;; X gBan    i Govt.   CoP        Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
Goods                    20.60                           14.68      4.18               71.3
Services                  6.00      20.40                13.53      18.48              225.5   90.6
Training                  2.50      3.60                 0.81       2.28               32.4   63.3
Procurement Agent         0.90      3.90                            0.30                0.0    7.7
Arrangements
Total                    30.00      27.90                29.01      25.25              96.7   90.5
-48 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N.A.
- 49 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/93                        7   Task Manager, 2 Tax Specialists,    S             S
Informatics Specialist, Audit and
Procurement Advisors,
Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/93                        2   Task Manager, Operations            S             S
Analyst
Supervision
06/94                        4   Task Manager, Systems               S             S
Specialist, Tax Admin.
Specialist, Operations
Analyst
10/94                        3   Task Manager, Prin. Inst. Dev.      S             S
Spec., Tax Admin. Specialist
06/95                        3   Task Manager, Procurement           S             HS
Specialist, Operations Analyst
06/96                        4   Task Manager, Tax Admin.            S             S
Specialist, Procurement
Specialist, Operations Specialist
09/96                        4   Task Manager, Procurement          HS             HS
Specialist, Operations Specialist,
Sr. Tax Admin. Spec.
02/97                        4   Task Manager, Procurement           S             S
Spec., Operations Analyst,
Audit/Accounting Specialist
12/97                        3   Task Manager, Operations            S             S
Analyst, Project Officer
06/98                        3   Task Manager, Operations            S             S
Analyst, Project Officer
06/99                        3   Task Manager, Sr. Fin. Mang.        S             S
Spec.
02/00                        3   Task Manager, Sr. Fin. Mang.        S             S
Spec.
08/00                        2   Task Manager, Operations            S             S
Anaylst
ICR
05/01                        2    Task Manager, Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
- 50 -



Identification/Preparation                92.0                        178.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     12.3                         27.1
Supervision                              160.3                        357.8
ICR                                        3.0                         15.0
Total                                    267.6                        578.2
- 51 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
3Macro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                O H OSUOM O N * NA
3 Financial                               OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
 Institutional Development               * H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
3 Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
? Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
 Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
rO Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 52 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
F Lending                                            OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Supervision                                        OHS OS  O U   O HU
? Overall                                            OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
 Preparation                                        OHS OS  OU  O HU
  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agencyperformance                   O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Overall                                            OHS *S O U O HU
- 53 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
*      Staff Appraisal Report, No. 12167-Co, October 21, 1993
*      Loan Agreement No. 3669-Co, February 9, 1994
*      Colombia: Country Financial Management Assessment, September 1998
*      Project Appraisal Document, Public Financial Management Project II, Report No. 21856-CO, February
26, 2001
*      Supervision Reports, Aide Memoire, and Matrices of Performance Indicators - May 1994 - May 2001.
*      "Lucha contra la corrupcion", Foros de interes ciudadano, Estrategias para la solucion al problema de la
corrupcion,
Contraloria General de la Republica (CGR).
*      Informe Final de Humberto Cote Pena, Coordinador Tecnico Nacional, Proyecto MAFP-DIAN, 24 de julio
de 2000.
*      Informe Final de Mariano Arturo Gutierrez, Coordinador Nactional, MAFP-DIAN, julio de 1999.
*      Informe Final de Henry Alfonso Riveros Pabon, Componente Subproyecto Informatico DIAN, Junio 2000.
- 54 -



- 55 -






MAP SECTION






_____________________________________________________________________IBRD 26153
NAS                ~~~~~Atlantic
CO LOM B I A                                                                                          AXs  t;F Coribbean SeOce
RICAVEEEL 
SANTAPEDE    TA 01              (P      AtA
5arduMorhlz _/                              4                 </-COtOMBI   Lv <.,< 
ATLArN;IC,   g L               t           /            >4ECUADOR)
spar                                |                               BRAZIL
PERU
Vg,  g g aMac                                                   B c 7c  BOLIVIA t.
\  @.,/  r{OPARAG\AY
-EPAN AMA                         Monteri                                                                                 iARE T\NA
>   \>  C    \ S   $ P0&  )RTE                       )0-    The boundaries, colors, denominations
DOJ~~    r'                    E   \                                      and any other inforrmotion shown on
/ COR DOA                       1NDER'                                                this mop do not imply, on the port of
8v                                1                                                 S t    *  4:  S   1   2 S   f    s l s l l ;41  The World Bonk Group, any judgment
V  9  t   /      t1                IOfj )  fl  S   J               f       on the legal status of any territory, or
7   any endorsement or acceptance o -
1 1' s  %|  s  R   i S  X   Ducorol u  k ;such boundaries--_
P e C > f . *  g           t                 j~             ~            ~~~SAN  A RAUA                  V   NE  Z U E L A 
0                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Carreilo
4.~~~~~~~6
Oc e o7 r/pj                         |l |           z                                                         V I C H A D A S-
> ~~~~ AAM E T AtS 
~~~   \_  ~~~~~~~~C  A   (  U                          T A                                      Mi t 'rlA u,4g_
_F><    p (                           C               t,, ~~~~V A U P E S 
' E C  U  A  D  OR                              0                                    ygAl
MILES
X          \)                    t  t                50   10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 15iO
* 0   50  100  150  200  250
KILOMETERS
AMAZONAS
8 R A  Z I L
ELEVATION ABOVE 1000 METERS
O     NATIONAL CAPITAL
o     DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                             P    E
--'--~-  RIVERS                                         P    E    R    U
- -   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                -
7                                                74                                                                                         4-
AUGUST 1994



