Page  1
August 1995
Mr. Guillermo Perry
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Santafe de Bogota
Ref:
Loan 3669-CO. Public Financial Management. 
Amendment to the Loan Agreement. 
Procurement and Disbursement Provisions.
Dear Mr. Perry:
This is in connection with Loan Agreement for the above Project between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) dated February 9, 1994 (the Loan Agreement).
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank is in agreement with the changes 
proposed by the Borrower to some of the procurement and disbursement provisions under 
the Loan, in order to enable a more efficient Project implementation.
The proposed changes to the Loan Agreement are as follows:
(a)
The percentage of expenditures to be financed under Category (1) Goods, 
in the table set forth in paragraph 1. of Schedule 1. to the Loan Agreement, is hereby 
amended to read as
follows: "100% of foreign expenditures and 86% of local expenditures".
(b)
Paragraph 2. of Schedule 1. to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended by 
inserting immediately  after the definition of the term "foreign expenditures", the 
following:  "and the
term  "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or  for 
goods and services supplied from the territory of the Borrower."
(c)
The reference to "this Part A" in paragraph 1 (b) of Part A of Section I 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read "Parts A and C.1 of this 
Section I".
(d)
Part C of Section I of Schedule is hereby divided into 2 paragraphs, to 
read as follows:
"1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 below, mini-computers or 
other goods 
related to mini-computer systems which cannot be grouped pursuant to Part 
A.2 hereof may be 
procured under contracts awarded through: (i) limited 
international bidding procedures on 
the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids 
invited from a list of qualified suppliers: 
(A) of informatic equipment able to 
provide suitable maintenance and other services to the 
goods to be purchased; (B) 
who are eligible under the Guidelines and whose number shall have  been agreed with the 
Bank; and (ii) procedures which are in accordance with the provisions 
of Sections I 
and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 
thereof); provided, however, that each contract to be so awarded shall have been 
estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000.
 
2.
Goods referred to in 1 above and miscellaneous office equipment 
and supplies  may be procured after soliciting price quotations from reputable 
suppliers to the extent 
that each contract, and the aggregate of all 
contracts, so awarded, do not exceed the 
equivalent of $100,000 and 
$1,000,000, respectively; provided, however, that if any such 
contract is 
estimated to cost $50,000 or more, the list of supplies to be used and the 
specific procedures to be followed shall be previously agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank."
 
Page  2
(e)
The reference to Part A above in Part E of Section I of Schedule 4 to the 
Loan Agreement is  hereby amended to read "Parts A and C above".
(f)
Paragraph 2. of Section II. of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement, is 
hereby amended by increasing the prior review threshold for consulting firms from 
$20,000 to $50,000, and by excluding  from the prior review requirements certain 
contracts relating to the engagement of individual consultants, up to an amount of 
$20,000. Thus, Paragraph 2. shall read as follows:
"Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of the 
Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists, 
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts for
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each or to contracts 
for individual consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent each, to the 
extent such contracts have not exceeded, in the aggregate, the amount of $5,000,000 
equivalent. However,  the aforesaid exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to 
the terms of reference for such contracts, to single source selection of firms or 
individuals, to assignments of critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent for consulting firms or $20,000 equivalent for individual 
consultants, respectively".
If you are in agreement with the terms of this letter and the amendment proposal 
in its entirety, please sign on behalf of the Borrower, as its representative under 
Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement, the form of confirmation attached to this letter. 
Once the said form has been signed, kindly have it sent to us for our records.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Krishna Challa
Acting Country Director
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
_______________________________
 
