Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3669 CO
Loan Agreement
(Public Financial Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 9, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3669 CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 9, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Accountant General Law" means a law that shall organize the functions 
and responsibilities of the office of the Borrower's Accountant General established by 
Article 354 of the Borrower's Constitution;
(b)
"Administrative Agency" means each of the Borrower's Ministries, DNP and 
the four legal entities within the jurisdiction of one or more of said Ministries, 
with budgetary autonomy and governed by the provisions of the Borrower's Decree No. 
2132 dated December 29, 1992, and such other entities with similar characteristics, 
but governed by other Borrower's legal provisions, as the Borrower and the Bank shall 
agree from time to time to include in this definition;
(c)
"Annual Operational Program" means each annual operational program agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(d)
"CGR" means Contraloria General de la Republica the Borrower's Office of 
the Comptroller General established, by Chapter 1, Title X of the Borrower's 
Constitution and "CGR Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 42 of January 26, 1993 that 
established and organized CGR;
(e)
"DNP" means Departamento Nacional de Planeacion the Borrower's National 
Planning Directorate;
(f)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
 
(g)
"Resolution" means a Resolution to be issued by the Borrower's Consejo 
Nacional de Politica Economica y Social (National Council for Economic and Social 
Policy) requiring each
Administrative Agency to establish in each of said Agencies internal procedures to 
monitor adequate execution of the activities for which resources have been budgeted to 
such Agency in the corresponding Borrower's annual budget;
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(i)
"Treasury" means the Ministry's Tesoreria.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of thirty million dollars 
($30,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Borrower's Banco de la Republica on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  3
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period. 
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Parts A.1 and E.1 of
the Project through the Ministry, Parts B and C.1 of the Project through the Ministry 
in close coordination with DNP, Part C.2 of the Project through the Ministry in close 
coordination with CGR, Part D.1 of the Project through DNP, Part D.2 of the Project 
through CGR and the respective portions of Part E.2 of the Project related to the 
Ministry, DNP or CGR, as the case may be, through the Ministry, DNP and CGR, 
respectively, all with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, informatics and audit practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, 
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower 
and the Bank; (ii) establish and maintain through Project execution administrative 
units in both the Ministry and DNP, and maintain CGR's training unit, all under terms 
of reference and assisted with such staff, as shall be satisfactory to the Bank; (iii) 
establish a coordination committee comprising
exclusively representatives of both the Ministry and DNP, and after it becomes 
operational, CGR also, such committee to operate under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank; and (iv) provide
each of the aforesaid units and committee with the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required to enable each of them to perform their respective functions 
in regard to the carrying out
of the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) without limitation to the provisions 
of Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
for approval for
purposes of the Project, by October 31 of each year, starting on October 31, 1993, its 
proposed annual operational program, such program to be of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, inter alia to include: (A) a detailed list of the Project 
activities to be executed and expenditures to be incurred, in respect of each of the 
Parts of the Project, during
the immediately following year; and (B) a list of the Borrower's agencies or third 
parties selected to participate in Project activities or to assist the Borrower, 
through contractual arrangements, in the carrying out thereof, all during the 
immediately following year.
(b)
The Bank shall determine, by comparing the action taken during the year 
in question against a set of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, 
whether the progress made in
the carrying out of the Project justifies the approval by the Bank for purposes of the 
Project of the annual operational program in question.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall introduce such changes into each proposed 
annual operational program as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, and 
once agreement shall have been reached on a program and notice of agreement on such 
program (Annual Operational Program) given by the Bank to the Borrower, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the applicable Annual Operational 
Program, and shall not change any such Program without the Bank's acquiescence.
(d)
The Borrower shall refrain from submitting to the Bank withdrawal 
applications from the Loan Account in respect of expenditures not included in the 
Page  5
applicable Annual Operational
Program.
Section 3.04. Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of Section 
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower may employ management and/or procurement services 
to be assisted in the carrying out of the Project provided, however, that: (a) the 
services in question are provided under one or more contracts, all under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to be entered
into, on behalf of the Borrower, by one or more of the Administrative Agencies 
specifically mentioned in paragraph (a) of such Section 3.01 with one or more legal 
entities acceptable to the Bank; and (b) the services in question are procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof, including Agencies, DNP, CGR and the Office of the Borrower's 
Accountant General.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Page  6
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Ministry, DNP or CGR shall have been dissolved or disestablished or 
reorganized in a way which, in the opinion of the Bank, may affect materially and 
adversely the carrying out of the Project; or
(b)
the Resolution or CGR Law or the Accountant General Law shall have been 
amended or abrogated in a way that may affect materially and adversely the carrying 
out of Parts D.1, D.2 and
C.2 of the Project, respectively, or the compliance by the Borrower of its related 
obligations under this Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that the event specified in 
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Annual Operational Program for 1994 shall have been completed 
and put into effect by the Borrower; and
(b)
that the units in the Ministry and DNP referred to in Section 3.01 
(b)(ii) of this Agreement, and the committee referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of 
this Agreement, have been
established.
Section 6.02. The date of May 10, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Edificio de los Ministerios
Santa Fe de Bogota
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
44473 MHACCO
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
Page  7
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Enrique Umana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Goods                     20,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(2) Consultants'               6,000,000        100%
    services and
    fees under
    contracts pro-
    vided for in
    Section 3.04 of
    this Agreement
(3) Training                   2,500,000        100%
(4) Unallocated                  900,000
Page  8
                              __________
         TOTAL                30,000,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
expenditures incurred in any given year unless: (i) the Bank shall have 
sent to the Borrower the notice referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement in respect of the corresponding Annual Operational Program; and (ii) the 
expenditures in question shall have been included in such Program; and
(c)
expenditures in respect of Parts C.2 or D.1 of the Project, unless the 
Accountant General Law has been enacted by the Borrower's Congress, promulgated by the 
Borrower's Executive
Branch and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette, and the Resolution shall have 
been issued and published, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and services 
not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 and $20,000, respectively, provided, however, 
that the preceding provisions shall apply to consultant contracts only when the 
exception of prior Bank review stipulated in Section II.2 of
Schedule 4 to this Loan Agreement does also apply to such contract.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to foster quality information flows so as 
to help decision making processes in every Administrative Agency while preserving and 
reinforcing their
autonomy; and (b) to improve the management of public finances in Colombia through the 
definition, installation and deployment of accountability principles and procedures 
within selected national
entities as a preliminary step before their implementation throughout all levels of 
public administration, such objectives to be achieved by means of the establishment of 
an integrated public financial information system by the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Resource Mobilization
 
1.
Tax Administration: Improving current tax administration through the 
implementation of an information subsystem (Subsystem One) which will put together a 
self-contained tax administration
and its interfaces with the overall public financial information system. Subsystem One 
will be geared to enhance and facilitate voluntary compliance with tax obligations as 
well as to improve evasion control capabilities, to complete a single taxpayer current 
account to help monitoring withholding agents, collection offices and late payments, 
and to provide information flows to facilitate the analysis of the economic impact of 
different tax policy alternatives. Additionally, decentralized modules of Subsystem 
One will further service the computerization needs of a series of critical public 
functions such as budget, personnel and administrative careers, procurement of goods 
and services, internal control, efficiency control and management of fiscal assets. 
Related norms and procedures will be prepared and manuals will be published on the 
basis of the current legal provisions and the technical features of the said 
Page  9
Subsystem. For purposes of achieving the
aforesaid, this Part of the Project will also include acquisition, installation and 
utilization of required computer hardware and software, training of Ministry staff and 
acquisition, and utilization of consultant services.
2.
Treasury and Public Credit: Treasury: (a) Consolidating the cash management 
system of the national public administration under Treasury and making the existing 
legal framework operative by
drafting required procedures and regulations therefor and undertaking the necessary 
organizational changes in the Ministry; (b) designing and implementing a related 
information subsystem (Subsystem Two) to help define and monitor financial indicators 
for the control and management of national public funds available in Colombia and 
abroad; (c) designing software packages aimed at keeping track of flows of public 
funds used by each public agency; (d) designing a system that will enable continuous 
evaluation of financial instrument markets; (e) designing linkages among the 
Subsystems referred to in the Project; Public Credit: (f) training programs to develop 
human resources in areas such as debt portfolio, financial management law and debt 
policies; (g) updating of administrative procedures, functions and job 
responsibilities, including implementation of internal control rules and their 
corresponding manuals; and (h) designing and implementing the public credit 
information subsystem as an integral part of Subsystem Two. For purposes of achieving 
the aforesaid, this Part of the Project will also include acquisition, installation 
and utilization of a computer network for management of information flows by 
Administrative Agencies, utilization of consultant services and training of Ministry 
staff including tutorial training, study tours, and formal courses for about 300 
people.
Part B:
Macroprogramming
 
Establishing an information subsystem in the Ministry and DNP (Subsystem Three), 
linked with all information Subsystems under the Project, to improve the Borrower's 
Executive Branch's current
macroplanning of financial expenditures by enabling it to use all macroeconomic 
variables that have implications and an effect on public investment programming. 
Subsystem Three, including the norms, procedures and manuals therefor, shall also help 
consolidating working relationship among DNP, the Ministry and the Borrower's Banco de 
la Republica, particularly with concern to changes in the approved expenditure program 
of the Borrower and impact thereof on monetary and exchange policies. For purposes of 
achieving the aforesaid, this Part of the Project shall also include studies to 
modernize and improve the Borrower's macroeconomic financial programming and financial 
plan, utilization of consultant services, acquisition, installation and utilization of 
adequate hardware, software and related equipment, training of about 30 DNP and 
Ministry staff and acquisition and utilization of a technical library.
Part C:
Expenditures Management
 
1.
Program-Based and Current Expenditure Budgeting: Establishing an information 
system, interconnecting the Administrative Agencies' budget units, aimed at generating 
program-based and current expenditure budgets (Subsystem Four) for said Administrative 
Agencies, as well as providing said Agencies with evaluation information that shall 
enable them to improve their budgeting practices, from investment requirements 
definition to project generation. Subsystem Four shall, at a later stage, record any 
new national investment. For purposes of achieving the aforesaid, this
Part of the Project shall also include the utilization of consultant services, the 
acquisition, installation and utilization of computer hardware and software, and 
training workshops for about 1,500 staff members of the Administrative Agencies in 
which the Subsystems under the Project are being installed, and study tours for about 
5 public servants in each of DNP and the Ministry to be selected by DNP and the 
Ministry, respectively.
2.
National Accounting System: Development of a comprehensive accounting system 
throughout the public sector, consistent with accounting practices and procedures 
generally accepted in Colombia, through an information subsystem in the Accountant 
General's office (Subsystem Five), to ensure uniformity of accounting procedures and 
classifications. A study shall be executed, a unified accounting plan shall be 
prepared on the basis of the recommendations of said study and related manuals shall 
be put into effect. For purposes of achieving the aforesaid, this Part of the Project 
Page  10
shall also include utilization of consultant services, acquisition, installation and 
utilization of related computing equipment, and training of Ministry staff and study 
tours for the managers of the Accountant General's office.
Part D:
Public Policy Control and Evaluation
 
1.
Monitor and ex-post Evaluation of Public Policy Program and Project Performance:
 
Developing and putting into effect a specific unit within DNP, of a system 
(Subsystem Six) which will institutionalize throughout the Administrative Agencies the 
monitoring and ex-post evaluation of public policy sectoral program and specific 
project performance, so as to enable said Agencies to feed back the results into their 
respective budgetary and managerial decisions as follows:
(a)
design and development of an annual program of public policy evaluation 
to be presented to the Borrower's Executive Branch;
(b)
setting up the institutional and legal framework necessary for Subsystem 
Six including the organizational procedures and information requirements necessary to 
fit the evaluation process;
(c)
putting into effect guidelines on sectoral programs, and projects 
performance and public policy evaluation in order to enhance the evaluation 
capabilities of the Administrative
Agencies;
(d)
execution of a pilot program to promote and consolidate evaluation units 
in selected Administrative Agencies which could be easily replicated through the 
remainder of the Administrative Agencies with their own funds;
(e)
organization on the basis of the experience gained under this Part of the 
Project, of evaluation units in the Administrative Agencies which perform the 
evaluation of sectoral policies and program and project performance.
For purposes of achieving the aforesaid, this Part of the Project shall also include 
utilization of consultant services, basic and advanced training activities for about 
900 public servants to
enable them to implement new procedures adequately in their respective public sector 
entities, as selected by DNP, acquisition, installation and utilization of informatics 
equipment to establish
required links between Subsystem Six and other Subsystems under the Project, and 
preparation, printing and dissemination of related manuals.
2.
External Control: Complement on-going activities geared to the modernization of 
ex-post external control of public entities towards the goal of making CGR a center of 
excellence in the area of fiscal control of said entities including: (a) a basic 
financial auditing
program for about 48 nonfinancial advanced students selected within CGR staff members; 
(b) an advanced financial auditing program for about 120 CGR staff members mainly 
responsible for audits of accounts and records related to expenditures financed with 
resources from external sources; (c) causing the obtainment of master degrees or 
equivalent in audit and financial management related to
technical specialties by about 26 CGR staff members; (d) production of three seminars 
for about 120 CGR staff members each, on each of the following subjects: fiscal 
performance and control of results, environmental audits, and analytical audit and 
financial analysis; (e) production of a seminar on quality control of state public 
auditors for about 40 CGR staff members; and (f) provision of fellowships for about 6 
outstanding students. This Part of the Project will also include the development of a 
module to interconnect the national budget execution information in CGR's possession 
with the overall public financial information system through the utilization of 
consultant services, training and installation and utilization of related computer 
equipment.
Part E:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Strengthening Government Informatics: As a result of the Subsystems that will 
become operational under the Project, the Borrower Executive Branch's informatics 
Page  11
capacity requires to be
enhanced, including the existing Ministry's and DNP's informatics units. For that 
purpose the Borrower will be required to achieve an integrated software engineering in 
order to facilitate the
integration of the public financial management Subsystems to be established under the 
Project, and to ensure that information flows are accurate, made in a timely fashion 
,and increasingly credible
and useful. To achieve said results, inter-institutional relationships will be defined 
and enforced, by means of setting forth norms and standards to be used throughout the 
public sector, so as to ensure consistency and economy in the engineering of the 
corresponding integrated system. For purposes of achieving the aforesaid, this Part of 
the Project shall include utilization of  consultant services, training of about 175 
engineers of the aforesaid informatics units and of other existing Ministry's, DNP's 
and CGR's information subunits, and about other 100 public servant
users selected by such units, and acquisition, installation and utilization of 
equipment.
2.
Project Administration: Organization of the units and committee, referred to in 
paragraphs (b) (ii) and (iii), respectively, of Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement, 
and assistance to public entities selected to be part of the Subsystem program under 
the Project, to be achieved through the acquisition and utilization of: (a) about 8 
person/months of consultant services specialized in organizational and institutional 
development; (b) about 144 person/months of consultant services specialized in 
organization and public financial management, to assist the Ministry and DNP and in 
training, to assist CGR; (c) about 144 person/months of support staff; and (d) office 
equipment, including telecommunication equipment and a personal computer in each of 
the units.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
July 1, 1999                                        560,000
January 1, 2000                                     580,000
July 1, 2000                                        605,000
January 1, 2001                                     625,000
July 1, 2001                                        650,000
January 1, 2002                                     675,000
July 1, 2002                                        700,000
January 1, 2003                                     725,000
July 1, 2003                                        750,000
January 1, 2004                                     780,000
July 1, 2004                                        810,000
January 1, 2005                                     840,000
July 1, 2005                                        870,000
January 1, 2006                                     900,000
July 1, 2006                                        935,000
January 1, 2007                                     970,000
July 1, 2007                                      1,005,000
January 1, 2008                                   1,045,000
July 1, 2008                                      1,080,000
January 1, 2009                                   1,120,000
July 1, 2009                                      1,165,000
January 1, 2010                                   1,205,000
July 1, 2010                                      1,250,000
January 1, 2011                                   1,300,000
July 1, 2011                                      1,345,000
January 1, 2012                                   1,395,000
July 1, 2012                                      1,450,000
January 1, 2013                                   1,500,000
Page  12
July 1, 2013                                      1,560,000
January 1, 2014                                   1,605,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                       0.15
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.30
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.55
      not more than eleven years
      before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.80
      more than sixteen years
      before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                 0.90
      more than eighteen years
      before maturity
More than eighteen years before                 1.00
      maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by 
two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all 
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid 
Page  13
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes 
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.
Mini-computer systems shall be grouped so as to form, to the extent possible, 
bidding packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
3.
Since in all likelihood it will not be desirable or practical to prepare 
detailed technical specifications in advance for the procurement of most goods to be 
financed under the Loan, a two-step procedure consistent with paragraph 2.7 of the 
Guidelines and satisfactory to the Bank shall be followed, except in those cases where 
the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed that an
invitation to bid under Part A.1 may proceed under a one-step procedure or other 
procedure.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Mini-computer or other goods related to mini-computer systems which cannot be 
grouped pursuant to Part A.2 hereof, miscellaneous office equipment and supplies may 
be procured after soliciting price quotations internationally from reputable suppliers 
to the extent that each contract, and the aggregate of all contracts, so awarded, do 
not exceed the equivalent of $50,000 and $300,000, respectively.
Part D:
Other Procurement Provisions
 
Without limitation upon the provision of the Guidelines, in respect of 
procurement of goods and works under Part A of this Schedule and, only in respect of 
(f) below, under Parts A and C
thereof:
(a)
no requirements shall be made of local agents for foreign bidders, or for 
certification by Colombian consular authorities of translations into Spanish of 
support documentation in cases where the bidder assumes the responsibility for errors 
of the translation in question;
(b)
no prior registration of foreign bidders shall be required;
 
(c)
no provision regarding minimum number of bidders shall be applied;
 
(d)
bids of goods shall be evaluated on a cost, insurance, freight (c.i.f.) 
basis;
(e)
freight costs quoted by each bidder shall be used for purposes of bid 
evaluation; and
(f)
awards shall be made to the lowest evaluated bidders, and no bidder shall 
be disqualified because the price of the corresponding bid falls above or below a 
predetermined given value unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, or out of a 
post-bid-presentation-determined price band.
2.
Unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall 
invite bids in regard to the procurement of goods for the Project under Part C.1 of 
this Schedule exclusively on the basis of standard documents agreed with the Bank from 
time to time and shall inform the Bank on any proposed departure from said documents 
before any such tender is made public.
Page  14
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with Part A above 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for 
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of thecontract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the 
Bank.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
each to the extent such contracts have not exceeded, in the aggregate the amount of 
$5,000,000 equivalent. However, the aforesaid exception to prior Bank review shall not 
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts or to the employment of 
individuals, to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature 
as reasonably determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the 
contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be required to ensure that:
1.
In respect of Part A.1 of the Project: (a) the short-term evasion control under 
Part. A.l of the Project will have been completed by July 31, 1994; and (b) without 
limitation to the provisions of (a) above, tax collection amounts during the first 
semester of 1994 will have increased in real terms by not less than 1% over the 
Page  15
amounts collected during the same period of 1993.
2.
In respect of Part A.2 of the Project: (a) by December 31, 1994, norms and 
procedures for purposes of Part A.2 of the Project will have been defined in related 
manuals in accordance with the features of Subsystem Two, and Treasury staff will have 
been trained to apply said norms and follow said procedures; (b) by December 31, 1997 
all of Part A.2 will have been carried out; (c) by December 31, 1995, Treasury 
internal control procedures will be fully operational and showing a satisfactory level 
of performance for the entire Treasury administration; (d) by December 31, 1996, all 
flows of information originated in Treasury will be reliable, issued in a timely 
fashion and feeding the macroprogramming function adequately, particularly concerning 
the making of investments decisions; and (e) by December 31, 1995, public cash flows 
will have been improved to a level that will permit the closing of all Treasury bank 
accounts currently dormant.
3.
In respect of Part B of the Project: (a) coordination and information flow for 
purposes of Part B of the Project will be in place by December 31, 1995, including the 
manuals therefor; and
(b) macroeconomic information will be ready to reach the entities selected by the 
Borrower for this purpose and said entities will have put into effect the 
corresponding norms to receive said information, all by December 31, 1996.
4.
In respect of Part C.1 of the Project: (a) by December 31, 1994, sectoral 
programs of activities will be delineated through the use of program-based and current 
expenditure sectoral budgets; (b) Subsystem Four shall be interconnected at national 
level by December 31, 1995; (c) by December 31, 1995, DNP will have installed a 
parallel subsystem for budgeting transfers to the Borrower's Departments, 
Municipalities and Districts, including a monitoring subsystem; (d) the budget to be 
presented to the Borrower's Congress for fiscal year 1997 will be prepared and 
consolidated on the basis of Subsystem Four; (e) by December 31, 1997 Subsystem Four 
shall
have been extended to all Agencies; and (f) 80% of managerial, professional and 
technical staff of the Ministry's Budget Directorate and DNP's Public Investment Unit 
will have been trained under the Project by December 31, 1995 and the remainder of 
said staff, plus that of all of the budget offices of the Borrower's Administrative 
Agencies by December 31, 1996.
5.
In respect of Part C.2 of the Project: (a) the Accountant General will be 
selected, and the office thereof will be fully staffed, all by June 30, 1994; (b) the 
transfer from the Comptroller's Office of all related documentation, files and 
registries will be completed by December 31, 1994; (c) by December 31, 1995, Subsystem 
Five and the manuals and procedures therefor will be completed; (d) by December 31, 
1995 Subsystem Five will be interconnected with other Subsystems under the Project; 
(e) by December 31, 1995 accounting offices will be structured and begin operations 
throughout the national administration; and (f) a general opening balance shall be 
prepared by June 30, 1996.
6.
In respect of Part D.1 of the Project: (a) monitoring and ex-post evaluation 
units will be established in public entities selected by DNP in each year of Project 
execution, in accordance
with the plan corresponding for the year in question under each respective Annual 
Operational Program; (b) by December 31, 1995 methodologies and manuals for monitoring 
and ex-post evaluation
will be approved by DNP, and the distribution of the said manual will have started; 
(c) by December 31, 1995, the related information system will have been put in 
operation and DNP will have acquired, to the satisfaction of the Bank and the 
Borrower, the capacity and authority to validate the information in question; (d) by 
December 31, 1995, the first evaluation of results, obtained through the use of 
Subsystem Six, will have been made available to the Borrower's President by means of a 
consolidated report submitted by DNP together with the first public policy evaluation 
produced by each selected sector; (e) starting with the year of 1996, the frequency of 
such evaluations per sector will be of not less than two per each year; and (f) by 
December 31, 1996, DNP will become able to contribute to the macroprogramming process 
through the utilization of, inter-alia, Subsystem Six.
SCHEDULE 6
Page  16
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
Page  17
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by
notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
