Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14687
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2900-ZIM)
JUNE 23, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =    Z$1.7 at appraisal
Z$1.00         =    US$0.6 at appraisal
US$1           =    Z$8.03 current
Z$1.00         =    US$0.12 current
Z$1.00         =     100 Zimbabwe cents (Z;Z)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)           1 million kilowatt hours
1 kilovolt (kV)            =    1,000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)            =    1,000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)      =    1,000 watt hours
kVA, MVA                   =   kilovolt ampere, Megavolt ampere
1 Megawatt (MW)            =    1,000 kilowatts
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPC        -   Central African Power Corporation
CDC         -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
EIB         -   European Investment Bank
ESMAP       -   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FINNIDA   -   Finnish International Development Agency
MIS         -   Management Information System
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Program
ZESA        -   Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZESCO       -   Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZRA         -   Zambezi River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .(iv)
EVALUATION SUMMARY   .............................................   (v)
The Project and its Objectives ....................................... (v)
Implementation Experience and Summary of Findings  ..........           .................. (v)
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned  ..................              ............    (vi)
PART I                   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                 I
A. Introduction..                                                                 I
B. Project Objectives and the Project       ..                                    2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives        ..                                    3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors
Affecting the Project.                                                        3
E. Project Sustainability.                                                        7
F. Bank Performance.                                                              8
G. Borrower Performance              ..                                           9
H. Assessment of Outcomes            ..                                           9
1. Future Operation .10
J. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II                  STATISTICAL ANNEXES ................................. 12
Table  1: Summary of Assessments                                                 13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual             .        .       .16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
and for Project Operation              .        .         .17
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 7A: Project Costs                           ..                             19
Table 7B: Project Financing           ..20
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits .21
Table 9A-9D: Status of Legal Covenants         ..22
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs       ..26
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions          ..27
APPENDICES               A. Borrower Contribution to the !CR (in five pages) .28
B. Map .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                  I






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER 11 PROJECT
(Loan 2900-ZMI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Power Project in Zimbabwe,
for which loan 2900-Zim in the amount of US$ 44 million (equivalent) was approved on January 12,
1988 and made effective on January 16, 1989.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, two years after the original closing date and after two
extensions. Final disbursement took place on September 22, 1994, and the remaining balance of US$
208,188 was cancelled. The African Development Bank (ADB), the Dutch and Norwegian Governments
provided the equivalent of US$ 21.2 million, US$ 5.0 million and US$ 7.3 million, respectively. The
total foreign exchange cost of the project was financed by the above, while ZESA financed the local cost
of the project through internal cash generation and local borrowing.
In addition, CDC was to have provided US$ 21.7 million equivalent for the uprating and
rehabilitation of the Kariba South hydro plant jointly owned by Zimbabwe and Zambia from pre-
independence days. ZESA and the Government did not comply with the covenanted valuation of the
Kariba assets and the sharing thereof between Zimbabwe and Zambia, an issue which has now been
referred to international arbitration. However, ZESA has been rehabilitating critical features of Kariba
South and is mobilizing loans and own resources, totalling about US$ 38 million equivalent, for the
uprating of the 6 generating units from 666MW to 750MW. In light of this, ZESA's commitment under
the loan to implement this project component is deemed satisfied for the purposes of the ICR, although
the uprating works may not be completed until about 1998.
The ICR was prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division of Southern Africa
Department and reviewed by John Roome, Acting Division Chief, and Jacomina de Regt, Acting
Operations Advisor. The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendix to the ICR. The
comments of the cofinanciers are quoted in connection with the ICR's paragraphs 30 and 32.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in
August 1994. It is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of
the ICR by providing relevant information especially on project costs and by preparing its own evaluation.






- iv -
ZIMBABWE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2900-ZIM)
Evaluation Summary
THE PROJECT AND ITS OBJECTIVES
1.    The Power II loan is the Bank's second energy sector loan to Zimbabwe after independence in
1980. The loan was made to the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority to help finance the Power II
project. The project's main objectives were to: (i) improve reliability and quality of power supply
through rehabilitation and extension of power facilities; and (ii) enhance institutional development of the
power sub-sector through manpower development, technical assistance support for critical area of its
operations, and through establishment of a management information system.
2.    To achieve the above objectives, the Power II project: (i) provided for the uprating of the 666MW
Kariba South hydroelectric power plant, generating an additional 84MW upon completion; (ii) carried
out system studies and extended the high voltage transmission system; (iii) reinforced the distribution
system; (iv) provided spares and materials for preventive maintenance and overhauling of the Hwange
coal-fired power plant and expert services therefor; (v) provided technical support in key areas of Hwange
plant operation and for ZESA's corporate planning activities; (vi) established a management information
system through provision and installation of hardware and software; and (vii) assisted in the procurement
of workshop equipment and vehicles.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
3.    The project has achieved its objectives ini the areas of improving system reliability and
performance and operational efficiency. The rehabilitation of Hwange power plant has improved the
performance of the country's major thermal generating plant, maintaining plant availability at or above
79 % and accounting for almost 56 % of the total of ZESA's generation during the implementation period
(FYs 1990-1994). Uprating of the Kariba South power plant, a major component to provide additional
capacity, has been delayed due to non-compliance by ZESA of CDC's precondition of effectiveness;
Kariba uprating is expected to be completed by about 1998 under a new financing arrangement. The
distribution reinforcement has helped reduce overloading parts of the network thereby reducing voltage
drops in certain localities and enabling connection of new customers. The impact of the transmission
expansion in improving system reliability and reducing transmission losses will be known during the
performance monitoring of 1996, about one year after the transmission work is completed (estimated third
quarter 1995, para. 12). The strengthening of the utility through the installation of the MIS was probably
the objective which was most satisfactorily met (para. 26).
4.    The scope of the Operations Support was modified whereby much less funds than budgeted were
allocated for the employment of management consultancy to operate Hwange. Funds so released were
fruitfully used to purchase spares for Hwange and to carry out the mandatory major overhaul of one



v -
240MW unit (over 25% of station capacity). Funds were also made available for the employment of
individual consultants for planning and advising on the installation of the MIS.
5.     ZESA did not comply with the financial covenants. The tariffs were low and ZESA did not
generate the required funds for its development effort. Its assets were also not revalued mainly because
of the deadlock which emerged on the indices to be used for the valuation of the Kariba assets jointly
owned by Zimbabwe and Zambia from pre-independence days. The two governments have lately referred
the issue to international arbitration. This valuation was a precondition of CDC's loan effectiveness and
the deadlock resulted in the delay of Kariba Uprating referred to above. This precondition was, however,
a dated covenant in the case of the IBRD loan due to ZESA's non-acceptance of it as condition of Board
presentation. The Bank's declaration of effectiveness would not have been made under strict adherence
to conditionalities (paras. 9, 10, 11,). However, with hindsight the short time allowed for resolving the
valuation of the Kariba assets and liabilities was probably unrealistic.
6.     Project management at the level of each project component was satisfactory. Project coordination,
particularly in the area of project cost accounting, was weak. The high attrition rate of the financial staff
made the situation worse. ZESA's lack of autonomy made it unable to compete with the private sector
to attract and retain qualified staff, and the dated covenant with regard to compensation packages was
never complied with. Progress reports on the whole project were not provided routinely, which made
coordination of Bank and non-Bank funded project components difficult (para. 19). Supervision oversight
and analysis of major projects proposed for the power investment program resulted in the postponement
of one uneconomic generation project (Kariba South Extension) and the scaling down of another (Old
Thermal Station Rehabilitation) for a combined saving of about US$400 million (para. 24).
7.     The loan was approved by the Board on January 12, 1988 and made effective on January 16,
1989. The loan closed on June 30, 1994, two years after the original closing date and after two
extensions. The final disbursement was made on September 22, 1994, and the remaining balance of US$
208,188 out of the original loan of US$ 44 million was cancelled.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
8.     The most important lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are: (i) unless supported
by sound government policies, policy-related conditionalities in loan agreements, such as tariff
adjustments, will not be complied with; and (ii) government's commitment to the operational autonomy
of the utility, particularly in the financial and administrative areas and including remuneration setting,
should be a precondition to committing loan funds to power projects.
9.     The Bank's approach of requesting up-front enunciation of a concrete energy sector policy,
including a defined commitment to a Power Operations Plan, for the ongoing Power III project has been
a valuable lesson drawn from the Power II project. Already the Operations Plan under Power III is
having significant impacts on ZESA's administrative and financial performance. Commercialization of
ZESA is proceeding satisfactorily, and ZESA and the government are considering the role that the private
sector could play in the future development of the power sector (paras. 20, 21, 25, 26). In addition to
financial viability, easy access to and availability of foreign exchange are critical to sustain ZESA's
operations (para. 16, 31).
10.   On the technical side, the experience gained on the rehabilitation works at Hwange has assisted
substantially in defining Hwange's upgrading needs which are now included under the ongoing Power
III project (para. 16). The need for detailed distribution study has been reinforced by the low impact of



- vi -
the Power II distribution component on distribution losses, and ZESA has embarked upon a study in
preparation for a new project (para. 13).
11.   Coordination with cofinanciers, particularly during project implementation, should be improved
and discussions arranged on critical issues affecting achievement of the overall project objectives. A
memorandum of understanding should be instituted and signed during negotiations between the Borrower,
the Bank and the Cofinanciers (paras. 11, 12, 23).






PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2900 - ZIM)
Project Identity
Project Name: Second Power Project
Loan Number: 2900 - ZIM
Loan Amount: US$ 44 million
RVP Unit:    Southern Africa (Africa Country Department I)
Country:     Zimbabwe
Sector:      Energy
A.    Introduction
1.    The Bank has been active in bringing about power development in Zimbabwe. The Power I
Project (Loan 2212-ZIM, US$105 million) helped finance the construction of the Hwange 2 Stage I
(2x220 MW) coal-fired power station, associated transmission works and substantial technical assistance
for setting up national electricity training centers. IFC participated in the financing of the Wankie open-
cast coal mining operations for the supply of coal to the Hwange power station. Previously, the Bank
made several loans for regional power development, consisting of a loan of US$28 million in 1952 to the
Government of Southern Rhodesia for urban electrification; a loan of US$80 million in 1956 to the
Federal Power Board for the Kariba dam and south bank hydroelectric station and associated high voltage
transmission works in Zambia and (then) Southern Rhodesia. These projects were implemented in a
timely fashion and within cost estimates.
2.    Additionally, the Bank has provided substantial technical assistance in the power subsector and
the energy sector. An energy sector assessment was carried out in 1981 under the joint UNDPlWorld
Bank Energy Assessment Program, and this assessment was updated in 1983. A Power System Loss
Reduction Study was prepared in early 1983 which identified economically justified investments in the
distribution system to reduce losses which at that time were around 6% of sales. A power sector
management assistance project under ESMAP, to assist Government with the formation of ZESA and for
developing energy planning capability, was implemented during the latter 1980's. A Petroleum Fuels
Supply Study was prepared under an IDA credit (US$1.2 million, Cr. 1296-ZIM); a Rural Afforestation
Credit (US$7.3 million, Cr. 1368-ZIM) of 1983 was used to prepare a pilot project for a national rural
afforestation program which included a wood energy utilization survey. Numerous other agencies have
also provided technical assistance to Zimbabwe in the energy sector, notably the European Investment
Bank (EIB).
3.    In addition to the Second Power Project for which this ICR is being prepared, a follow-on project
(Power III) consisting mainly of the rehabilitation and upgrading of Hwange power plant, reinforcement
of the distribution system, institutional strengthening through: (i) the procurement of additional workshop
equipment and vehicles; (ii) additional hardware and software for the MIS; and (iii) training and studies,
was approved in January 1994.



-2 -
B.    Project Objectives
4.    The objectives of the Second Power Project were to: (a) improve the efficiency and reliability of
power supply through urgently needed rehabilitation and upgrading of power facilities that were consistent
with the least-cost means for meeting the growing demand on the power system, by introducing national
power tariffs that were consistent with the economic cost of meeting demand, and through provision of
consultant services to carry out specific studies aimed at improving system operations; (b) enhance
development of the power sector by consolidating efficiently the reorganization of the sector,
strengthening its operations by financing the services of skilled expatriate staff mainly for Hwange power
plant, and establishing long-term development policy and investment priorities; and (c) strengthen the
institutional capability of ZESA through the establishment of a management information system and
efficient decision-making procedures, the implementation of a manpower development program and the
development of ZESA's in-house planning capabilities.
5.     The project was to consist of the following components:
(a) Kariba South Hydroelectric Power Station. The provision of new turbine runners to increase
the output of each of the six generating units from 111 MW to 125 MW  for a total of 84 MW  of
additional capacity. Provision of three 80 MVA single phase power transformers and of spare parts and
consumable items. Replacement of some of the obsolete auxiliary and control equipment to reduce
maintenance costs and to improve operating characteristics.
(b) Transmission Network. Construction of the 330 kV Tokwe-Triangle line (150 km) and a
second 330 kV Warren-Kadoma-Sherwood line (183 km). Re-insulation for the existing 88 kV Chinoyi-
Mhangura line (55 km) to 132 kV. Construction of a second parallel 132 kV line between Warren and
Seki (25 km). Construction of a third 132 kV Norton-Bindura-Madziva line (160km). Additional
substation capacity were to be installed at Atlanta (30 MVA), Kambuzuma (30 MVA), Criterion (2x20
MVA), Madziva (10 MVA), Highfield (2x60 MVA) and Kadoma (2x125 MVA).
(c) Distribution Networks. The power supply in selected high priority areas would be reinforced
and supply taken to new areas with new distribution lines (total of about 400 km) and substations (about
90 MVA), and about 100 distribution transformers, 25kVA to 300kVA, estimated total about 20MVA.
In addition, some existing lines would be reconductored (about 185 kim) and spare equipment provided.
All regions of Zimbabwe were to be covered.
(d) Workshops. The construction of new maintenance and fabrication facilities, equipped with
machine and hand tools, a garage for the maintenance of the vehicle fleet, and new enlarged stores
facilities.
(e) Vehicles.  The provision of passenger cars (15), trucks of various capacities (330),
motorcycles (40), buses (6), special purpose vehicles (35) and miscellaneous equipment, together with
an adequate supply (about 3 years) of replacement and spare parts to enable efficient operation and
maintenance of power system facilities.
(f) Training. The provision of instructors to provide training to both administrative and technical
staff, including the supply of training aids and the provision of funds to cover the costs of overseas
training to selected personnel.



- 3 -
(g) Power Operations Support. The provision of funds to cover the cost of expatriate engineers
and technical personnel required to assist ZESA in the operation of the power system for a three-year
period while intensive training of local personnel is underway.
(h) Management Information System (MIS) and Computer Facilities. Consultants would be
retained to study ZESA's financial functions and to develop an appropriate management information and
control system. The project would also include a provision for computer facilities and training in their
use, and technical assistance for implementing the MIS.
(i) Engineering Service. Consultants would be retained to assist ZESA in all phases of the
project, i.e. design, procurement, supervision of construction and erection, inspection of materials and
equipment, and the performance of acceptance tests.
(j) Studies. Consultants would be appointed to carry out studies of the high voltage transmission
system development, and of power system transient behavior and load frequency control.
C.    Achievement of Project Objectives
6.     The efficiency and reliability of power supply have been improved under this project through:
(i) the overhauling and preventive maintenance works as well through the provision of key experienced
staff for Hwange; and (ii) the reinforcement of the distribution works. The construction of the
transmission network is also expected to improve reliability when completed for the most part during
1995. Through preventive maintenance and support in expertise, the availability of Hwange power plant
was maintained near to an internationally acceptable level (para. 25), and system efficiency including
transmission losses are at satisfactory level and are expected to marginally improve upon construction
completion. There is, however, room for improving the distribution losses. The demand for power was
partly met by imports mainly from Zambia since the uprating of the Kariba South power plant was not
implemented, and hence the 84 MW of additional capacity was not realized during the implementation
period of the project. The power sector was reorganized but the strengthening of the institution through
training was only of limited success. However, the strengthening of the institution through the
implementation of the MIS was probably the objective which was most successfully met.
D.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
7.    The project was well prepared and designed to cover the investment needs in the power sector
for the four years ending 1991. Several preparation missions took place in the latter part of the 1980's
in combination with the supervision of the Power I project. The feasibility studies on the upgrading of
Kariba South and the transmission network were prepared by consultants and financed under the Power
I project. The other components were prepared by ZESA together with consultants and Bank staff. These
were useful inputs for the appraisal of the project completed in November 1986 (Table 3, Appendix). The
Loan was approved by the Board in January 1988 and the planned effectiveness declaration of April 1988
did not materialize until January 1989. This delay in the effectiveness date (exactly one year from Board
approval), the procurement cycle needed for the Hwange spares, and the acquisition of services for the
maintenance of the Hwange units both of which resulted from a change in content of the Operations
Support component (para. 16), are the main reasons for the postponement of the closing date of the Loan
from the original June 30, 1992 to June 30, 1994, after two extensions.
8.    The objectives of the project were clearly defined and covered technical, financial and economic
aspects as well as training and institutional reform. The latter was particularly important as the appraisal
mission was aware of the decline in the operating performance of the power sector arising from a



shortage and continual loss of professional and skilled manpower due partly to ZESA falling under the
civil service regulation with respect to salaries and condition of work. A major weakness at the time of
appraising the project was the lack of institutional autonomy and accountability. Irrespective of the level
of sensitivity to such issues at project preparation, the project has shown that laying down conditionalities
would be fruitless unless: (i) government was willing to support economically and financially sound
power pricing; and (ii) ZESA was given sufficient autonomy to offer competitive terms of service to hold
the skilled staff that were recruited and trained rather than lose them to the private sector.
9.     Financing by CDC of the rehabilitation of the Kariba South Hydroelectric Power Station did not
materialize by the revised closing date of the loan partly because ZESA was unable to comply with
CDC's conditionality which called for valuation of the Kariba assets and liabilities and the sharing thereof
between Zambia and Zimbabwe and also because ZESA was in default of most of the financial covenants.
Due to the non-compliance, the CDC loan was never made effective. The jointly owned Central African
Power Corporation (CAPC) was established in 1963 to manage the development of the Zambezi
resources, and particularly to operate the Kariba complex consisting of the hydroelectric power station
and high voltage transmission networks in Zimbabwe and Zambia. CAPC handled the supply of bulk
power in both countries up to 1977, when it was agreed that the Kariba assets and actual output were to
be shared equally by the two countries. At the time CAPC ceased to earn revenue in Zambia and
ZESCO, as an agent of the Govermnent of Zambia, became the principal supplier of electricity in
Zambia. CAPC's costs in Zambia were reimbursed by ZESCO. Additionally, ZESCO reimbursed CAPC
for 50 % of the costs pertaining to the operation of the Kariba complex. In 1985 it was decided that
CAPC would cease to trade in Zimbabwe. This meant that CAPC no longer earned revenues in
Zimbabwe by means of a bulk supply tariff and 50 % of its costs were reimbursed by ZESA. CAPC was
then transformed into a river authority (ZRA) and ceased to be responsible for generating and transmitting
power.
10.    At negotiations for the second power project, the outstanding activities related to the transfer of
the CAPC power assets were to: (i) complete the valuation of CAPC's assets and liabilities; (ii) allocate
the assets and liabilities after obtaining the necessary consents; and (iii) carry out the legal transfer of
these assets and liabilities to the appropriate entities (ZESA and ZESCO). Since it was important that
the reconstitution of CAPC be completed as quickly as possible for the efficient operation and
development of the Zimbabwe power system, ZESA and the Government agreed during negotiations that
the Bank may suspend disbursements under its loan if the reconstitution of CAPC in substance satisfactory
to the Bank was not completed by June 30, 1988.  Actually, the Bank had suggested that the
reconstitution of CAPC should be a condition for presenting the project to the Board. However, the
Zimbabwe delegation pointed out that this would delay the processing of the loan and implementation of
the project. Hence it was made a dated covenant.
11.    An asset valuation study in respect of the assets and liabilities of the former CAPC was prepared
by consultants and financed by CDC. The study was, among others, to come up with an index to be used
for valuing the assets. The indices were prepared by the consultants and were presented to the two
governments (Zimbabwe and Zambia) for decision. To date no decision has been reached, and the matter
has been referred to international arbitration. As a consequence, a ZESA-wide asset revaluation was not
undertaken, and the rate of return covenant which called for a 7% return on revalued assets could not
be monitored. In 1990, CDC queried why the Bank was appraising a third power project with so many
major issues still outstanding 1/. CDC wrote a letter to the Bank explaining their position and itemized
key outstanding requirements which prevented them from making their loan effective. Apart from the
1/     The third project referred to is a defunct distribution project prepared in 1990, but was not presented to the
Board due to non-fulfillment of financial preconditions for Board presentation.



- 5 -
evaluation of former CAPC assets, CDC pointed out that most of the financial covenants agreed with the
Bank were not being adhered to. Thus CDC has taken the extreme position of not declaring its loan
effective almost indefinitely 2/, whereas the Bank took the diametrically opposite position of declaring
the second power project effective in January 1989 with this dated covenant (due date June 1988)
unfulfilled, having thus given implied recognition to the complexity of the valuation issue which went
beyond the control of the Borrower. In retrospect, all parties to the loan agreements have underestimated
the political difficulties and the time needed to resolve what may be considered a cross border
conditionality in the sharing of the Kariba assets and liabilities. In hindsight, a memorandum of
understanding between the Borrower and amongst all cofinanciers should have been agreed at
negotiations, outlining areas of cooperation and emphasizing the need of a regular dialogue on the
implementation of the project.
12.   Detailed design of the transmission component by consultants and the 400kV interconnector with
Mozambique which became definite during the early phase of the implementation of the Power II project
introduced some changes in this component. In general the 330kV was slightly reduced in extent and the
132kV was correspondingly increased covering larger areas than originally anticipated. Lines constructed
(including those under implementation) totalled 308km of 330kV (25km less than estimated) and 265km
of 132kV (25km more than appraised). Contract packages in 6 lots (insulators and hardware; conductors
and earthwire; and tower supply and installation of lines, in each case per voltage level) and the use of
a local construction firm reduced the cost of the component. The financing of the additional substation
capacity (para. 5b) was transferred from ADB to FINNIDA as part of ZESA's Expanded Power Plan II,
an expansion of the Power II project. Parts of the expanded transmission component are still under
implementation and are expected to be completed during the third quarter of 1995. It appears that the
transmission component of the project was monitored during supervision missions not on a contract-by-
contract basis but as part of the annual review of the investment program of the power sector, because
each contract was below the mandatory review level of the loan agreement with the Bank (US$ 50
million). In addition, absence of a progress report on Power II rendered regular monitoring of Bank-
unfunded components difficult. ZESA also embarked on expanded scope for sub-transmission and
distribution with a number of cofinanciers, which complicated follow up of the specific components of
the Power II project.
13.   The distribution component of the project covered the whole country and was to include
construction of mostly 11 and 33 kV lines and substations, and reinforcement of old lines as well as
substations. In just about all the regions, the scope of the distribution network was changed, some having
been overtaken by events due to growing pressure on the network and some having been transferred to
other cofinanciers. The distribution program of the southern area was the main program implemented
as envisaged at appraisal. Nevertheless, in total some 225MVA 33/11kV of substation capacity and
173MVA 11/0.4kV of distribution transformer capacity were installed. Some 295km of overhead and
200km of cable work were carried out, all in excess of the aggregate estimate made at appraisal (para.
5c). FINIDA later financed part of the distribution works which was envisaged at appraisal but not
carried out under the Bank loan. The foreign exchange cost of the distribution work, as implemented,
was financed by the Bank loan and cost about US$ 27 million equivalent as compared to US$ 22 million
expected at appraisal. The different and longer time period during which this component was actually
implemented and the increase in scope explain the cost increase.  Localized voltage drops and
interruptions are showing improvement. Although too early for impact assessment, losses in the
2/     CDC discussed with ZESA the possibility of declaring it effective in 1992 upon recognition of the
deadlock between Zimbabwe and Zambia on the Kariba valuation issue. This did not materialize due to
doubling (from GBP 12.5 million to GBP 25 million) of costs.



- 6 -
distribution network are expected to improve the percentage loss by a minimum average reduction of 1
percent.
14.   Under the workshops and vehicles component of the project, the vehicles were originally to be
financed by the Bank loan and the workshops by a Dutch grant. However, the government of Holland
financed some US$ 7.2 million worth of vehicles (following the restructuring of Dutch vehicle
manufacturers) and the Bank financed part of the workshops (US$ 360,000) and US$ 728,000 worth of
vehicles. Under the workshops, a new site was acquired by ZESA for the central workshop and storage
area. Site works and construction of the tool room, stores and garage were completed and the necessary
machinery and tools were procured. However, only about 50% of the foundation excavation work for
the construction of the mechanical and electrical workshops have been completed. The remaining work
required to complete the workshops is financed under the follow-up Bank financed Power III project.
15.   The objective of the training component was to prepare the Zimbabweans for more responsibility
and hence reduce the dependence on expatriate staff. The appraisal mission included manpower training
expert who, with ZESA staff, identified a training program whereby 30 generation staff, 20 transmission
staff, 40 senior and middle management staff and 15 staff of the Control Center were to be trained. In
addition, provision of training instructors, equipment and teaching aids were also included at a total
estimated cost of US$ 2.7 million including a foreign exchange component of US$ 1.3 million equivalent.
The Bank was to finance 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
and 75 % of local expenditures for other items procured locally. Actually, only 28 of ZESA staff received
short term training in the areas of distribution, protection, welding and practical training at manufacturers'
premises. By the end of October 1991, the Bank had disbursed US$ 398,961 equivalent under the training
component, the remaining US $ 1,120 was disbursed in May 1994 for a total Bank disbursement of US$
400,081. It appears that the intended objective of this component was not fully met, primarily due to
ZESA's staff recruitment problems.
16.   The objective of the Operations Support component of the project was to assist ZESA in the
operation of the Hwange coal fired power plant and in other technical areas through the financing of
expatriate engineers and technical personnel, while at the same time promoting intensive training of local
personnel to take over from the expatriate staff (see training above). At appraisal, some 161 expatriates
were estimated to be required for FY89, 93 for FY90 and 58 for FY91. ZESA solicited proposals for
Hwange Operations Support from firms which resulted in a much higher amount (US$12.7 million
foreign portion) than the budgeted amount at appraisal (US$10.6 million foreign). Consequently, after
detailed discussions with supervision missions, ZESA broadened the objective of the Operations Support
component, and decided to: (i) selectively employ experienced individuals for areas considered critical
for ZESA-wide operations; and (ii) use the remaining funds to procure and carry out the much needed
essential preventive maintenance of Hwange power plant to improve its performance. Accordingly,
through direct contracting and negotiations five highly experienced expatriates were employed for Hwange
(Power Plant Superintendent, Maintenance and Planning Engineers and stock control short term expert)
and one Generation Engineer for the Generation Department at the Head Office, as well as one expert
to assist in the installation of the MIS and two for the Corporate Planning Unit. The resulting saving
(almost 50 percent of the original estimate) from the Operations Support component was used mainly for
the procurement of essential parts and suppliers' services needed to improve the performance of Hwange
power plant. This change in content of the Hwange Operations Support component, together with the
delay in effectiveness declaration (exactly one year from Board approval), necessitated a two- extension
of the closing date of the loan to June 30, 1994. The availability factor averaged at the satisfactory level
of 79.6% from the year of effectiveness (1989) to the revised closing date (1994), and the thermal
efficiency at 29.2%. Hwange power plant generated 23,084GWh, or 55.6%, out of a total ZSEA
generation's of 41,524GWh during the fiscal year periods of 1990 to 1994. Hwange contributed the



- 7 -
major share of the energy needs of Zimbabwe during the dry years of 1992 through 1994, substituting
for the dwindling hydro energy supply from Kariba. Funds were also provided to pay consultants
studying the ZESA Reform program, a critical study to improve ZESA's operations and affecting the
processing schedule of the proposed Power III project (currently under implementation). A technical
audit on Hwange, funded from the savings, concretized the measures needed to resolve Hwange's chronic
shortcomings; these are for the major part being implemented under the ongoing Power III project.
17.   Under the Management Information System (MIS) and Computer Facilities component, provision
was made for: (i) installing computer hardware and software in all areas of ZESA's operations; (ii)
establishing an end-user computing environment; (iii) developing ZESA's capacity to manage and
maintain the computer systems; (iv) promoting the effective use of proven application packages; (v)
developing a computerized MIS which incorporates consumer information, finance, materials, human
resources, planned maintenance and fleet management systems. The first four of these have been
implemented and the fifth is at an advanced stage of implementation. More specifically, the computer
hardware and software have been installed and are operating satisfactorily at ZESA's head office, area
offices and at all power stations except for the old thermal power stations where the installation was
postponed because of resource constraints. Staff of the MIS department have been trained to operate the
system and to train others in its use. In addition, 2,500 of ZESA's staff have acquired the facility to
interact with the system. For this progress ZESA should be commended, especially as it was achieved
in a highly compressed time-frame of about three years.
18.   Engineering services for the detail design, bid and contract document preparation, bid evaluation,
supervision of construction and installation of transmission plant and equipment are expected to be
completed in February 1996. The two studies included in the project are completed.
19.   ZESA appointed a project manager for each project component, and the Deputy Managing
Director of Finance (since renamed Finance Director) was assigned the project coordinator for the whole
project. Each manager dealt with procurement and physical implementation, and the coordinator assigned
a project accountant to, among other responsibilities, monitor payments and project costs. Supervision
missions designed a format to enable close monitoring of payments in various currencies and their
conversion to US dollar and Zimbabwe dollar equivalents. Changes in the project accountant were very
frequent due to ZESA's non-competitiveness with the private sector, and hence project costing continued
to be a major problem for project supervision. The Bank did not provide a guideline for progress
reporting to assist the coordination effort, and hence follow up of components financed by others
depended exclusively on supervision missions.  The capability of ZESA's staff was furthermore
overstretched by a number of other projects and the requirements of a correspondingly large number of
financiers.
E.    Project Sustainability
20.    During the early phases of project implementation, ZESA's poor financial performance was a
cause of serious concern in regard not only to ZESA's near term operations but also the sustainability
of project outputs in the long term. Government's commitment to the policy framework of the resource
which, among others, recommended parastatals to operate along commercial lines helped initiation of
concrete diagnosis for ZESA's financial problems. Tariffs were gradually improved but not sufficient
to comply with the 40% covenanted investment self financing ratio. Substantial improvement in
performance followed the declaration of energy sector policy which the government issued during the
preparation of Power III project. The ZESA Operations Plan, a core component of this policy, has
already shown by the closing date of the loan significant improvement in ZESA's overall performance
leading to the desired goal of a relatively autonomous commercial entity - cornerstones for the



sustainability of the outputs of the project. Continued commitment to the objectives of the Operations
Plan is an important ingredient to sustainability.
21.   The restructuring of the Operations Support component ensured sustainability in the operations
of ZESA's Hwange power plant through the use of local engineering and technical staff to the maximum
and the application of an effective training program. Expatriates occupied no more than five key
professional positions during any one period. Service contracting with the original suppliers of Hwange
equipment helps resolve highly complex technical problems and supports mandatory major overhauling
of the turbo -generators and associated equipment. Hwange's operations would be sustained only with
such support and ready access to foreign exchange.  The transfer of know-how in the planning,
installation and operation of the MIS as well as in corporate planning were effective to the extent that
ZESA's staff assumed full responsibility for the running of the MIS and for preparing ZESA's medium
term plans. Technical staff in the transmission and distribution fields are competent to manage and
operate the related facilities under the project. However, retention of experienced and qualified staff,
especially in the areas of finance, computers and engineering, remain a bottleneck to the continuation of
effective performance of ZESA which has been improving particularly towards the end of the project.
Encouraging signs, motivating performance, are emerging following the introduction of the energy sector
development policy and the implementation of the Operations Plan under the Power III project.
F.    Bank Performance
22.   Bank performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. Project
objectives and components were clearly defined. However, the timing in the dated covenant for Kariba's
asset valuation and the insensitivity to the high number of expatriate staff in the Operations Support
component were probably not realistic for Zimbabwe's political environment where indigenization was
becoming more and more of a priority. During supervision, however, Bank's efforts were frustrated by
shortage and continuous turnover of staff in the areas of finance. Project costing remained a difficult
operation due to interruptions in institutional memory following the departure of staff to whom
methodology was imparted by Bank missions. On the other hand, Bank supervision was assisted by a
few dedicated staff in the areas of distribution, MIS and generation who followed the Bank's procedures
in project monitoring and procurement (para. 19).
23.   The Deputy General Manager for Finance (currently referred to as Finance Director) was the
project coordinator, over and above managing his department which lacked human resources. With
hindsight, considering the number of components and the volume of procurement, the Bank should have
requested placement of a dedicated project accountant if not a project coordinator. The Bank also did
not call for a regular submission of progress reports which would have better assisted the work of
supervision missions, and would also have strengthened the supervision of non-Bank funded components
of Power II. Inclusion by ZESA of a large number of sub-transmission and distribution projects, financed
by FINIDA, EIB etc., and each costing less than the Bank review limit of US$50 million, under the
umbrella of Expanded Power Plan II has also complicated effective supervision of non-Bank funded
components of the Power II project.
24.   Supervision missions review annually the investment program of the power sector. Detailed
oversight of and advice following such reviews led to reconsideration of two major planned investments,
namely the Kariba South Extension (KSE) and quotations for the Old Thermal Rehabilitation. The Bank's
position that KSE could not be designed as a peaking plant on hydrological considerations was fully
justified by the subsequent low level of the Kariba reservoir. KSE, then estimated to cost US$350
million, was postponed. Rehabilitation of the Old Thermals was scaled back by two thirds to an



- 9 -
economically justified level, reducing power investment by US$70 million with minimal impact on the
reliability of supply.
G.    Borrower Performance
25.    ZESA, though heavily committed to a power project to improve the performance of the utility,
relied heavily on the services of consultants and Bank's assistance in the identification, preparation and
appraisal of the project. This was mainly due to shortage of professional staff. ZESA's performance in
operating the facilities funded by the loan is satisfactory. Hwange's availability averaged 79.6% during
the period 1989, when the loan was declared effective, to 1994, when the loan closed, with the maximum
of 86.4% in 1991 and the minimum of 72.2% in 1990. Thermal efficiency is steady at around 29.2%
which is due to the under-capacity of the cooling towers (being rectified under Power III). Hwange made
a significant contribution of almost 56 % of total of ZESA's generation during the implementation period.
The losses on the transmission system are steady at the average level of 3.6% of energy sent out to the
network and are expected to improve upon completion of the transmission works (para. 12). In addition
to providing electricity to some 24,500 new customers, the distribution reinforcement is also expected
to reduce frequenecy of unplanned outages and improve the distribution losses by an estimated percentage
of an average of 1 %. System load factor is at the average of 71.8% for the period 3/ (Table 5).
26.   In areas other than technical, ZESA's performance, up to about fiscal year ending 1993, was
frustrated by governmental control on tariffs, staff remuneration and motivation. ZESA was thus not only
unable to contribute anything to its capital expenditure but had to revert to local borrowing at a very high
interest rate to repay its external debt.  The self financing ratio, covenanted at 40%  in the loan
agreement, was never achieved and was in fact negative up to and including fiscal year 1993, and turned
positive at 27% in FY 1994. The accounts receivables target for the three years from effectiveness (FYs
89 through 91) have been achieved, but increased to 85 and 89 days respectively in the subsequent two
years. However, by the revised closing date of the loan the figure improved to 58, better than the
stipulated figure of 60 days. Staff morale and productivity was low, and turnover of professional staff
was very high, especially in the field of finance. In spite of the latter, audited accounts were received
almost always within the due date. Fiscal year 1994 has been a year of record performance by the
Borrower in all spheres of its activity. This followed the implementation of the government's declared
policy on the corporatization of the power sector - a major issue covenanted in the ongoing Power III
project. All the operational constraints which impeded the conditionalities of the Power II Loan have been
addressed and are thus being overcome.  Commercialization is progressing satisfactorily, and the
Government and ZESA are considering the role the private sector could play in the development program
of the power system.
H.    Assessment of Outcomes
27.    The project has a number of components each with its own specific objectives. The uprating of
the Kariba South hydroelectric power station, expected to provide an additional 84MW (about 12.2
percent increase in the existing station capacity of 666MW), was not realized by the revised closing date
of the loan. This is a major shortcoming in the achievement of the overall objectives of the project.
ZESA is, however, mobilizing financing sources, and is committed to carry out the uprating during the
coming 3-4 years. The extension of the transmission network and the reinforcement of the distribution
system have satisfactorily achieved their intended objective of improving the reliability of the systems.
ZESA's financial constraint has resulted in delayed construction of the major parts of the Electrical and
3/     Corresponding 1992 figures for the Republic of South Africa are: coal fired power plant availability 77%;
thermal efficiency 34.2%; system load factor 73.5%; and transmission and distribution losses 5.5%.



- 10 -
Mechanical Workshops, and hence the major portion of the funds allocated for procurement of workshop
equipment were allocated to other categories. Procurement of vehicles has been carried out as originally
intended. ZESA has not fully utilized the funds allocated for training, but has made full use of its
Training Center to upgrade technical and administrative staff. Funds earmarked for management
contracting of the operations of Hwange power plant were used more for the provision of spares and
overhauling of the turbo-generators and much less for the provision of expatriate staff for the running of
the power plant. The reason for this change was the much higher than budgeted proposal for the
management contracting, and the result has: (i) encouraged self-reliance guided by few but highly
experienced individual consultants employed under the project; and (ii) released additional funds for
procurement of backlog of spares and for overhauling Hwange and for the employment of individual
consultants for planning and MIS installations. The objective of ensuring sustainability of plant operation
and improving plant availability and efficiency have thus been satisfactorily achieved. Achievement of
the objectives of the MIS component through the installation of hardware and software coupled with
effective transfer of know-how was the most successful component of the project. The consultancy
services components have satisfactorily achieved the objective of concretizing and supervising the
construction of the transmission component of the project and for establishing development strategy for
the MIS.
I.     Future Operation
28.    ZESA's operations, especially in the areas of physical plant, are continuations of ongoing
activities for which personnel are in place and continue to be trained in the latest technologies over and
above the hands-on experience in the maintenance and operation of the existing facilities. Performance
indicators, monitoring important plant and facility outputs, will not only continue to be monitored by
supervision missions but are also part of ZESA's Annual Activity Report. The ongoing Power III project
has addressed the issue of ZESA's autonomy and liberalization policy towards which the Government is
fully committed. Future supervision missions should monitor the implementation of the Kariba Uprating,
and this ICR should be audited in light of the outcome of the Uprating.
J.     Key Lessons Learned
29.   The most significant lessons learnt from the implementation of the project include the following:
(i) conditionalities will not be fulfilled unless the autonomy of a power utility is being upheld by sound
government policies; (ii) government's commitment to the autonomy of the utility should be a
precondition to committing loan funds towards similar projects; (iii) contending with policy inadequacies
impinging upon financial and administrative autonomy, non-competitive remuneration and career
opportunities to employ, motivate and retain staff should be prerequisites to the Bank's lending program
in the sector. The Bank's requirement for up-front enunciation of energy sector policy for the sector's
investment lending, including a defined Government commitment to an Operations Plan for ZESA,
incorporated in the ongoing Power III project, has drawn valuable lessons from the implementation of
Power II(paras. 20, 26).
30.    The Bank as well other cofinanciers appear, with hindsight, to have underestimated the possibility
of fulfilling in a short time what may be regarded as a cross border conditionality in regard to the Kariba
assets$ owned jointly by Zimbabwe and Zambia expected to have been complied with by June 1988.
Sharing of the assets and liabilities between the two countries (represented by their respective power
utilities) has not been resolved to date and has in fact been referred to international arbitration. In
retrospect, although legally justifiable actions were imposed in time, cofinanciers should have held



- 11 -
combined discussions and consider a waiver in light of lingering developments, rather than delay the
Kariba uprating for so long (para. 11) 4/.
31.     Much of the preventive maintenence work carried out under the Hwange Operations support
component (para. 16) was a continuation of a similar support made to Hwange with the use of surplus
funds under Power I (and carried over to the ongoing Power III project) was to overcome serious backlog
of maintenance works caused by shortage of foreign exchange. The lesson to be drawn is that ZESA's
operational sustainability would heavily depend not only on its financial viability but also on ZESA's
ready access to foreign exchange and on Government's ability to provide it.
32.     Cooperation with other cofinanciers was infrequent.   There should be a memorandum  of
understanding on the supervision of cofinanced projects, outlining the degree of involvement amongst
cofinanciers and binding all of them to exchange information regularly. Such an understanding becomes
even more important where components are discrete and physically independent of each other, the delay
of one thus giving no warnings to the financiers of the other components (paras. 11, 12) 5/.
4/       CDC, in its comment, dated June 20, 1995, on the ICR states.. "I agree with your comment (Para 30) that
the complexity of the cross border conditionality was probably underestimated in terms of the time it would
take to settle the issue, and I see that we did at one stage try to find a pragmatic way round the issue.
However we had a genuine, continuing concem over the tariff and the rate of return covenant. I am not
sure that this should eam our position the description of "extreme" (Para 11, line 11), and I am sure that
you can appreciate that this was done with ZESA's best interest at heart."
5/       CDC comments as follows: "Your analysis that there should have been a better and more co-ordinated co-
operation between the cofinanciers is one we would agree with, although it has to be said that there was a
detailed and frequent exchange of views between the Bank and CDC as our files well document.
Nonetheless a greater focus on issues of concern should have produced a resolution of the problems in a
speedier fashion."
ADB is in the process of preparing an ICR. ADB's comment on the Bank's draft reads: .."However, we
would like to take this opportunity to express our opinion regarding appraisal and supervision process for
multi-donor projects. It has been our experience that in such projects, there is almost a total lack of
interaction among the donor agencies. Consequently, the implementing agency deals with each of the
agencies independently which at times creates implementation problems and could even jeopardize the
objectives of the project. We are of the opinion that for multi-donor projects, the practice of common
appraisal of the project must be followed and the conditionalities should be mutually discussed and finalized
between the donors and the recipient organization. It is noted that in the project under review, ZESA did
not fully comply with some of the conditionalities which would mean that either the conditions were
impracticable to be complied with within the country's overall socio-economic policies or the project
supervision was lax and uncoordinated among the donor agencies."






- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Loan 2900 - ZIM)






-13-
Table 1: Summary of Assesments
A. Achievement of Objectives                                                                      Substantial                                                        Partial                                                   Negligible                                               Not applicable
k     ~      ..........111 ~ 1.1:  .  1............................ "'l.......... ...............                                                                                    ..................    ...... IIII ..............I........                            .................I..............
Maro-economic Plicies                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
..........................................                                     ..... ......I.................................. ..........................................................................................................................................................
ector Policies                                                                                                                                                                                                                        X
.................................................................... ............................. ..........................................................   ............... ............................   .............................................................
Financial Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                     X
.. ............................................................... ..... ............................. ................... .................................................. ............................................................................................
Institutional Development                                                                                    X
Physical Objectives                                                                                          X
................................................................. .... ............................. ........................................................I....................................................................................................  ......
Poverty Reduction                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      X
................................................... ................... ............................. ........................................................ ..................................................................................................
Gender Issues                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           X
Other Social Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 x
nviror  entai   ectives           ..................................................................................I................'ll-........"I.............I................I.............
Environmental Objectives                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                X
Public Sector Management                                                                                                                                                                                                                 X
P.:.................................................. .............................. ............................. .............................................. .......................................................................................................
Private Sector Development                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             X
Other (Specify)
B. Project Sustainability                                                                                        Likely                                                                         Unlikely                                                                         Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                                                                              Highly Satisfactory                                                                        Satisfactory                                                                          Deficient
den      ...i  1 .....o "'ll".........I'll.........I'l,........I'll..............................................................I........................I'll.......................................................................
-dentification                                                                                                                                                                                           X
..........................................    ............ ........................................................ ....................................................................................................................
Preparation Assistance                                                                                                                                                                                  X
Appraisal                                                                                                                                                                                                X
Supervision                                                                                                                                                                                             X
D. Borrower Performance                                                                       Highly Unsatisfactory                                                                         Satisfactory                                                                          Deficient
........... .r  ...........'l........................I'll...................................Ill................... ..........................................I......................................................................
Preparation                                                                                                                                                                                             X
Implementation                                                                                                                                                                                          X
.... .......................................................... ..... ..................................................... .....................................................................................................................................................
Covenant Compliance                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        x
..p ............................................................................. ................................ ...................................................................................................................
Operation (if applicable)                                                                                                                                                                             X
Highly                                                                                                                         Highly
E. Assesment of Outcome                                                                           Satisfactory                                                    Satisfactory                                                Unsatisfactory                                              Unsatisfactory
x



- 14 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Purpose       Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1. Loan 145-RN            Urban               1952 ($28 Mln)      Completed
electrification
2. Loan 392-RN            Kariba Dam and      1956 ($80 Mln)       Completed
Power Plant'
3. Loan 2212-ZIM          Hwange Coal         1982 ($105 Mln)      Completed
Power Station
Following Operations
4. Loan 3696-ZIM          Upgrade and         1994 ($90 Mln)       On-going
Rehabilitation
of Hwange,
Distribution
Reinforcement
and Institutional
Strengethening
1) Both Zambia (then known as Northern Rhodesia) and Zimbabwe (then known as Southern
Rhodesia) were the beneficiaries.



-15-
ZIMAMBWE
Power II Project
Table 3: Project Time Table
Steps in Project cycle           Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification              August 1983 and        August 1983 and
(Executive Project Summary)     January 1984           January 1984
Preparation              September 1984 and      September 1984 and
March 1985        March 1985
Appraisal                  February 1986          November 1986
Negotiations                  April 1987           September 1987
Letter of Developmet Policy              NA                     NA
(if applicable)
Board Presentation               June 1987             January 1988
Signing                                   X        March 1988
Effectiveness                  April 1988            January 1989
Project Completion             December 1991           February 1995
Loan Closing                 December 1992            June 1994



- 16 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimates and Actuals
(in million US Dollars)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY9
5
Appraisal Estimate          4.8    18.5   35.1   41.7   44.0         -      -
Actual                      0.1    2.2    26.0   34.9   38.5   42.6   43.8'
Actual as % of Estimate      2       12     74      84      88      97    99.8
Date of Final Disbursement2
1) US$ 0.2 million was cancelled in November 1994 (Loan closed in June 1994).
2) September 22, 1994 was the date of the last disbursement.



- 17 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                        Estimated                Actual
1. Project completion                                      12/31/1991             12/31/1993 1/
2. Internal cash generation %
FY 1991                                  40                      (67)
FY 1992                                  40                     (102)
FY 1993                                  40                      (28)
FY 1994                                  40                      27
3. Debt service coverage
FY 1991                                  1.50                    0.7
FY 1992                                  1.50                    0.6
FY 1993                                  1.50                    0.9
FY 1994                                  1.50                    1.3
4. Rate of return on revalued
assets %                                  7                Never achieved
4. Audited accounts due by:                                   12/31                   12/31
5. Accounts receivables for:
FY 1991                                60 days                 74 days
FY 1992                                60 days                 85 days
FY 1993                                60 days                 99 days
FY 1994                                60 days                 58 days
6. Generation in GWh and (import %)
FY 1991                                10,735                10,068(11.4)
FY 1992                                 11,114               10,264(19.7)
FY 1993                                 11,507               8,682(14)2/
FY 1994                                 10,412                9,544(21)
7. Sales in GWh and (losses in %)
FY 1991                               9,381(9.5)             8,992(10.7)
FY 1992                               9,713(9.5)              9,248(9.9)
FY 1993                              10,056(9.5)             7,731(11)3/
FY 1994                              10,411(9.5)             8,412(11.9)
10. Max. demand, MW & (load factor %)
FY 1991                               1524(77.7)             1,576(72.9)
FY 1992                               1576(77.7)             1,608(72.9)
FY 1993                               1632(77.8)              1,478(67)
FY 1994                               1689(77.8)             1,538(70.8)
Il.Installed Capacity, MW                                    2,155                   2,071
12.Number of Customers FY94                                                         357,306
13.Access to Electricity FY94. %                                                       17
14.Customers per Employee FY94                                                         47
I/December 31. 1993 is the revised completion date for Bank's components. Components financed by others have
been delayed and are likely to be compleyed by first quarter of 1995 (ADB) and 1997/98 for Kariba Uprating under a
new financing arrangement.
2/During 1992, 1993 and 1994, Zimbabwe supply was heavily affected by drought in the region. Power import and
load shedding were substantial.
3/Corresponding figures for distribution only were respectively 6.7%, 6.3%, 6.6% and 8.2%, thus indicating that the
increase in losses is due to distribution network.



- 18 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 6: Studies included in Project
Study          Purpose as defined at       Status         Impact of Study
Appraisal
1. Transmission     To prepare a long-term    The study has    Recommendations
Network             development program to   been completed    have been
Development Study   meet expected needs up                     implemented and
to the year 2000                           more will be
implemented
2. Power system     To investigate transient   Completed       Recommendations
transient behavior    behavior and propose                     are being
and load frequency    measures for                             implemented
control             improvement
3. Development of   To develop an            The               The installation of
a strategy for MIS    appropriate management   recommendations  the MIS facilities,
information system for    have been        including training
ZESA's operations and    implemented and   of needed
assess hardware and     additional needs    personnel, was
software requirements    as recommended    highly
will be           satisfactory, and
implemented       has substantially
under Power III   improved ZESA's
management
performance



- 19 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 7A: Project Costs, in million US dollars
Apraisal Estimate              Actual Cost/Estimate
Item                 Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign              Total
1. Kariba Rehabilitation          2.0        21.7        23.7       4.0         38.2       42.2
2. Distribution Network           34.8        24.6        59.4      17.0        27.1        44.1
3. Transmission                  27.3         22.1        49.4      16.0        19.1        35.1
4. Workshops 2/                    9.3         3.0        12.3       9.8         7.2        17.0
5. Vehicles D                     6.2         7.5         13.7       0.0         0.0        0.0
6. Training                        1.8         1.8        3.6        0.0         0.4        0.4
7. Operations Support             2.7         10.6        13.3       0.0        11.5        11.5
8. MIS                            2.4         4.0         6.4        2.3         3.4        5.7
9. Engineering Services           0.7         2.5         3.2        0.4         2.3        2.7
10. Studies                         -          1.2         1.2         -         0.4         0.4
Total                 87.2        99.0        186.2     49.5        109.6      159.1
1/    Because of non-compliance by ZESA on the financial conditionality of sharing the Kariba assets between
Zimbabwe and Zambia, CDC did not release the funds for the rehabilitation and upgrade of Kariba South.
However, ZESA proceeded with gradual rehabilitation of critical electrical parts of the existing plant, and is
seeking loans for the uprating of the turbines and the remaining electrical plant. The foreign currency
requirement is estimated at GBP24,465,000 ($38,200,000). ZESA has budgeted for local costs
Z$31,800,000 ($4 million) for FYs 1995 through 1998.
2/     Actual cost for Workshops and Vehicles is combined under Workshops.



- 20 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 7B: Project Financing, in million US dollars
Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Estimate
Source        Local      Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign    Total
CDC                2.0        21.7         21.7           -             -
IBRD              41.7        44.0         44.0          23.4         43.8          67.2
ADB               27.3        20.8         20.8          16.0         19.1          35.1
Norway             0.7         5.0          5.0          0.4           2.3          2.7
Netherlands        15.5        7.5          7.5          5.7           6.2          11.9
Others l/                                                             38.2          38.2
ZESA                                                     4.0                        4.0
Total         87.2        99.0         186.2        49.5          109.6        159.1
1!     ZESA is seeking loans for Kariba Uprating, in total estimated at US$ 38.2 million, and has budgeted
US$4 million for the fiscal years 1995 through 1998.



- 21 -
ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
1.           Benefits accruing from the project relate to Operations Support Component of
Hwange, Distribution and Transmission Works and Kariba Uprating.
2.           The Operations Support Component has helped reduce unplanned outages through
provision of spares and services for maintenance and expertise for plant operation. Avoided loss
in generation due to reduction in outages is conservatively estimated at 10OGWh - barely three-
week generation of the smallest Hwange unit. Reduced outages also resulted, due to reduced
frequency of unplanned interruptions, in about 10,000 MT saving in diesel oil consumption which
is used in firing burners during starting. This is valued at Zim. $23.5 million in current prices.
3.           The Distribution Works are expected to reduce losses by 105GWh annually, a
reduction in the percentage loss of about 1 %, and unmet demand benefit on account of 24,500
new customers is estimated at 5GWh. Transmission loss reduction benefit is estimated at
105GWh, slightly under 1 % reduction in percentage loss.
4.           The additional 84MW capacity attributed to the Kariba Uprating contributes
88GWh of energy annually due to improved turbine efficiency and a minimum of 168GWh
additional generation to the system annually, half of which will accrue in 1998 and the total as
from 1999.
5.           Based on the investment of the Power 11 project, evaluation of costs and benefits
up to the year 2015 gives an economic rate of return of 12% discounted to 1987 at 5% discount
rate. This includes the Kariba Uprating which is deemed completed for purposes of the
preparation of the ICR. Excluding the Uprating, the economic rate of return is 10%.
6.           Based on the latest estimate, the cost of the Kariba Uprating (to be implemented
during 1995/96 to 1997/98) discounted to 1987 is US$375 per kW, commpared to the appraisal
figure of US$227. The increase in specific cost is accounted for partly by inflation (completion
time being delayed by 6 years in relation to appraisal) and partly due to an increase in scope in
the rehabilitation of electrical works. In spite of cost increases, the specific cost of US$375 per
kW is about 30% below that of the alternative gas turbine plant.
7.           The total foreign cost of Power 11 has increased by US$10.6 million (from US$99
million) whereas the local cost has decreased by US$37.7 million (from US$87.2 million to
US$109.6 million) with a net reduction in the appraised total cost from US$186.2 million to
US$159.1 million. The project scope has, if anything, increased. Some changes in content and
reallocation to suit were made, as in the case of the Operations Support Component, to where
resources were needed most. The Project has thus been cost effective.



Table 9A: Status of Legal Covenants
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
(Loan 2900-ZIM)
Original               Revised
Covenant          Present        Fulfillment Date        Fulfillment Date        Description of Covenant
Agreemenit         Section           Type             Status                                                                                               Comments
Loan            4.02(b)                         Partially            12/31/1992             06/30/1994        The Borrower shall, at least      The Hwange power station
fulfilled                                                     until the completion of the      operations support contract
Project, take all necessary      with an expatriate
measures to ensure that          management company was
adequate operational support     terminated in December
staff satisfactory to the        1990, against the Bank's
Gurantor and the Bank is         advice but following a high
available for maintenance and    bid for further extension.
operation.                       However, a smaller support
team was appointed up to
revised loan closing date.
4.02(c)
Almost nil         06/30/1988           Not established      The Borrower shall rationalize   Salaries for senior staff were
the structure and levels of     increased by about the
compensation packages for its    closing date but remained
staff by June 30, 1988 and       uncompetitive with the                   Na
thereafter shall maintain        private sector. However,
appropriate structure and levels   actions were slow and no
required to retain and to attract    adjustments were made for
high level and skilled staff.    the professional staff,
resulting in higih tumover
especially in finance and
accounting fields.
5.01(b)(ii)                          Yes           Annual to project       Not applicable      The Borrower shall fumish to     Audited accounts were
completion                                    the Bank as soon as possible,    generally received in time
but in any case not later than   and were accepted without
six months after the end of      qualifications.
each year: (a) certified copies
of its financial statements for
such year as so audited; (b) the
report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope anti in
such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested.



Table 9B: Status of Legal Covenants
ZIEBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
(Loan 2900-ZIM)
Original              Revised
Covenant         Present        Fulfillment Date      Fulfillment Date       Description of Covenant
Agreement         Section          Type            Status                                                                                           Coimments
Loan           5.02(a)                            Yes                                                    Not later than March 31, 1988.   The investment program
in respect of the Borrower's   covering five year periods,
Five Year (1988-92) Power      including the extended
Investment Program, and        period 1994-98, was
thereafter not later than March    received most of the time
31 in each year, the Borrower    within a few months of the
shall prepare and fumish to the    of the stated date of March
GurantoT and the Banik a draft    31.
of its investment program
covering the five year period
commencing on July I of each
year.
5.02(b)                           Yes                                                    Following review of each such    Generally, the principle has
draft, the Borrower shall adopt   been applied, but financial
a Power Investment Program     constraints have limited                M
for the five-year period in    program implementation in
question which shall be        full. The FY 94-98 program
satisfactory to the Guarantor  has also been reviewed to
and the Bank.                  comply with similar
conditionality under the
follw-up power loan (loan
No. 3696-ZIM).
5.02(c)                           Yes                                                    Until the date of adoption of   No project costing over
each Five - Year Investment    US$50 million has been
program and thereafter, the    implemented without
Borrower shall not carry out   consultation with the Bank.
any investment estimated to
cost in excess of US$50
million, which is not included
in its adopted Power
Investment Program for the
period in question, without
prior consultation with the
Bantk.



Table 9C: Status of Legal Covenants
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PRAJECT
(Loan 2900-ZIM)
Original              Revised
Covenant         Present        Fulfillment Date      Fulfillment Date       Description of Covenant
Agreement         Section          Type             Status                                                                                          Comments
Loan            5.03(a)                        Fulfilled by   Start June 30, 1988    Postponed by one    The Borrower shall take all     The loan was declared
June 30,1994   through June 30,      year                   necessary measures so that by  effective on January 16,
and thereafter                              June 30, 1988, June 30,1989     1989 and hence monitoring
and June 30, 1990 its accounts    comlliance started as of
receivable shall have been     June 30, 1989. Receivables
reduced no more than 90 days,   up to and including June 30,
75 days and 60 days, of        1993 were at best 90 days.
revenues by die respective     Ilowever, Ih fiscal year 94
dates referred to above.       figure has improved
Thereafter, the Borrower's     substantially to 58 days
accounts receivable shall be   following the completion of
maintained at or below 60 days   the billing computerisation
of revenue.                    under the project.
Except otherwise as the Bank
5.05                                                                                    shall otherwise, the Borrower
shall:
5.05(a)(i)                     Not fulfilled       12/31/1988                             Carry out annually a            Disagreement between
revaluation of its fixed assets in   Zimbabwe and Zambia on
operation, to such extent as   indices for valuating the
sball be necessary to reflect  Centr.dl Afr.a Power
adequately, at the tine of each    Company's issets, which
such revaluation, the current  owned the (. mbined assets
value thereo, in accordance    (including hariba) from pre-
with sound and consistently    independence, has indered
applied method of valuation    revaluation efforts. ZESA is
acceptable to revaluation, to be    awaiting agrrement on the
completed by December 31,      value of assets to be
1988; and                      transferred.



Table 9D: Status of Legal Covenants
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
(Loan 2900-ZIM)
Oiiginal              Revised
Covenant         Present        Fulfillment Date       Fulfillment Date        Description of Covenant
Agreement         Section           Type            Status                                                                                            Comments
Loan          5.05(a)(ii)                      Not fulfilled       12/31/1988                              (a) Incorporate and utilize the    L:SA was unable to
results of its fixed assets    (letermine financial
revaluation in its annual       performance in the absence
determination of financial      of knowledge of value of
performance; and (b) take such    assets to be transferred from
measures to cam, for each       CAPC. The determination of
financial year and its financial    indices to be used for
year ending on June 30, 1987,    revaluation of assets and
an annual retum of not less     related legal issues have now
than seven percent of the       been referred to arbitration
average current net value of the   by the two countries.
Borrower's fixed assets in
operation.
6.01(b)                          Not fulfilled   06/30/1988            No revised date set    The reconstitution of the       The loan was declared
Central African Power           effective on January 16,                 tn
Corporation to be completed by    1989, after the covenanted
June 30, 1988 or such later     date and no revised date was
date as the Bank may agree.     established because of
anticipated agreements by
the responsible ministers of
Zimbabwe and Zambia
jointly owning Kariba from
pre-independencedays. The
lingering disagreement on
the in(l ices for revaluation of
the as, is and related legal
issues 'iave now been
referred to arbitration.



ZIMBABWE
Power II project
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned        Planned        Revised         Revised         Actual          Actual
Stage of         Weeks    j      US$            Weeks           US$            Weeks           US$
project cycle                 _               _
Through              NA             NA              NA              NA            110.3            NA
Appraisal       _
Appraisal-           NA             NA              NA              NA             17.8            NA
Board           _
Board-               NA             NA              NA              NA             8.4             NA
Supervision'        77.8          23,700           108.4          22,200           73.0          23,800
Completion            6           17,800            10            29,600           3.62          10,7002
TOTAL          |    83.8          41,500           118.4          51,800          213.1          34,500
1) Dollar amount available only for FY 94 and FY 95 (supervision started in FY 88).
2) Up to December 1, 1994 (project closed on June 30, 1994).



ZIMBABWE
Power II Project
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance     Rating
Number                 Specialized    Implemen-       Develop-
Stage of      Month/       of       Days in    Staff Skills      tation          ment         Types of
project cycle     Year    persons       field      Represented      Status      Objectives       Problems
Through         1/83 to       21          52       Engineer,       Completed   Satisfactory  Finance
Appraisal       11/86                              Economist,                                  staff
Financial                                  retention;
Analyst, and                               Financial
Training                                   problems and
specialist                                 covenants
Appraisal          7/87       2           8        Economist          NA             NA       Reviewing
through Board                                      and                                        status and
Approval                                           Financial                                  agreeing on
Analyst                                    date for
negotiations
Board             10/88       5           14       Financial           1             1             None
Approval                                           Analyst;
through                                            Economist;
effectiveness                                      and Engineer
Supervision     8/89 to       21         122       Economist     Three Is;    Three           Breach of
8/94, 12                          (TM),          Six 2s and   ls;Three 2s   financial
missions                          Engineer and  three not    Three 3s and  covenant and
Financial     available    three not       power
Analyst                     available      shortage due
to draught.
Shortage of
finacing
l________  _______                               ___________   ____________   hydro   rehab.
Completion      10/94 to      2                    Financial
2/95                              Analyst and
Engineer






- 28 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX A
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






ZIMBABWE ELECTRIC SUPPLY AUTHORITY
HEAD OFFICE.                                                        OUR REF
ELECTRICITY CENTRE, 25 SAMORA NIICHEL AVENUE, HARARE.
P 0 BOX 377, HARARE.                                                YOUR REF
TELEPHONE: 739033/9, 739081, 737791, 739041/9, 739030          WHEN CALLING WITH PEFERENCE
739061/5                                                           TO THIS LETTER.
PLEASE ASK FOR
FAX. 739854/5 TELEX 24323 ZW
TELEFAX (202) 477 - 6391
26 MAY 1995
The Director
Energy and Infrastructure Operations
The World Bank
Washington DC 20433
U.S.A.
Attention: Mr. A. Telahun
Dear Sir,
ZIMBABWE POWER II LOAN 2900 ZIM ICR
Please find attached the Borrower's contribution to the Power II Implementation Completion
Report.
Yours faithfully.
(signed)
GENERATION DIRECTOR
c.c. Finance Director






ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
POWER II PROJECT
LOAN 2900-ZIM
Comment on the World Bank's
Implementation Completion Report
Dated March 1995
Kariba South Uprating Component
The issue of the valuation and sharing of assets and liabilities of the former CAPC has remained elusive.
Agreement had been reached by the two governments of Zimbabwe and Zambia to refer the matter to
international arbitration. Before this agreement could be implemented, another decision was made to
exhaust internal channels of dispute resolution. The matter has therefore been referred back to the
Attorney Generals of the two countries for further consultation.
The valuation and sharing of assets was a pre-condition for the CDC loan effectiveness. The loan was
therefore never made effective and this delayed the Kariba South Uprating Component. This component
is now being implemented by ZESA using alternative sources of finance and will be completed in 1998.
Transmission
The Power 1I project, co-financed by the World Bank and the African Development Bank, was not
sufficient to cover ZESA'a requirements to reinforce the transmission and sub-transmission system, most
of which were revealed following the transmission system studies undertaken under Power II. ZESA
therefore launched an additional program to complement Power II's transmission and distribution
components and referred to it as the Expanded Power Plan II. Changes in the Power II project
components were introduced, the main ones being transfer of major substations to the expanded scope and
use of ADB's Power II funds to additionally reinforce and extend the transmission lines.
The results of these changes is recorded in paragraph 12 of the draft Implementation Completion Report
of the World Bank. Substations installed under the expanded scope of Power Plan II totaled 875 MVA for
330 kV and 645 MA for 132 kV, or a grand total transmission substation capacity of 1520 MVA
compared to 680 MVA estimated during the appraisal of Power II (paragraph 5 (c) of the ICR).
Additionally 150 MVA of 33kV distribution transformers were installed under the expanded scope. The
expanded transmission component is due to be fully completed in June 1996.



-2 -
The project objectives of Power II project to improve the efficiency and reliability of power supply are
already being realized. Bindura is now fed at 132kV compared to 88kV whilst Harare has a second high
voltage in feed at Dema. Bindura and Dema will take terminal equipment for the 4OOkV line from Cahora
where the 400kV line from Matimba (ESKOM, South Africa) will terminate. The completion of Haven
330/132kV substation in June 1996 will relieve the overloaded Sherwood 330/88kV substation in the
Midlands.
In total, ZESA sourced an additional US$99.4 million equivalent in foreign exchange for the expanded
scope from Finnish Export Credit (US$46.6 million), EIB (US$21 million), Swiss and Norwegian Export
Credit (US$10.8 million). ZESA provided the local currency requirements totalling Z$140 million.
Distribution
Due to some delays in implementing the Distribution Component as well as due to some changes in its
scope, the amount allocated for the distribution component was exceeded by some US5$ million. Due to
about one year delay in the declaration of effectiveness of the Power II loan, ZESA had to look for other
sources to meet the pressing demands for the distribution network. Parallel search for funding at times
without regard to properly coordinated planning resulted in overstock of distribution materials (conductor,
transformer etc). Typically, substantial distribution works were included under the expanded Power Plan
11, and FINNIDA funded components are still under construction.
The following benefits have accrued through the implementation of the Distribution Component under
Power II project: (i) Connection of suppressed load in a number of localities within easy reach of the
network; and (ii) improvement in the reliability of supply in a number of peri urban areas.
The need for detailed study with clearly identified problems and established objectives are key lessons
learnt from the implementation of Power 11 project and its expanded scope. In recognition of these
lessons, ZESA has embarked on a Distribution Masterplan study for Harare and Bulawayo. ZESA will,
under this study, acquire hardware and software and train its staff to extend the study to other parts of
Zimbabwe. Projects will originate from such studies in line with the priority to be established under
ZESA's medium and short term plans.
Hwange Operations Support
The Power II project rendered it possible to carry out needed repairs and maintenance and mandatory
overhauls which substantially improved the reliability and efficiency of the station within the range of
international standards. The project has eased ZESA's major difficulty in sourcing foreign exchange for
procurement of spare parts and services. The need for regular technical auditing and timely rectification
based on appropriate evaluation are lessons learnt from the implementation of Power II. Such an
approach would avoid uneconomic levels of inventory.
Massive recruitment of expatriate engineers, insensitive to transfer of know how and career aspiration of
Zimbabwean engineers, proved counterproductive. This was corrected under Power II project through
selective placement of experienced expatriates in key areas of Hwange operations, imparting operational
and managerial skills to counterpart ZESA staff and resulting in the achievement of operational
sustainability under the responsibility of ZESA's own staff.
Management Information System Component (MIS)
The objective of the MIS component was to develop a strategy for and implement computerization
systems in priority areas of ZESA's operations.



- 3 -
The Customer Information System incorporating billing, revenue collection, cash receipting and debtors'
management was identified as being of the highest priority. This has been installed at all the five Area
offices and at four District Offices. A backup computer hardware had to be used to implement the Cl
System at Bindura district which could no longer cope with the manual system. The financial systems,
providing for general ledger, creditors, budgets, cash book, and projects' finance, have been installed at
all Area Offices and Power Stations. Systems for fixed assets are currently being installed. Other
applications implemented include:  purchase order management, stores/inventory management, job
costing, planned maintenance, and executive information system as well as fleet management and
personnel management systems.
Due to insufficient funding, the three small Thermal Power Stations were removed from the scope of the
project, and are, along with major computerization needs, included under the ongoing Power III project.
The MIS component has achieved the desired objective of computerizing essential ZESA operations. The
core systems in place under Power 1I form a solid foundation for implementing the next stage of
computerization which, among others, include further decentralization and empowerment of employees
trough provision of hardware and software and training.  Introduction of an appropriate Executive
Information System to improve organizational transparency will be the focus of the MIS component
under the Power III project.
The MIS component has assisted greatly in setting in motion smooth organizational transformation. The
World Bank's supervisory missions were very helpful in ensuring that objectives were achieved and
results were forthcoming as a result of which ZESA'a project team never lost sight of the broader goal
and potential of the component.
Overall Achievement of ProJect ObJectives
The main project objectives of improving the reliability and quality of power supply and of enhancing
institutional development were achieved.  Hwange Power Station was able to attain international
standards of plant availability whilst contributing over 50% of Zimbabwe's energy requirements. The
Operations Support component facilitated the transfer of know how to Zimbabweans who now hold key
management positions at Hwange. Some external assistance in the form of technical experts in critical
areas and service contracts for maintenance of plant have been retained to ensure sustainability.
The MIS project objectives, particularly the computerization of the billing function were met. This has
enabled the accounts receivables to be reduced from a peak of 99 days in FY93 to 58 days on FY94.
Although some delays were experienced in the distribution component, the overall objective of improving
the reliability of supplies and connecting the suppressed load was met. The need for more detailed studies
have been identified and this will form the basis of a future distribution project.
The delivery of the vehicles financed under the Power II significantly improved the operations of ZESA.
Although more vehicles are still required and are being purchased under Power III, the fault intervention
time has improved and the rate of connecting new customers has also increased.
Borrower's Performance
The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory although there are areas where improvements
could have been made.



- 4 -
An overall project co-ordinator with line responsibilities for a major component of the project should have
been appointed. During the project implementation, the Deputy General Manager for Finance was
appointed the project co-ordinator because it was then felt that more focus on project accounting was
required. As it happened, with the changes in scope that occurred, more focus on the physical project
implementation and project objectives was required.
The project was implemented at a time when the organization was still grappling with the structural
changes required by one amalgamation of all the electricity undertakings in the country.  Various
procedures in terms of project accounting, supervision and operations had to be harmonized. At the same
time, a policy of decentralization was being implemented. A number of staff were new to their positions
and the staff turnover rate was on the high side.
In spite of these institutional problems, the organization was still able to manage the physical
implementation of such a large project whose scope was subsequently expanded.
Some problems relating to loan covenants were beyond the control of ZESA. Taking into account the
experience of sharing the Railways assets formerly owned by the Federation of Southern and Northern
Rhodesia, the CDC precondition on loan effectiveness was totally unrealistic.
Bank's Performance
WorldBank
The World Bank adopted a measure of flexibility in respect of covenants and the re-allocation of funds.
This stance contributed significantly to the success of the project. A good example is the reallocation of
Operations Support funds that enabled the overall objectives to be met whilst at the same time addressing
the needs of the borrower.
Regular supervision missions helped to maintain the focus on the overall objectives. The various project
teams were therefore kept on track. Open dialogue was used to resolve problems during the project
implementation.
The CDC was very rigid in their approach and this resulted in significant delays to the Kariba South
Component and escalation of project costs. Even after the draft final valuation report had been produced and
assurance given that Kariba South, by virtue of its location on the Zimbabwean side of the border would be
owned by Zimbabwe, they still could not relax their conditions.
In the end, what became clear was that CDC was changing their focus from financing public sector projects to
financing private sector projects. Once this became clear, ZESA unilaterally decided to source alternative
finance for the Kariba South component.
Other Financiers
The performance of the other financiers was generally satisfactory although in certain instances, delays in
approving procurement recommendations negatively affected the project implementation.
The main problem was with lack of coordination between the various financiers. A co-financed project
requires close liaison of financiers to avoid duplication of work. Procedures relating to project supervision and
reporting could be harmonized to the benefit of all.



- 29 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
APPENDIX B
MAP






IBRD 22659
p 2e'                                       30-                                          327
ZIMBABWE
POWER SECTOR INFRASTRUCTURE
,r,,,,34      r     /        OAOACA. .S.q 
t t ~~~~~~~ ef - Mee7t0~~~~~~~~~~~or GorQa;
/                                      ~~~~MOZAMBIQUE
20                 n.rrrsn [irtrN O                                                                R    T    H    E   R   N
Z  A  M  B I ASubtation
ctrmicat_on Zone  Ond s                            N    T    R    A   L
*1|330kV Transmission Lines \Un_lenCcamtsrcct.o,m
*      Thedrmol Plants (Bebabilitati.on)                                                                                                         /
_-    Internotionol Boondomies                                                      '5                                                        / \.
-22-                                                ~~~~BOTSWANA    t sr                           /                              ."/   MOZ A MBI QU E
.N1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~A.
o         50)      10t        150                                       ;                                               -A
K, L(METE35 OS                       . _'                                                           H     AFRICA\
       26-    50* f 2B-                                                                     30 N                                       32
330 kV Tm-4.i- Li-IE _
Othe,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPE5E Mo99 Tw ii   i









RePcrt No:        1487
Tyi&:  ICP        I



