Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6642-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
December 14, 1987
Southern Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations
This documet hgas a rekied ddbtom md may be ue by mln o*l in the pedormsane of
their ofilcda dudes Its conens may nt ohewise be dkidoed wUout Wodd Bank mutod       |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00  -  Z$1.7
Z$1.00   =  US$0.6
Z$1.00   -  100 Zimbabwe cents (Z*)
WEIGHIS AND MEASURES
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)            1 million kilowatt hours
1 hectare                    w   2.47 acre
1 joule (J)                      0.00948 Btu
1 kilocalorie (kcal)         -   0.00397 British thermal units (Btu)
kilogram (kg)              -   2.205 pounds
1 kilojoule (kJ)             -   1,000 joules
1 kilovolt (kV)              -   1,000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                  1,000 watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)        X   1,000 watt hours
kVA, 14VA                    -   kilovolt ampere, Megavolt ampere
1 liter (1)                  -   1.057 quarts
1 Mesajoule (MJ)                  1 million joules
1 Megawatt (MW)              X   1,000 kilowatts
I meter (m)                  -   3.28 feet
p.a.                         -   per annum
1 square meter (m2)          -   10.75 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)     -   0.386 square miles
I terawatt hour (TWh)        -   1,000 million kilowatt hours
toe                          -   tonnes of oil equivalent
I tonne (t)                  a   1,000 kg
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BEI     -   British Electricity International
CAPC    -   Central African Power Corporation
CDC     -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CIDA    -   Canadian International Development Agency
CTB     -   Central Tender Board
EdF     -   Electricite de France
*EIB    -   European Investment Bank
ESB     -   Electricity Supply Board (Ireland)
ESC     -   Electricity Supply Commission
ESMAP   -   Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
HAP     -   Higher Authority for Power
IESC    -   International Executive Service Corporation
MED     -   Municipal Electricity Department
MEWRD   -   Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Development
MM      -   Ministry of Mines
NOCZIM -   National Oil Company of Zimbabwe
PSIP    -   Public Sector Investment Program
RECC    -   Rural Electrification Coordinating tommittee
RSA     -   Republic of South Afr'ca
SADCC   -   Southern African Development Coordinacion Conference
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Program
WCC     -   Wankie Colliery Company
ZESA    -   Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
ZESCO   -   Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZRA     -   Zambezi River Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



- 1 -                FOR OFFICIAL US ONLY
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower and Beneficiary: Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA)
Guarantor: Zimbabwe
Amount: US$44 millior
Terms:   20 years, including a 5-year grace period
Project Objectives:
The project would improve the efficiency and reliability of powe.
supply through the rehabilitation and upgrading of powv, facilities. The
project is of high priority and consistent with the least-cost means of
meeting the growing demand on the power system.  Additionally, it would
enhance institutional development by consolidating reorganization of the
sector, introducing efficient decision-making procedures and strengthening
power operations through staff training and operational support.   The
project would also contribute to establishing long-term development policy
and investment priorities through introducing economic power pricing and
helping to develop in-house planning capabilities.
Project Description:
The project comprises the refurbishment of generating units and
auxiliaries at the Kariba South Bank Hydropower Station, rehabilitation and
extension of the distribution and transmission networko, provision of
equipment for workshops, vehicles, trainbing, power operations support,
management information system and computer facilities, engineering
services, and studies of transmission network development and power system
behavior and load frequency control.
Benefits and Risks:
The principal benefit of the proposed project would be to provide
more power at improved reliability to all consumer categories. The project
would also benefit the institutional development of ZESA through the
training of Zimbabwean technical and management staff. The economic rate
of return on the project investments would be about 18%. The project faces
no special risks.
This document has a rstited distribution and may be used by rcipents ony in the perfomance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- Is -
Project Cost Estimate
Local    Forelsin   Total
- -(USr million).-
Project Components
1.  Kariba South Rehabilitation                1.4       14.5      15.9
2.  Distribution Networks                     23.9       16.5      40.4
3.  TransDLssion Network                      20.3       15.9      36.2
4.  Workshops and Equipment                    6.7        2.1       8.8
5.  Vehicles                                   4.8        5.7      10.5
6.  Manpower and Training                      1.4        1.3       2.7
7.  Power Operations Support                   2.0        7.5       9.5
8.  MIS and Facilities                         1.8        2.8       4.6
9.  Engineering Services                       0.5        1.8       2.3
10.  Studies                                    _         0.9        0.9
Base Costs                             6.6.0               131.8
Contingencies:
Physical                             4.4       4.2        8.6
Price                               20.0      25.8       45.8
Taxes and Duties a/                             1.9        -         1.9
Total Project Cost                             89.1       99.0     188.1
_           _-
Interest during Implementation                 36.0       -         36.0
Total Financing Required              125.1                224.1
Oecm
a/ Only vehicles are subject to taxes and duties.



- iii w
Proiect Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
-  (US  million)  -
ZESA's Cash Generation              125.1       -        125.1
IBRD Loan                             _        44.0       44.0
CDC Loan                              -        21.7       21.7
ADB Loan                              -        20.8       20.8
Norwegian Grant                       -         5.0        5.0
Dutch Loan                            -         7.5        7.5
Total                          125.1      99.0      224.1
Estimated Disburseuents of IBiD Loan:
IBRD FY                   1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
Annual                   4.8     13.7      16.6      6.6       2.3
Qimulative               4.8     18.5      35.1     41.7     44.0
Mao IBRD No. 20119



ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
STAF? APPRAISAL 110RT
Table of Contents
pame No.
I.  THE ENERGY SECTOR        I.....     ........e.eeeoe,.    1
Energy Resources                                             I I
Biomass I............................ 
Coal 2.....e .........................................    2
Hydropower *...........................................    2
Solar Energy *     .........................................    2
Wind Energy ...............     * ......................    3
Energy Demand and Supply  ...............................    3
Woodfuels ooo* .ooo.o..ooo..........eoo*o                  3
coal  *...........e ...*....o.**..............*......*...    3
Electricity  o*o.............*o.......o.................    4
Petroleum Products o ...............................,.o    5
Energy Sector Organization       ..........................*...    5
Energy Pricing    .o.o.......... .*.**oo...e*ooooo..o...e*...  6
Coal *000o00o0.e4000o0oo000o***ooo000000o00000o0000oo04*    7
Petroleum Products o.o.................................. 
CI.  THE POWER -UBSECTOR 700.000............0..0....0.........    9
Reorganization of the Subsector o............o...........    9
WAC and Zi~A...o..o............................0.0...0.0.  10
HAP and the Council of Ministers  1...............2........   1
Existing Facilities  o...Sub o ..    ..............0............   12
Access to Service and Rural Electrification ............    14
Lemand Forecast o...*..o.................................   15
Ixtternational Power Trade and System Interconnections o..   15
Development Program ..........................*..o.oo....    16
Experience with Past Leading .........................o..   19
Role of the Bank .................................oo..    20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zimbabwe In December 1986, consisting of V. Mastilovic (Mission Leader),
RL Mitchell (Senior Financial Analyst), J. Besant-Jones (Senior Energy
Economist), C. Killoran (Consultant, Power Engineer), and R. Castro
(Operations Analyst). The mission was joined by Mr. J. Knight from the
Commonwealth Development Corporation, UK. The report has been updated
following missions to Zimbabwe during 1987 by J. Besant-Jones and R.
Mitchell.



III.  THE BORROWER ...............  *   . e   ,                   20
Organization and Management                                 20
Amalgamation of Power Entities ........................    21
Manpower                          .....                     21
Training                                                    22
Accounting and Audits ......23
Billing und Collection ............................   24
Management Information System   ..........................  24
Financial Organization                                      25
Insurance and Taxes                                         25
IV.  THE PROJECT  ............        ..      ...e..   25
Project Objectives                    ....................  25
Project Description ....................  26
Project Costs                     ......*****vv****v***v   27
Fitcing Plan .......e....****e...oeo...ee.oe.o.   29
Status of Preparation ....29
Consulting Services and Operational Support .e.........   30
Project Implementation.                                     30
Procurement                                                 30
Disbursements      .................. .                 *   31
Environmental Aspects                                       33
Project Risks  .......................               * ,    33
Project Monitoring                                          33
V.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........34
Consolidation of Accounting Practices                       34
Past Operations and Present Financial Position      ..      34
Tariffs                                                     3>
Financial Plan ........................................   36
future Operations and Financial Performance                 38
Revaluation of Assets                                       38
VI* PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                        39
Power System Rehabilitation and Extensions ...e..........   39
Generation Development                 ...................  40
Transmission and Distribution Development     ........_     40
Economic Rate of Return ........................ .... o..  41
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                              42
Conditions of Effectiveness  .... .........................  43
Recommendation ........                                     43



-U
1.1   National Energy Balanee:  1985
1.2  Power Generation and Supply Statistics FY77-FYS7
2.1   Installed Generating Capacity in Zimbabwe
2.2   Transmissian Network Development Study: Terms of Reference (Draft)
2.3   Power System Transient behavior and load Frequency Control:
Terms of Reference (Draft)
2.4   Load Forecast for Zimbabwe FY87-FT96
2.5   Power System Development Program  for Zimbabwe
2.6   Zimbabwe's Power Investment Program PY88-YY93
3.1  ZESA's Organization Chart
3.2  ZESA's Manpower Statistics (end 1986)
3.3   Project Operational Support and Training Program
4.1   Project Description
4.2   Detailed Estimate of Project Base Costs
4.3   Estimated Quantities and Costs of Equipment and Materials for Project
Couponents
4.4   Project Financing Plan
4.5   Project Implementation Schedule
4*6   IBRD Loan Disbursement Schedule
4.7   Project Monitoring Guidelines and Performance Indicators
5.1   Projected Income Statements for ZESA FY87-FY93
5.2   Projected Asset Revaluation and Revenue Schedules for ZESA FY87-FY93
5.3   Projected Funds Flows for ZESA FY87-FY93
5.4   Projected Balance Sheets for ZESA FY87-FY93
5.5   Notes and Assumptions for Projected  inaancial Statements for ZESA
6.1   Economic Justification for Uprating Kariba South Power Station
6.2   Average Economic Cost of Power from the Medium-Voltage Transmission
and Distribution Components
6.3   Average Economic Cost of Power from the Low-Voltage Distribution
Components
6.4   Economic Rate of Return
7.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map IBED 20119



ZIMBABWE
SECOND POWER PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
1.01      Zimbabwe's main indigenous etnergy resources are biomass, coal and
hydropower.   Prospecting  for crude o41,  natural gas,  uranium ore and
geothermal energy has not proven any substantial reserves. All petroleum
products are currently imported. Some potential exists for the development
of solar and wind energy. Detailed information on the energy resources in
Zimbabwe is given in the report of the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy
Assessment (Zimbabwe: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, June 1982).
1.02     Biomass.  Biomass fuels (fuelwood and ethanol) accounted for about
60% of total energy consumption in 1985. Wood is the most important source
of energy for both rural and low-income urban households, and about 70% of
all fuelwood is uied for cooking.  Serious deforestation problems are now
afflicting large areas of Zimbabwe's communal lands.   The deforestation
stems primarily from the clearance of land for agriculture and the
collection of wood for fuel. A survey of forest resources in Zimbabwe was
completed in u-id-1987 as part of the World Bank-funded Rural Afforestation
Project (CR. 1368-ZIM).   The area of surviving and accessible woodland is
around 7.5 million hectares, equivalent to sbout 20% of the national land
area.   The  total accessible growing stock of fuelwood in Zimbabwe is
estimated to be 320 million air-dried tonnes with an annual sustainable
increment of about 13 million air-dried tonnes. The estimated off-take is
approximately equal to the sustainable yield, but there are serious
imbalances between supply and demand within regions, especially in the
communal areas.
1.03       Zimbabwe produces many agricultural residues with potential use
as fuel. The most important are sugar cane molasses and juices which are
used  in ethanol  production.    Ethanol  is blended  with petrol  in  the
proportion of about 13:87 and used as a fuel for motor vehicles.   The
annual production of ethanol has reached 40 million liters which requires
about 180,000 tons of molasses or 5.2 million tons of sugar cane. Ethanol
is used as a substitute for imported petrol in order to reduce petroleum
product  import bills.   The  experience with the production and use of
ethanol in Zimbabwe has been satisfactory, and Government has approved the
expansion of ethanol production to increase the proportion of local ethanol
in blended petroleum to 20%, the maximum proportion feasible with
unmodified petrol motors.   Most of the charcoal produced in Zimbabwe is
made from wattle residues, but it is not widely used in Zimbabwe.   Other
agriculture residues are too scattered or have higher alternative uses to
be of interest as fuels.



-2-
1.04      Coal.  Zimbabwe has large coal resources located in 24 coalfields
witn estimated probable reserves of about 10.6 billion tonnes in situ, of
which only 0.19 billion tonnes, 2% of the total, has been proven.  The
extent of probable reserves that could be mined by open-cast methods is
about 1 billion tonnes of mineable coal, and the remainder is classified as
having underground mining potential.   The most important coal mine In
Zimbabwe is Wankie Colliery, which has total in situ reserves of 642
million tonnes, of which shout 300 million tonnes are mineable reserves.
The quality of coal at the bottom of coal seams is rather high with a
calorific value of 31 MJ/kg and ash content of less than 18%. Coal at the
top of the coal seams is used for power generation since its quality
(average calorific value of 25 KJ/kg) is too low for other uses.   The
incremental cost of mining this coal is virtually zero since It is removed
as a by-product in the process of extracting the deeper coking coal in
open-cast mines.   Tho ratio of power coal to coking coal is roughly 2:1
across all the opencast reserves and around 1:1 in the Wankie opencast
mine.
1.05       Hydropower.  The hydropower potential of Zimbabwe is large and
concentrated on the stretch of the Zambezi River which forms Zimbabwe's
border with Zambia.   The estimated hydropower potential of this stretch
totals on average about 37 TWh annually, of which 10.6 TWh has already been
developed at Kariba and Victoria Falls.   The hydropower potential of the
Zambezi along the border is shared equally with Zambia.  Development has
taken place at Kariba with a total installed capacity of 1,266 MW at power
stations on both sides of the river (666 MW at Kariba South in Zimbabwe and
600 MW at Kariba North in Zambia).   The two national power systems are
interconnected at Kariba. Extensions of the power stations at Kariba are
potential components of the power development plans of Zimbabwe and Zambia
to meet future power requirements. Additional hydropower potential within
Zimbabwe is not large (about 2 TWh p.a.) since most of the rivers other
than the Zambezi have low flows and small storage sites. The Sabi River in
southeast Zimbabwe has some h'Iropower possibilities, as does the Limpopo
River which forms the border with the Republic of South Africa (RSA).
However, their potential has not been fully investigated.   Several dam
sites are under study for possible multi-purpose use.   There are about
fifty dams built in Zimbabwe for irrigation and water supplf purposes, and
some of them could be equipped with generating units to produce about 2 GWh
annually. The discharges of small rivers in Zimbabwe are highly seasonal
and variable from year to year, so that substantial reservoirs would have
to be constructed to obtain a guaranteed flow throughout the year. Mini
hydro schemes would therefore be very expensive and unlikely to provide
electricity at an economic cost that is competitive with the large
hydropower sources.
1.06          Solar Energy.   The potential  £or using  solar energy is
significant as most parts of Zimbabwe have about 3,000 hours of sunshine
annually and the daily radiation is estimated to be around 2 kJ/cm2, which
is relatively high.   Solar water heaters are manufactured locally and
installed in hotela and hospitals. Solar energy is also used for curing
tobacco, the country's main export commodity.  However, solar energy has
limited additional commercial prospects in Zimbabwe and is not expected to
affect the overall energy supply significantly during the next decade or
two.  The University of Zimbabwe is actively involved in a solar energy
research program.



-3-
1.07       Wind Bnergy.  Meteorological records show good availability of
wind in the central and southern parts of Zimbabwe.  Windmille are used on
remote farms for water pumping.   Expanded use of windpumps for borehole
water appears to be attractive economically, and is expected to increase.
Wind energy is tot likely to be a major contributor to the market for
energy in Zimbabwe other than to supplement diesel generated power in
remote areas.
Energy Demand and Sueply
1.08      Zimbabwe's final energy consumption in 1985 is estimated to have
totalled  about  7.2 million  toe.    Energy  forms  other  than  woodfuels
("commercial energy") accounted for 36% of this total, and was composed of
domestically produced coal (20%), electricity (local and imported (8%)),
and imported petroleum products (8%). Per capita consumption of all forms
of energy amounted to about 0.9 toe.  1/   Imported energy  (petroleum
products and power) represented 17% of the total available energy supply.
The largest sectoral consumer of commercial energy was industry (47%),
followed by transport (22%), agriculture (1O%), mining (7%), households
(8%), and commercial/government (6%).  An energy balance for Zimbabwe in
1985 is given in Annex 1.1.
1.09       Woodfuels.  Woodfuels are particularly important to rural areas
and the poorer sections of the population, who usually collect rather than
purchase their wood.   A particular problem for fuelwood supply at the
national level is the unbalanced distribution of resources with demand. In
the relatively densely populated communal areas, most of the woodland
resources have disappeared. There is no mechahism at present to transfer
fuelwood resources from surplus to deficit areas.          Policy and other
measures are required to reverse the trend of growing wood use and improve
the availability of other energy supplies in deficit areas. The Government
is investigating various measures to reduce the pressures on woodstocks to
meet household energy needs, such as the more efficient use of wood, tree
planting, improved management of natural forests and woodlands, greater use
of charcoal, and substitution with coal, electricity and kerosene.
Adequate data for policy setting are presently lacking on ac-ual levels of
supply and demand for woodfuels, and a survey of the five largest urban
areas in Zimbabwe will be carried out under the Rural Afforestation Project
to provide estimates of these levels and to determine the characteristics
of the markets for woodfuels.The forestry institutions need to be
strengthened to enable them to monitor and control use of trees, and to
ensure that due regard is given to long-term wood supply and to the
associated envircnmental consequences.
1.10        Coal.  Coal is used to meet energy requirements in industry,
agriculture, power generation, railways, coke production, commerce and
households. In FY85 the total coal supply amounted to 2.93 million tonnes
of coking coal and coke, and about 1.7 million tonnes of low-quality
1/ Comparative total energy consumption (toe/capita) in neighboring
countrie: are as follows:
Malawi     -   0.5         Zambia       -   0.8
Tanzania   -   0.4        Mozambique   -   0.25
Kenya      -   0.5         Botswana     -   0.8



- 4 -
coal for use in Hwange Power Station (of which only about 0.5 million
tonnes was used in FY85).   Power generation will be the largest coal
consumer, about 3.4 million tonnes annually, when all three stages (1,680
MiJ) at the Hwange power station are completed.  The first two stages (920
MW) hsave already been commissioned.   The need and timing for the third
stage is being examined under the ongoing work on the Power System
Development Plan (para.  2.22).   This power station uses coal that is
substandard for general markets and which is overburden to better quality
seams. The Hwange power station was built specifLally to take advantage
of the overburden coal which would otherwise have to be dumped as waste.
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has participated in financing
the Wankie open-cast coal mining operations in preparation for the supply
of coal to the Hwange thermal power station. Some quantities of coal are
exported to the neighboring countries (up to 200,000 tonnes annually).
Transport constraints on the railways and restrictions on coal handling
capacity limit coal production and export capabilities. The Government is
considering the possibiliry of increasing use of coal in households,
particularly in remote areas, in order to reduce fuelwood consumption and
avert land deforestation with the consequential risks of soil erosion
(para. 1.09).   Zimbabwe coal demand projections prepared for the Energy
Pricing Study (para. 1.15) indicate an average annual growth of 1.6% up to
the year 2000.
1.11       Electricity.  Electricity generation accounts for about 10% of
total energy supply in Zimbabwe, which has one of the largest power systems
in Subsaharan Africa, mainly due to the demand of the manufacturing
sector. During FY86 the maximum demand on the Zimbabwe power system was
1,319 MW (an increas? over FY85 of 10%), and the system annual load factor
was 74%. Total electrical energy supplied to the public power system was
8,527 GWh in FY86, of which imports from Zambia amounted to 3,146 GWh (37%
of the total supply). The total quantity of electrical energy supplied in
FY86 increased by 9% compared with the previous year's increase of 3%.
Power is currently supplied from the Kariba Hydroelectric Complex and
thermal power stations at Hwange, Harare, Bulawayo and Munyati.  Hydropower
generation has been predominant (61% of generation in Zimbabwe in FY86).
The older power stations, using local coal, are operated for security
purposes during times of other generating plant shortage or breakdowns in
the transmission  systems.   New thermal capacity totalling  920 MW was
commissioned at Hwange between FY84 and FY86 and uses low quality steam
coal (para. 1.10).  It is also presently consuming substantial quantities
of diesel oil for startups and to maintain the flame stability in the
boilers.  Output from this station is scheduled to increase substantially
from FY87 onwards (from 1,864 GWh in FY86 to absut 5,750 GWh in a full year
with 920 MW in operation). Thus, Zimbabwe will have sufficient indigenous
energy generating capacity to meet its demand for some years without
imports.   However,  some backup capacity from imports will probably be
required before 1990.   Total coal and diesel oil consumption in FY86 for
power generation amounted to 889,000 and 215,000 tonnes, respectively.
Details of power generation and eupply for the fiscal years 1977 to 1987
are given in Annex 1.2.



- 5 -
1.12       Petroleum Products.  Petroleum products are currently imported
into Zimbabwe by the Beira-Feruka pipeline and rail.   Virtually all of
Zimbabwe's imports of petroleum products pass v'a Mozambique.   Normally,.
the rail route via RSA is used only for importing some of Zimbabwe's
requirements  for  paraffin,  jet  fuel  and  aviation  gas  (avgas).    The
country's only refinery at Mutare was shut down in 1966, and the economics
of reopening it are relatively unattractive, largely be,-ause the current
refinery configuration is a poor match with Zimbabwe's petroleum product
demand  pattern.   The Government has appointed  a team of experts  to
investigate the appropriateness of building a new oil refinery near Mutare
to cater to the needs of Zimbabwe and ottler countries in the region.
However, the Petroleum Fuel Supply Study prepared under IDA Credit 1296-ZIM
by Government consultants In 1984, recommended that petroleum products
should continue to be imported by pipeline and rail.  Supply of petroleum
products in 1985 reached about 950 million liters, of which diesel fuel was
51%, gasoline 37%, 9/ jet f ,l and illuminating paraffin 10%, and other
products 2%. Demand for refined petroleum products is forecast to increase
by 1.7% annually to the year 2000 according to the Energy Pricing Study.
The National Oil Company of Zimbabwe (NOCZIM) is respnosible for
procurement and primary distribution of petroleum products.
Energy Sector Organization
1.13         The organization of the energy sector is fragmented.   The
Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Development (MEWRD) has overall
responsibility for policy formulation in the energy sector, exercised
through its Department of Energy (DOE).   The main public organizations
under this ministry are the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority (ZESA)
and NOCZIM. MEWRD is also represented on the Board of the Central African
Power Corporation (CAPC) which is jointly owned by Zimbabwe and Zambia and
has been responsible for the operation of hydropower facilities on the
Zambezi.   CAPC has recently been reconstituted into the Zambezi River
Authority (para. 2.07). The Ministry of Mines (MM) has responsibility for
the coal sector.   The major company involved in coal operations is the
Wankie Colliery Company (WCC) which is owned by the Government and the
Anglo-American Corporation. Government, through MM, has two seats on the
WCC's Board of Directors. As power coal will acco'tnt for about half of the
colliery's output, an issue facing Government is the needfor direct
representation of power interests on WCC's Board of Directors.
1.14      Overlapping of responsibilities among entities is one of the main
features of the organizational structure of Zimbabwe's energy sector.
Zimbabwe has no overall set of consistent national energy objectives on
which to base a long-term plan for energy. Consequently, there is a lack
of effective planning, premature decisions on new investments, and
unbalanced development of energy resources.   The Government has ftill to
establish strategies for t,ilizing Zimbabwe's considerable indigenous coal
resources, improving energy efficiency in industries, and for regional
development and trade in energy with neighboring countries in conformity
2/ Gasoline is blended with ethanol (87%:13%), so that supply of petroleum
blend was about 270 million liters in 1985, equivalent t) about 32% of
total supply of petroleum products and ethanol.



- 6 -
with  least-cost  programs  to  meet  national  energy  demand.           The
responsibilities for managing, operating and developing the energy sector
-need to be delineated.   fhe staff '.fg of the entitiesi entrusted with the
formulation of energy plans require strengthening. This would involve the
streamlining of the institutional structure of the sector and the
coordination of human and financial resources in MEWRD with a definite
mandate for developing the energy sector. Therefore, the Government needs
to undertake a detailed review to outline the structure, responsibility,
staffing and budgetary needs of the energy sector institutions. Government
intends to prepare a plan for strengthening the planning and management of
the energy sector and for improving coordination among the energy-related
institutions in Zimbabwe. The Bank has agreed to assist Government in this
task under the Joint twDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program (ESMAP).
Energy Pricing
1.15      Zimbabwe faces complex pricing decisions in order to optimize the
supply and use of energy, particularly because of the important linkages
between energy subsectors, such as the supply of coal for power generation,
rhe existence of choice between fuels for a particular application such as
steam raising, and the important role of international trade in energy
products for Zimbabwe.   Traditionally, the structure of energy prices in
Zimbabwe has not reflected the relative economic costs of meeting the
demand for energy, and prices have been subject to large and unpredictable
increases. Under the Power I Project (Loan 2212-ZIM), consultants to MEWRD
(Coopers & Lybrand of UK) prepared an extensive Energy Pricing Study (the
Final Report was presented in January 1986) with the objective of
recommending appropriate pricing structures and levels for electricity,
liquid fuels, coal and fuelwood. The study also recommends other measures
which, together with the pricing structure, will promote an adequate supply
of energy to all consumers, taking into account both supply costs and
consumers' willingness or ability to pay for energy.   Recommended prices
are structured to reflect the costs that will be incurred to meet
additional demand, so that prices will signal to consumers the cost to the
national economy of increasing their energy consumption. These prices also
signal to energy suppliers the economic value of energy to be used in
preparing least-cost development plans.   This approach fosters the most
economically efficient allocation and use of energy resources.   Having
established  this  position  from  an  economic  viewpoint,  the  study
incorporated financial objectives of the energy supply agencies and
Government's social objectives to recommend retail price levels for energy.
1.16      The Energy Pricing Study has made a substantial contribution to
planning and managing energy sector development. The implicatio.s of the
study recommendations are preseAtly being studied by the Gov-srnment and
energy agencies in Zimbabwe, particularly with regard to coal pricing and
power tariffs, with consultant assistance financed under the Power I
Project Loan.  The work on power tariffs is incorporating the results of
the planning work presently being undertaken under the Power System
Development Plan (para. 2.22).   Under Loan 2212-ZIM, the Government is
required to implement economic pricing for energy products based on the
recommendations of the Study, and MEWRD will submit to Cabinet a policy
paper on energy pricing based on the principles recommended in the Energy



Pricing Study.   Implementation of the recommendations emanating from the
Energy Pricing Study will require substantial time, and in the case of
electricity (para. 1.20) up to three years. The proposed Power II Project
would support the implementation of rational energy pricing to ensure
acceptable corporate performance, coverage of economic costs of meeting
demand and an acceptable rate of return on revalued assets.
1.17      Woodfuels.  Fuelwood prices do not have a significant impact on
fuelwood in Zimbabwe since most fuelwood is gathered for local use in the
communal areas.  The main issue for the subsector is the need to develop
cost effective ways of meeting fuel needs in these areas and to determine
the institutional structure for promoting proper use of forest resources.
The Rural Afforestation Project (para. 1.02) is dealing with these issues
for fuelwood supply. The proposed Rural Electrification Study (para. 2.16)
would also consider relevant aspects of total energy supply in rural
areas. The outcome of these two undertakings will assist in establishing
an appropriate fuelwood policy, including the role of fuel substitution,
and  the  impact  of  optimal  fuel  choice  on  consumers,  transport,
defc7estation and the risk of loss of agricultural output.
1.18       Coal,  Coal prices require revision to reflect the structure of
economic costs, particularly prices charged by WCC which is the main
supplier of coal in Zimbabwe. The sale of overburden coal by WCC to ZESA
for the Hwange power station is mada according to the terms of the Coal
Pricing Agreement under which ZESA pays for the coal it takes on an agreed
price  per  tonne,    This  pricing  structure  is unsatisfactory  to both
parties.    WCC  cannot  predict  with  reasonable  confidence  its  future
production levels due to uncertainty about ZESA's demand, and ZESA cannot
be sure of obtaining the quantities of coal required unless WCC has a
stable demand for its power coal. The Energy Pricing Study recommends the
introduction of a two-part pricing structure for power station coal
comprising (i) a take-or-pay by ZESA component up to the forecast minimum
production of power coal by WCC in association with production of good
quality coal, and (ii) a cost per tonne taken for additional quantities.
This arrangement reflects the virtually zero marginal economic cost of
power coal up to the minimum production level, and the substantial economic
cost of mining power coal in advance of the demand for associated good
quality coal.
1.19       Under the Coal Pricing Agreement, which covers non-power coal
grades as well as sales to ZESA, WCC is permitted to set prices to earn a
17.5% rate of return on capital employed. Prices are set annually between
WCC and the Ministry of Mines (MM), and in 1985 the prices for non-power
coal were increased by between 40% and 60%.   The Energy Pricing Study
concluded that the existing financial prices for the coking coal grades and
coke delivered to the point of use corresponded closely to. the economic
coats, whereas the prices at mine-mouth were above economic costs. Rail
transport rates were below the economic costs of coal transportation. The
absence of a long-term pricing agreement creates difficulties for both WCC
to raise finance and for coal customers to predict costs and thus, make
economically  optimal  decisions  on  coal  usage.    MEWRD  has  started
discussions witb MW on introducing five-year programs for coal prices.
This issue will be addressed by Government in its review of MEWRD's policy
paper on energy pricing (para, 1.16).



- 8 -
'.20      Electricity.  Electricity prices were last increased in September
1985 by 25%, and their levels are now generally above the marginal economic
costs derived in the Energy Pricing Study, especially for industrial
users. However, price structures have not been changed and the previous
distortions in electricity tariffs still remain. Presently, there are five
sets of tariffs in Zimbabwe that correspond to the service areas of the
former Electricity Supply Commission and the four municipal electricity
departments  (para.  2.01).   In total  there is an excessive nupber of
consumer categories, about 60 nationally, most of which are defined
according to criteria that do not reflect differences in the costs of
meeting demand.   Tariff levels for broadly similar consumer categories
differ substantially between service areas, and the differentials between
consumer group0 also fail to reflect relative costs.   The adoption of a
uniform national tariff structure by ZESA is a high priority to remove
these distortions.   The Energy Pricing Study has recommended new tariff
categories and a new national tariff structure which requires substantial
time, about three years, to be fully implemented through modifying metering
arrangements and installing new electricity meters, changing billing
procedures and classifying all customers according to the new tariff
structure. This work requires detailed planning, substantial investment in
meters and control equipment, and extensive admini'1trative efforts.
1.21        The impact of the proposed tariffs will differ substantially
between consumer groups and particularly between service areas. A program
for implementing the transition has to be approved by Government.   In
particular, consumers in Bulawayo would face large tariff increases since
existing rates in this area are thie lowest in the country. Among consumer
categories, there would be a tendency for increases in tariffs for
consumers on low.voltage supply (households, commerce and small industries)
and decreases for those on high-voltage supply (mainly heavy industry and
large mines). In view of the need for ZESA to maintain a sound financial
position and for the distortions in the present tariffs to be removed as
soon as feasible, the first stages of the new tariff arrangements should be
implemented without further delay (para.  5.08).   ZESA's new management
information system (para. 3.16) under the proposed Power II project would
assist greatly in introducing new electricity pricing arrangements.
1.22       Petroleum Products.   Pricing issues for petroleum products are
concerned basically with the present distortions between retail prices for
petroleum products, especially the large differential between the prices of
pettol blend and diesel, and the role of ethanol in planning future
supply. Petrol blend carries s heavy duty which is an important source of
revenue for Government, whereas there is little duty on diesel.
Consequently, the petrol blend retail prices are nearly double the diesel
price, thereby encouraging uneconomic uses of diesel. The Energy Pricing
Study recommended that diesel prices be increased by 20% immediately and by
an additional 50% in constant price terms over five years. Such increases
would have a considerable impact on user costs, particularly on passenger
transport services, for which diesel represents a significant proportion of
total costs. The retail price of kerosene in 1985 was determined in the
Energy Pricing Study to be about 65% of the financial cost of supplying the
consumer, and thus was an even lower proportion of the economic cost taking
account of a foreign exchange premium to the financial cost. Government
has traditionally subsidized kerosene to support the living standards of



- 9 -
low-income  families  and to relieve pressure  on depleting forests and
woodlands from fuelwood demand. The Energy Pricing Study recommended that
the policy for kerosene prices should be to cover the financial cost of
supply but to a'.. 'rd with Government's social objectives by excluding all
taxes.  This policy would require an increaso in the official retail price
of about 50%.   The Energy Pricing Study recommended that any interim
subsidy for kerosene should be in the form of explicit financial support to
the fuel distributor (NOCZIM) to maintain NOCZIM's financial viability
rather than cross-subsidies from other petroleum products. This approach
is acceptable provided that the subsidy is only an interim measure to
raising the kero3ene price to cover the financial cost. The policy paper
on energy pricing will address the major issues in pricing of petroleum
products and establish a program of action for introducing prices based on
economic costs.
II. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Reorganization of the Subsector
2*01      Under the Electricity Act oi- 1985, the Government has reorganized
the power subsector by forming a national power authority in ZESA which has
taken over the responsibilities for providing electricity from the
Electricity Supply Commission (ESC) and the four municipal electricity
departments (Harare, Bulawayo, Gweru and Mutare), and the power generation
and transmission activities of CAPC (para. 2.04).  The reorganization of
the power subsector will consolidate and strengthen sectoral institutional
capability.   The transfer of the operations of the municipal electricity
departments  was  accomplishe&s  by  July  1,  1987.    ZESA  took  over  the
responsibility for operating CAPC's generating facilities in Zimbabwe on
October 1, 1987, together with CAPC staff involved with these operations
(para. 2.07).
2.02      The Electricity Act of 1985 stipulates that the functions of ZESA
are _o (i) be responsible for the generation, transmission and distributlon
of electricity throughout Zimbabwe; and (ii) investigate options for new or
additional facilities for the generation or supply of electricity. If the
Minister of MEWRD so directs, ZESA shall also acquire, control and operate
other undertakings, and acquire assets from CAPC for the purposes of
generation, transmission and supply of electricity.   ZESA is required to
submit to the Minister regular reports on its operations, undertakings and
properties. According to the Electricity Act, ZESA is authorized to make
by-laws to prescribe terms and conditions under which it will supply
electricity and provide equipment, collect money, charge fees for services
incidental to the supply of electricity, construct and operate facilities,
and regulate the operation of local undertakings involved in power supply
activities.
2.03          According to the legislation,  the operations of ZESA are
controlled and managed by the Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Board.   The
Minister of MEWRD appoints and dismisses members of the Board, which in
turn appoints the General Manager who is an ex-officio member of the Board,
subject to the approval of the Minister.  The Board consists of six to ten
members of which at least one has to represent the interests of local
authorities. The Board may establish and vest in various committees some
of its functions. These committees may include persons who are not members



- 10 -
of the Board, although they are usually chaired by Board members.   The
current chairman and members of the Board are prominent people from the
private sector, Government, university and local authorities. Although the
Electricity Act provides that ZESA shall conduct its business on sound
commercial lines, in practice ZESA does not have full autonomy to carry out
its operations along such lines. In particular, the Cabinet has the final
authority to approve changes in tariff levels and charges. HEWRD approves
operating and capital expenditure budgets. The Ministry of Labor approves
staff dismissals, Furthermore, ZESA can raise loans or borrow money only
under conditions that are approved by the Government.   A number of other
Government regulations limit ZESA's autonomy in areas such as wages, as is
the case generally for parastatal entities in Zimbabwe.   Government has
appointed a cabinet committee to examine the need for improvements in the
management of parastatal organizations.   This committee is scheduled to
present its report on ZESA around the end of 1987.
CAPC and ZRA
2.04        CAPC was established under the 1963 Central African Power Act
generally to manage the development of the Zambezi resources, and
particularly to operate the Kariba Complex, comprising the dam and the
Kariba South hydropower station, and the 330 kV high voltage transmission
networks in Zimbabwe and Zambia (partially financed by Loan 392-RN). CAPC
was also contracted in 1976 by the Government of Zambia to operate the
Kariba North Bank hydropower station.   Furthermore, CAPC controlled the
loads on other generating stations connected to the transmission network in
the two countries to ensure that the available generating capacity was
efficiently utilized and that power interchanges between Zambia and
Zimbabwe  were  conducted  according  to  established  standards.    CAPC's
governing body was the Higher Authority for Power (HAP). CAPC handled the
supply of bulk power in both countries up to 1977, when its operational and
financial procedures were modified.   It was agreed at the time in a
Memorandum of Understanding that the Kariba Complex costs and actual output
were to be shared equally by the two countries.  The Kariba Complex was
defined as:
(a)  Kariba Dam and the Kariba North and Kariba South generating
stations and associated switching substations;
(b)  the 330 kV transmission lines  connecting  the two generating
stations;
(c)  all telemetering on the Zambezi River system;
(d)  subject  to  agreement  of  both  countries,  any  other  hydro
generating stations to be constructed on the Zambezi River; and
(e)  the Sherwood control center in Zimbabwe until such time as the
Zambian Control Center becomes operational.
2.05        As a result of the Memorandum, CAPC ceased to earn revenue in
Zambia, and the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO), as an agent
of the Zambian Government, became the principal supplier of electricity in
Zambia.  CAPC's costs in Zambia were reimbursed by ZZSCO.  Additionally,



- 11 -
ZESCO reimbursed CAPC for fifty percent of the costs pertainiug to the
operation of the Kariba Complex.  In June 1985 the HAP decided that CAPC
would cease to trade in Zimbabwe with effect from July 1, 1985. This meant
that CAPC no longer earned revenues in Zimbabwe by means of a bulk supply
tariff, and 50% of its costs were reimbursed by ZESA.
2.06       A Committee of Enquiry into the Future of CAPC was appointed by
the HAP in 1983 to examine the functions, operations and future role of
CAPC in Zimbabwe and Zambia, as well as to determine the need for any
changes. The costs of the chairman of the committee were funded under the
Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP).
The Committee submitted its report to the HAP in September 1984 with four
alternative proposals.   The Committee recommended that CAPC's functions
should be limited to the operation and maintenance of the Kariba dam and
any future  dams  to be  constructed along  the Zambezi River  bordering
Zimbabwe and Zambia, and to the management of Zambezi waters along this
stretch.    According  to  this recommendation,  CAPC would  in effect  be
transformed into a river authority and would cease to be responsible for
generatAng and transmitting power.
2.07      The Governments of Zimbabwe and Zambia signed in February 1986 an
Inter-Governmental Accord to reconstitute CAPC.  Following detailed work by
bi-national committees, the two Governments signed in August 1987 an
Inter-Governmental Agreement concerning the utilization of the Zambezi
River which  superceded  the FeMrnary  1986 Accord.    In addition,  both
Zimbabwe and Zambia have promulgated legislations which provide inter alia
for the repeal of 1963 legislation establishing CAPC, and for the setting
up of the Zimbabwe River Authority (ZRA) as the successor to CAPC.  The
main functions of ZRA are to:
(a) operate, monitor and maintain the Kariba complex (dam, reservoir
and telemetery stations);
(b)  investigate  the  desirability  and  make  recommendations  on
constructing new dams on the Zambezi River (defined as the part
that forms the border between the two states);
(c) construct, operate, monitor and maintain any other dams on the
Zambezi River;
(d) collect, accumulate and process hydrological and environmental
data about the Zambezi River;
(e) regulate the water level in the Kariba reservoir and any
reservoir built in the f-iture on the Zambezi River; and
(f) liaise with the national electricity undertakings on functions
that may effect the generation and transmission of electricity to
Zimbabwe and Zambia.
Under the August 1987 Agreement and complementary legislation, CAPC became
known as  the ZRA on October  1,  1987.    CAPC's  power  generation  and
transmission facilities will become the property of the States in which
they are situated once the transitional arrangements for CAPC (para. 2.08)
have been completed. Pursuent to the transitional arrangements annexed to
the August 1987 Agreement, on October 1, 1982 ZESA took over the



- 12 -
operations of Kariba South power station, the 330 kV transmission system in
Zimbabwe and the Sherwood control center, and virtually all the CAPC staff
in Zimbabwe were transferred to ZESA.
2.08      The two Governments have agreed to a timetable for the completion
of the reconstitution of CAPC by May 1988.   The principal outstanding
activities are to (i) complete the valuation of CAPC's assets and
liabilities; (ii) allocate such assets and liabilities after obtaining the
necessary consents; and (iii) carry out the legal transfer of these assets
and liabilities to the appropriate entities.  Since it is important that
the reconstitution of CAPC be completed as quickly as possible for the
efficient operation and development of the Zimbabwe power system, ZESA and
the Government agreed during negotiations that the Bank may suspend
disbursements under its Loan if the reconstitution of CAPC in substance
satisfactory to the Bank is not completed by June 30, 1988.
HAP and the Council of Ministers
2.09          The HAP was also established in 1963 as the bi-national
organization to which CAPC was made directly responsible.   The HAP was
constituted of four members, two of whom are ministers drawn one from each
country. Any decision of the HAP had to be unanimous. The HAP appointed
the chairman of CAPC and one member of CAPC's Board acceptable to the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) which has been a major lender to
CAPC since its inception.   Th& activities of the HAP focused mostly on
general policy matters in connection with the Kariba Complex, CAPCts
operations and future development of the Zambezi resources.   Under the
Inter-Governmental  Agreement  for  the  reconstitution  of  CAPC  and
complementary legislation, the HAP now reconstituted as the Council of
Ministers with six members, will be the governing body of ZRA.
Existing Facilities
2.10      The total installed capacity of generating plants in Zimbabwe as
of December 31, 1986 was 2,071 MW, of which 666 MW (32%) was hydro and the
remainin  1,405 MW (682) coal-fired thermal power plants.  Privately-owned
generating capacity is about 4X of the total installed capacity. The only
hydropower station is the Kariba South Bank Station.   The major thermal
power station is the Hwange power station with four 120 MW and two 220 MW
units. Other thermal power stations at Munyati (120 MW), Harare (135 MW)
and Bulawayo (120 MW) contain many units that have beea in operation for
about 30 years, which are scheduled to be retired in the early 1990s at the
end of their working lives. Presently these units are being used as system
reserve capacity, especially as emergency capacity to cover outages in the
high voltage transmission system from the main generating stations to the
load centers. They are used also during the relatively short periods of
daily peak system demand. The latter duty arises from the need to avoid
substantial consumption of high-cost imported diesel fuel required for
start-up and flame stabilization in the large new units at Hwange. There
are also several small captive power stations (about 64 MW effective
capacity) at mines and sugar estates. Their role in the power system is
almost negligible and some of them have not been operational for many
years.  Hence, the principal sources of power are the Kariba hydropower
complex, Hwange thermal station and imports from Zambia, as shown in Table
2.1.



- 13 -
Table 2.1: POWER SUPPLY IN PY86
Percent
GWh        of Total
Kariba Hydro                    3,291.3         38
Fwange Thermal                  1,863.9         22
Harare Thermal                    148.9          2
Other Thermal                     76.4           1
Imported from Zambia           3,146.1          37
8,526.6        100
2.11       The six 111 MW generating units at Kariba South power station,
which were placed in service between 1959 and 1962, have been highly
reliable until receutly, when it was found that rewinding of the generators
is necessary due to deterioration of the insulation. To date, two units
have been completed, rewinding of the third is underway, a fourth set of
coils is in stock, and an order has been placed for the remaining two
units, all financed from CAPC funds. This work, scheduled to be completed
in 1991, is designed to permit a generator output of 125 MWe  Marz and
McLellan, consultants to ZESA, were appointed to study the potential to
uprate the turbines.  In their report of January 1986, they recommended
that new turbine runners with a higher capacity and greater efficiency be
installed, and that initially CAPC should purchase three new transformers,
sufficient for the raised output of two units.   The consultants also
recommended that modern electronic governors, a new AC excitation system
and new start/stop control equipment be included in the proposed Kariba
South rehabilitation program so as to reduce maintenance costs and to
facilitate operations with the modern control equipment installed in more
recently constructed power generating stations in Zimbabwe and Zambia. The
work to complete this program is included in the proposed project.
2.12        Significant amounts of energy have been imported from Zambia
which currently has surplus generating capacity.  The most recent power
exchange agreement, covering PY85-FY87, provided for firm power transfer of
up to 400 NW to Zimbabwe from Zambia. A new agreement for a lower level of
power transfer is presently under negotiations. Some small power transfers
occur with other neighboring countries for the supply of outlying areas
close to the frontiers. Details of the installed generating capacities in
Zimbabwe are given in Annex 2.1.
2.13          The transmission network in Zimbabwe consists of overhead
transmission lines and substations operated at 330, 132, 88 and 66 kV which
interconnect all the main load centers.  The 330 kV transmission system
(about 2,200 km) has been used as the main network since the Kariba complex
was  commissioned  in  1960.    This  network  is  basically  radial  in
configuration and connects two large and relatively remote generating
stations with many load centers. Details of the transmission network are
given  in Map  IBRD  20119.   Transmission  losses are  generally within
reasonable levels, averaging about 4% of generation, but major faults have
become more frequest during the past few years. Many of the transmission
lines and substations are overloaded due to increasing demand, and ZESA has
had to turn down applications for new connections to these feeders. Some



- 14 -
switching and protection equipment routinely fails to operate. In view of
the delicate configuration and frequent outages, the proposed project
includes a study of transmission network operation and development to terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank (Annex 2.2).  This study would be
financed by Government of Norway, and ZESA agreed at negotiations to review
the study recommendations with the Bank.
2.14       Problems are occurring with adjustments of governors and other
control devices at Kariba which create difficulties for power system
operation.  The coordination of operating practices needs to be improved,
and ZESA needs to improve its understanding of power frequency behavior
caused by major load changes or unplanned outages of generation units.
Priority should be given to reducing transient deviations in scheduled
frequency and to tie-line power interchange. The proposed project includes
a study of power system transient behavior and load-frequency control to be
carried out by engineering consultants to terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank (Annex 2.3).  This study would be financed by Government of
Norway, and ZESA agreed at negotiations to review the study recommendations
with the Bank.
2.15       Distribution network designs generally follow British standards
and practices. Distribution development has been neglected during the past
several years, and a sharp increase in faults in these networks has
occurred because the municipal authorities, who were responsible for them
until FY87, have not provided the necessary funds.  Deterioration in the
operations and maintenance of distribution facilities has also been due to
loss of skilled manpower from uncompetitive employment conditions and to
the lack of foreign exchange for purchase of spare parts and materials.
The condition of equipment in distribution networks has deteriorated to the
point at which severe power supply failures can be expected at any time.
With the take-over of municipal operations, attention to improving and
developing the distribution networks is one of ZESA's priorities.
Access to Service and Rural Electrification
2.16      The public system supplies electricity to about 275,000 customers
in Zimbabwe. Approximately 20% of households are connected to the system.
High-density housing areas are given priority for new connections, followed
by schools, workshops and rural growth points. The dispersion of the rural
population renders rural electrification an expensive and lengthy process.
However, Government's policy is to accelerate rural electrification, and
accordingly it set up in 1985 a Rural Electrification Coordinating
Committee  (RECC).    Since  then,  the rural electrification program has
involved construction of about 750 km annually of 11 kV and 33 kV overhead
transmission lines to supply 72 rural growth points throughout the country,
of which 24 schemes have been completed.   RECC has prepared an expanded
rural electrification program to be included in the Public Sector
Investment Program (PSIP). This program envisages the annual construction
of 2,880 km of overhead lines provided that adequate funds can be secured
(about Z$24 million p.a.). However, the mechanism for financing and cost
recovery for a full-scale program have yet to be established. The rural
electrification program needs to be considered within the framework of the
total energy supply and consumption in the rural areas, taking into account
other energy forms such as woodfuel and coal, and energy marketing and



- 15 -
consumption patterns.  Government, with assistance provided by the Ftderal
Republic of Germany, will carry out a detailed study to establish
priorities   and  mechanisms  for  implementing  an  accelerated  rural
electrification program in Zimbabwe.
Demand Forecast
2.17      The present uncertainty about the future of the major industries
and mines, which presently account for about 60% of total power
consumption, is a significant factor in forecasting future demand for power
in Zimbabwe and thus the timing and nature of new generating capacity.
There was no growth in national consumption between 1981 and ,984 (even a
slight drop in 1983 occurred) in contrast to average annual growth of 9%
from 1971 to 1981.   The forecasts prepared  Ln late 1985 by CAPC and
consultants have projected growth in peak demand (MW) for 1986-1990 of
about 6% p.a. and for energy consumption (GWh) about 5% p.a. The forecasts
up to 1990 are based on detailed estimates provided by the supply entities,
and thereafter the demanO forecast is an extrapolation at an average
predicted growth rate of 3.5% p.a. The mission has updated this forecast
based on later information for actual demand then used in CAPC's forecast,
and has forecast the growth in energy demand to average 3.5% anaually to
FY96. Details of this load demand forecast are given in Annex 2.4.
lnternational Power Trade and System Interconnections
2.18        The power systems of Zimbabwe and Zambia are interconnected
through the Kariba Complex.   Since 1971 Zimbabwe has been importing from
Zambia substantial quantities of electrical energy, especially in the early
1980s taking up to 3,200 GWh p.a. or 42% of total supply.  The existing
contract between Zimbabwe and Zambia expired at the end of FY87, and
negotiations for a new contract are in progress.   ZESA and ZESCO have
maintained an agreement to coordinate planned maintenance schedules and to
provide  emergency  back-up  power.       The  scope  for  negotiations  is
considerable since Zambia has substantial surplus power and energy for
which Zimbabwe is the largest potential customer. According to consultants
to ZESCO (Ekono of Finland) and CAPC's 1985 demand forecast, the firm power
available for export from Zambia is forecast to diminish from about 450 MW
in 1986 to zero around 2000.  In fact, the available surplus for export
from Zambia may be greater since Zambian power demand is closely linked to
the trends in the Zambian copper industry which presently has highly
uncertain prospects for growth. A serious issue for future negotiations on
power trade is the need to agree on a bulk tariff and payment terms that
are acceptable to both Zambia and Zimbabwe. This issue is also likely to
be important for considering any new power developments on the Zambezi
River. Zimbabwe has received substantial consultant advice on options for
contractual arrangements for power imports, notably under the Energy
Pricing Study (para. 1.15) and the Power System Development Plan (para.
2.22). Zambian power could form an important source in the least-cost
program for meeting future Zimbabwean power demand,   Therefore,  it is
important that the role of power imports be given proper consideration in
Zimbabwe's  power  development  program.    The  process  for  updating and
reviewing ZESA's Five-Year Investment Program agreed at negotiations
(para. 2.22) would take into account this consideration,



- 16 -
2.19          The eastern end of Zimbabwe's main grid is connected to
Mozambique's central region system through a 110 kV connection which is
presently used for interchange of back-up capacity. A study by consultants
into upgrading the interconnection to supply up to 30 MW of firm power to
Zimbabwe is being financed by Norway under the Southern African Development
Coordination Conference (SADCC) auspices.  The pobsibility of a much larger
transfer, tentatively up to 100 MW, will also be studied. However, up to
100 MW of power is available only from Mozambique's entitlement to power
(200 MW) from the Cahora Bassa hydroelectric complex (2,075 MW installed
capacity), and thus the feasibility of this option depends on restoration
of peace in Mozambique to ensure the integrity of the relatively long
transmission link from Cahora Bassa to the cross-border supply point.  A
small import of power from the RSA is used to supply an area near the
border with Zimbabwe around Beitbridge. No increase of power import from
RSA is expected.
2.20          Substantial additional power from the existing hydropower
installations could be obtained through the conjunctive operation of the
three major facilities at Kariba and Cahora Bassa on the Zambezi River and
at Kafue Gorge on the Kafue River in Zambia.  According to a preliminary
review by consultants to Electricidade de Mocambique, the additional power
available from the conjunctive use of just the Kariba and Cahora Bassa
faciliLies could be about 600 GWh/year and 125 MW firm power. The only new
market for major power transfers from Cahora Bassa in the foreseeable
future is in Zimbabwe, which would require the construction of a 330 kV
link from Cahora Bassa to Harare over 350 km. This option would have to
compete with existing surplus hydropower capacity in Zambia and possibly,
Zaire as well as new coal-fired capacity in Zimbabwe.   Exploitation of
power potential from the conjunctive u.  of generating facilities would
also require a tripartite agreement between the Governments of Zimbabwe,
Zambia and Mozambique, and possibly the non-Mozambican company which owns
and operates  the  Cahora  hassa complex.    There is a possibility  for
transferring some power from Zaire via Zambia to Zimbabwe, but this would
require highly complex negotiations involving all three countries and
reinforcement of the transmission network between Zaire and Zambia.
2.21       A feasibility study for an interconnection between Zimbabwe and
Botswana was prepared in 1985.   The study,  financed by the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), recommends the construction of a
220-kV transmission link, 340 km long, to connect the power systems of
Zimbabwe and Botswana. An agreement has also been signed between the two
countries and Canada to finance the construction of this line. Since power
systems in Botswana and Zimbabwe use coal-based power stations, and
therefore   their  marginal   costs  are  not  widely   different,   this
interconnection would primarily serve to increase power system reliability
in both countries.   However, the interconnection could also be used to
wheel low-cost Zambian hydropower to Botswana, and agreement on this
between the three countries may be reached soon.
Devel]pment Program
2.2%      ZESA has hired consultants to prepare a Power System Development
Plan up to the year 2000.  The objective of the plan is to recommend a
lettst cost power development program based on indigenous power potential



- 17 -
and power imports.  The consultant's draft final report was presented to
ZESA in mid-1987.   Allowing time for extensive review,  ZESA plans to
finalize the preparation of its Five-Year Power Investment Program, to be
based on the consultants' recommendations, by March 1988 for inclusion in
the national Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP) FY88-92.   During
negotiations, Government agreed that no commitments will be made to any
power investment that costs more than US$50 million until a Five-Year Power
Investment Program for the PSIP FY88-92 that is satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank has been adopted. ZESA also agreed at negotiations
to update annually its Five-Year Power Investment Program, to present for
review by Government and the Bank by March 31 the program covering the
five-year period commencing on the following July 1, and to adopt a
program that is satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.   ZESA also
agreed not to carry out any investment estimated to cost more than US$50
million which is not included in its adopted power investment program,
without prior consultation with the Bank.
2.23        The Power System Development Plan will help to establish key
dates by which decisions should be taken with regard to new investments in
power generating capacity.   Based on the latest demand forecasts (para.
2.17) and the schedule for retiring the old coal-fired stations at Harare,
Bulawayo and Munyati (para. 2.10) by 1990, the next addition of generating
capacity would be required in the early 1990s without taking into account
the availability of surplus power capacity in Zambia. The required timing
for commissioning new generation capacity in Zimbabwe wili also depend on
Government's policy towards the availability of power imports from the
neighbouring countries, particularly Zambia. The economic costs of various
dovelopment programs that Include different levels of power imports are
being evaluated against programs that are based entirely on Zimbabwean
indigenous power resources in the preparation of Power System Development
Plan.
2.24      The options for adding to generation ckpaol.ty-sre rehabilitation
of old thermal plants, extension of the Kariba South hydropower station,
the third stage of the Hwang  thermal power station ani the construction of
a new hydropower complex at Batoka Gorge on the Zambezi River.   ZESA's
consultants,  Marz and McLellan,  estimated  the capital costs of these
options in early 1986 prices, which are quoted below. The rehabilitation
of the largest old thermal generating units at a tentatively estimated cost
of about Z$50 million (US$29.4 million) would restore about 270 MW of
C-eacity to the system.  These units would enhance power supply reliability
since they are located near to the main power consumption centers, and
their primary purpose would be for reserve capacity.   The Kariba South
Extension option would add 300 MW of capacity at a cost of about Z$190
million (US$110 million), but it would not increase the available firm
energy (GWh) from the Kariba complex.   However, the additional capacity
would increase slightly the average amount of secondary energy that could
be utilized (by about 300 GWh/year according to Merz and McLellan),  The
extension to Hwange would add 440 MW of capacity and about 2,750 GWh/year
of energy to the cystem at a cost of about Z$430 million (US$250 million).
The Batoka installations would be 800 MW on each bank. A station of 800 MW
on the south bank with the dam and associated works would cost about
Z$1,500 million (US$880 million), and would require arrangements with
Zambia  on  sharing  the  development  costs  and  power  output.    This



- 18 -
installation would provide about 5,250 GWh/year of firm energy alone and an
additional 700 GWh of firm energy in conjunctive use with the existing
Kariba complex.
2.25      Based on previous development studies, the Government decided in
1984 that Kariba South Extension should be the next major increment of the
new generation capacity.   This authorization will be confirmed if this
option, rather than an alternative such as the Hwange third stage, Is
determined to be the next investment for least-cost development in the
Power System Development Plan.   Since the shortest lead times for the
development options are about five to six years, a decision would have to
be taken soon if the least-cost development plan requires commissioning of
new generating capacity by the early 19909. Therefore, to reduce the lead
timz once a firm commitment is made on the next increment in generating
capacity, ZESA commissioned consultants to carry out the first stage of
engineering work by mid-1987 for the 300 MW extension to the Kariba South
station and for the third stage of Hwange station.
2.26       The mission has outlined an updated investment program for ZESA
for FY88-93 based on broad analysis (Annex 2.5) to determine the least-cost
development program to the year 2000. The program is derived from updated
cost estimates, the mission's demand forecast (para. 2.17) based on the
latest information on demand, and the assumption that Zimbabwe and Zambia
would continue to trade power.  Under the mission's least-cost scenario,
Zimbabwe would not require firm power from Zambia in FY88, but requires
between 150 MW and 200 MW for FY89 to FY91 since new Zimbabwe generating
capacity could not be commissioned by then. However, Ziirbabwe's demand for
energy would not surpass its own production capability until about FY93.
Thnder this scenario, the mission's analysis indicates that the least-cost
program would be to rehabilitate the old thermal stations by 1992 and to
commission the third stage of Hwange by the start of FY95. ZESA would have
to start implementirg these projects during 1989 to meet these target
dates. The possibility that new planning work will show that Zimbabwe has
better alternatives to the Kariba South Extension Project, as indicated by
the mission's conclusions, highlights the critical importance of the Power
System Development Plan for determining the next addition to generating
capacity.  According to the mission's least-cost development program, the
total cost in current price terms of ZESA's investment program for FY88-93,
covering   generation,   transmission,   distribution   and   institutional
strengthening, is estimated by the mission to be Z$1,363 million (US$618
million), of which Z$857 million (US$383 million) or 63% is in foreign
currency (Annex 2.6).
2.27      ZESA's consultants for the Power System Development Plan (para.
2.22) reviewed the operation of the high voltage (330 kV) transmission
network in Zimbabwe under the programs evaluated for developing generating
capacity.     In  particular,  they  checked  the  occurrence  of  network
constraints to delivering power reliably to load centers. The consultants
carried out load flow studies for each of theae programs for forecast load
conditions in reference years between 1987 and 2010. They concluded that
the immediate reinforcement of the triangular transmission network between
Alaska, Warren and Sherwood (Map IBRD 20119) should be given priority so as



- 19 -
to improve the tratnsmission of large amounts of power from the Kariba
complex, including imported Zambian power, to the main load centers in
Zimbabwe.   The first stage should be the construction of a second 330 kV
line between the Alaska and Sherwood sub-stations to provide cover against
unstable conditions throughout the Zimbabwe power system in the event of
lose af service in the existing single line between Alaska and Sherwood.
Tne second line would also improve voltage profiles and reduce power losses
in the transmission netowrk. This justification for the line is applicable
whatever generation development program is adopted, and thus the line is
included in the proposed project.
Experience with Past Lending
2.28      The Bank has been active in recent years in bringing about power
development in Zimbabwe and in dealing with the principal sectoral issues.
The Bank's Power I Project (LN 2212-ZIM, US$105 million) helped to finance
the construction of the Hwange 2 Stage I (2x220 MW) coal-fired power
station, associated transmission works and substantial technical assistance
for setting up national electricity training centers, manpower development
and  the  Energy  Pricing  Study.       The  Project  has  been  completed
satisfactorily  apart  from  a  delay  of  about  six  months.    IFC  has
participated in the financing of the Wankie open-cast coal mining
operations for the supply of coal to the Hwange power station. Previously,
the Bank made several loans for regional power development, consisting of a
loan of US$28 million in 1952 to the Government of Southern Rhodesia for
urban electrification; a loan of US$80 million (LN 145-RN) in 1956 to the
Federal Power Board (LN 392-RN) for the Kariba dam and south bank
hydroelectric station and associated high voltage transmission works in
Zambia and (then) Southern Rhodesia; a loan of US$7.7 million in 1964 to
CAPC for extension of the high voltage transmission system in Zambia; and a
loan of US$40 million (LN 701-ZAM) in 1970 and supplemental loan of US$42
million  (LN 701-ZAM)  in  1974 to assist  the Government of  Zambia  in
financing the construction of the Kariba North Bank power station for which
CAPC acted as implementing agency.   These projects were completed in a
timely fashion and within cost estimates.
2.29          Additionally,  the Bank has provided substantial technical
assistance in the power subsector and the energy sector. An energy sector
assessment was carried out in 1981 under the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy
Sector Assessment Program, and this assessment was updated in 1983 under
ESMAP.   A Power System Loss Reduction Study was prepared in early 1983
under  the  latter  program  which  identified  economica'lly  justified
investments in the distribution system to reduce losses which are
currently about 6% of sales. A power sector matnagement assistance project
under ESMAP is underway to assist Government with the formation of ZESA and
for developing energy planning capability. A Petroleum Fuels Supply Study
has been prepared under an IDA Credit (US$1.2 million, CR 1296-ZIM).  A
Rural Afforestation Credit (US$7.3 million, CR 1368-ZIM) for FY83 is being
used to prepare a pilot project for a national rural afforestation program
which includes a wood energy utilization survey. Numerous other agencies
are also providing technical assistance to Zimbabwe in the energy sector,
notably the European Development Fund and European Investment Bank (EIB)
which funded a Coal Utilization Study prepared in 1983, and a number of
agencies are assisting in manpower development and training, and in



- 20 -
development of renewable energy resources.  In spite of the deterioration
in some areas, such as maintenance and the quality of power supply, the
Bank has made a strong impact on strengthening the organization of the
power subsector and its financial situation.
Role of the Bank
2.30        The role for the Bank in the energy sector in Zimbabwe is
determined in the context of the overall strategy for the Bank's activities
in Zimbabwe, and is aimed at assisting the Government to manage the
restoration of macroeconomic balance and effect the economic restructuring
needed to achieve sustained growth. The strategic elements in the energy
sector are manpower and institutional development, least-cost investment
programs in the regional development context, implementation of sound
energy pricing policies, energy efficiency improvement, establishment of
planning capabilities and preparation of a household energy strategy. In
particular, the Bank is playing a catalytic and constructive role in
promoting institutional development through strengthening of ZESA and the
power subsector organization, improving the manpower situation, assisting
in staff training, establishing development policies and investment
priorities, reforming power tariffs, introducing load management and energy
conservation, and contributing to regional power trade.   The proposed
project would also enable the Bank to assist Governmeut in mobilizing
resources for new power investments, taking advantage of any concessionary
and grant resources.
III, THE BORROWER
Organization and Management
3.01       The borrower for the proposed loan would be ZESA, a Government
parastatal established under the Electricity Act of 1985. ZESA is also the
executing agency for the Power I Project, which includes Hwange Thermal
Power Station, partially financed through Loan 2212-ZIM to ESC, the main
predecessor of ZESA. Details of ZESA's functions and responsibilities are
explained in Chapter 2 (para. 2.03). The present organizational structure
of ZESA is shown in Annex 3.1 by the mission and is considered to be
appropriate.    The main  departments  are  generation  and  transmission,
consumer,  finance, corporate and legal services.   ZESA lacks its own
planning capability and relies on external consultants.   In order to
establish its planning capabilities, ZESA is forming a corporate planning
unit in late 1987 to be directly responsible to the General Manager. In
order to ensure that ZESA carries out efficiently its operations, during
negotiations ZESA agreed to employ at all times qualified and experienced
staff for all senior managerial positions.
3.02      ZESA is carrying out a program to strengthen its management and
improve the decision-making processes.   ZESA has recently appointed the
Deputy General Manager for Finance, w!tich had been for some time the only
unfilled senior management position (para. 3.17).   Managerial training
would be provided under the proposed project through the MIS component.
ZESA is in the process of increasing the delegation of responsibilities to
regional offices and line management.   ZESA also has to finalize the



- 21 -
organization and management structure for regional organizations, complete
job descriptions defining the responsibilities and authorities of each
position, assign selected candidates to management positions and initiate
recruitment for remaining vacant posts.
Amalgamation of Power Entities
3.03        The merging of ESC, the municipal electricity departments and
CAPC's generation and transmission operations into ZESA is complete except
for the legal transfer of CAPC facilities (2.08).   ZESA took over the
functions, facilities and staff of the municipal electricity departments on
July 1, 1987. Minor aspects of the take-over are still being processed.
Billing and collection functions will continue to be performed by the
Harare and Bulawayo municipalities as agents for ZESA until June 30, 1990,
by which time the proposed MIS (para. 3.16) should be in place for ZESA to
transfer these functions to its own computerized systems. ZESA has still
to complete arrangements for the transfer of ownership of the generation,
transmission and system control facilities in Zimbabwe from ZRA in
accordance with the schedule and conditions agreed between Zimbabwean and
Zambian authorities (para. 2.08), although ZESA is in fact operating these
facilities and the staff are now ZESA employees.
Manpower
3.04       ZESA faces a major challenge in integrating six separate power
entities into a single organization. Different administrative systems such
as accounting and personnel have to be fitted together, and diverse staffs
have to be integrated. At the end of 1986, ZESA had 4,325 employees, of
which 1,667 were monthly-paid staff and the remainder were hourly-paid.
The customer/employee ratio is about 60 which compares favorably with other
African countries (eog. Kenya 35, Ethiopia 50).
3.05       Details of manpower by categories and numbers of vacancies for
ZESA are given in Annex 3.2.  Currently, the power subsector suffers from
vacancy levels of up to 50 percent for highly qualified staff. The present
salary structure and conditions of service do not provide the necessary
inducements required to prevent critical losses of skilled and experienced
staff.   As a result of the shortages of such staff,  there has been
postponement of major maintenance work which could lead to costly
breakdowns and destruction of expensive equipment.   A comparative salary
study undertaken in 1984 by ESC indicated that salaries for senior levels
were about 50 percent below comparable levels in the private sector, while
salaries for middle levels were 25 percent below competitive lates. Total
compensation needs to be increased to levels sufficient to retain the
required staff  (para.  3.07).   The integration of CAPC and municipal
electricity departments into ZESA provides an opportunity to review power
sector salaries and to establish equitable and competitive compensation
packages for ZESA staff.   It is particularly important  that the new
compensation packages are maintained at levels that will retain specialist
skilled CAPC staff who are essential for the operation of hydropower
generation and high voltage transmission facilities. During negotiations,
ZESA agreed to ensure to the satisfaction of the Bank that operational
support staff would be available for maintenance and operations throughout
project execution.



- 22 -
3.06         Funds totalling US$13.3 million would be provided under the
proposed project to continue the support provided under the Power I Project
to  ZESA  for managing  and operating  its  facilities.    The support  if
expatriate personnel to fill key positions is essential until local
qualified candidates are fully trained. Under the proposed project, about
60 professionals and 80 artisans would be provided in the first year,
declining to about 30 and 20 respectively in the third year as local staff
become trained under ZESA's manpower development program (para. 3.08) to
take over some of the positions.
3.07      The development of a competitive salary structure will require a
decision by Government to change its policy of putting a cap on ZESA's
salaries, which presently relates them to civil service salaries, once
Government lifts the freeze on wage increases for parastatal organizations
in force until January 1, 1988. In spite of 15% annual inflation, the cap
has not been raised in the last two years. This situation is in contrast
to CAPCO's salaries which have remained competitive. With ZESA taking over
about 370 skilled CAPC staff on October 1, 1987 in accordance with the
transitional arrangements for the reconstitution of CAPC (para. 2.08),
there are substantial differences between the compensation packages for
incoming CAPC staff and compensation packages for ZESA staff in positions
of comparable  skill  and  seniority.    However,  under  the  transitional
arrangements, the compensation packages for CAPC staff are protected. To
rectify the shortcomings in ZESA's existing compensation terms for skilled
staff, it was agreed at negotiations that ZESA would rationalize the
structure and level of compensation packages for all its staff by June 30,
1988.  This would involve the elimination of differences in compensation
packages for comparable positions, and the consequential increases for ZESA
staff will substantially improve the competitiveness of ZESA's terms. ZESA
also agreed to maintain thereafter the appropriate structure and levels
required to retain and attract high level and skilled staff.
Training
3.08      Compared to the situation found by the Power I appraisal mission
(November 1981), there has been a considerable improvement in training in
the power sector.   At that time, the training of apprentices was the
predominant activity. ZESA now has an effective Manpower Development and
Training Department for the entire power subsector.  The Hwange Training
Center is operational; the Bulawayo Training Center started operations in
1986 and the most important, the Harare Training Center, became operational
in 1987. Various courses are run at the Munyati and Harare Power Stations
for  upgrading  semi-skilled workers,  apprentices  and  fitters.    ZESA's
management is strongly committed to training, a high level steering
committee meets regularly, and substantial technical assistance is provided
by Electricite de France (EdF).
3.09      The purpose of the Hwange Training Center is to train staff for
the following jobs: operations shift supervisors, control room operators,
plant operators and boiler operators. The average duration of each course
is six months, which is supplemented with on-the-job training. The center
has been operational since August 1984, and had trained about 60 assistant
plant operators by end 1986.  Some upgrading courses are also given.  The
staff comprises one EdF expert and two French volunteers. Seven ZESA staff



- 23 -
are being trained to become instructors. In addition, British Electricity
International (BRI) is in charge of organizing on-the-job training for
young Zimbabwean engineers, and 85 are under training.
3.10          The Bulawayo Training Center's main purpose is to train
distribution electricians, especially linesmen for overhead and underground
distribution lines, workers for maintenance of transformers, metering and
protective devices, and for maintenance and operation of distribution
networks.   Training  in this center  is given to assistant  craftsmen,
craftsmen, and preapprenticeship trainees.   The center is scheduled to
train about 60 workers per year.   The center took its first batch of
apprentice electricians in April 1986.  Its staff comprises one director
and six instructors (Zimbabwean), and one French volunteer.
3.11        The Harare (National) Training Center, funded mainly under a
protocol   with   France,   provides   the   following   training   courses:
a. Preapprenticeship full-time courses of 12 weeks duration for 300
workers each year.  Candidates are drawn krom ZESA and outside
Zimbabwe.
h. Apprenticeship courses, given within the framework of the
official educational system.   Nearly half of the apprentices
attending the center are trained as technicians, craftsmen, and
assistant craftsmen in distribution networks and power generation
and transmission.
The Harare center will also house a training simulator for steam power
plant operators financed from Loan 2212-ZIM.   ZESA's manpower training
program was found by the mission to be adequate and properly implemented.
The proposed project would continue the support of the donor community for
training activities started under the Power I Project, through the
financing of training instructors, provision of training equipment and
materials, and funding of overseas courses for ZESA staff. Details of this
support are given in Annex 3.3. Additional manpower development would take
place under the proposed project through on-the-job training for ZESA staff
provided by expatriates retained for key skilled positions (para. 3.06).
Accounting and Audits
3.12       Accounts have been maintained efficiently by CAPC who have been
able to retain a small but qualified and experienced staff. The accounts
of the former ESC have not been maintained as efficiently as they have been
in the past as ZESA has lost key personnel and have had difficulty in
keeping up with the increased volume of transactions. CAPC and ESC have
submitted certified financial statements to the Bank in a timely manner for
several years.   The municipalities have maintained adequate accounts,
particularly Harare and Bulawayo, but have maintained them under municipal
cash accounting procedures and have not been required to produce audited
financial statements on a timely basis.
3.13         ZESA has to establish interim accounting practices for the
municipalities in order to make the financial data of the municipalities
comparable with the corresponding data accumulated in the accounts of ZESA



- 24 -
(former ESC) and CAPC. This task requires the conversion of municipal cost
accounting data to commercial accrual accounting data, ZESA established a
team to visit each entity and determine the interim practices needed to
assure ef£ective record keeping *intil permanent practices are installed.
To establish these interim accounting practices, ZESA has been assisted by
consultants provided under the ESMAP program and by representatives of the
International Executive Service Corporation, USA (IESC), financed under the
Bank's Power I Project (LN 2212-ZIM). All entities which make up ZESA have
been audited by external auditing firms in the past. During negotiations,
ZESA's agreement was obtained to have its accounts audited by an external
auditor acceptable to the Bank and to have certified financial statements
for ZESA sent to the Bank within six months following the close of each
fiscal year.
Billing and Collection
3.14       ZESA's collection performance had been satisfactory in the past
with outstanding accounts reflecting about 65-68 days of revenues.
However, in the recent past due to increased volume of transactions
(utilizing manual billing operations), the lose of staff and customer
resistance to tariff increases, this performance has deteriorated.  The
four municipalities have also had difficulty is maintaining effective
billing and collection practices and the sector, collectively, had about
100 days of revenues in outstanding customer accounts at June 30, 1986.
The problems of billing and collection will be addressed on a top priority
basis under the MIS program (para. 3.16).  During negotiations agreement
was obtained that ZESA would report quarterly to the Bank on the status of
the billing and collection efforts as from September 30, 1988, and that
they would establish the following goals for the maximum outstanding value
of customer accounts:
JuAe 30, 1988 - 90 days of revenues
June 30, 1989 - 75 days of revenues
June 30, 1990 and thereafter - 60 days of revenues
Management Information System
3.15        ZESA has engaged consultants utilizing the proceeds of Loan
2212-ZIM to develop the overall plan for a computer-based management
information system 'MIS). A second consultancy would be financed under the
proposed Power II project for the deteiled design and implementation of the
system.   The strategy is to implement initially portions of the system
which are financially oriented,giving priority to accounting functions
which must be improved in order to have an effective accounting system for
ZESA, particularly relating to those areas identified as needing
improvement during the amalgamation of municipal departments.
3.16      In order to implement the MIS, ZESA will have to recruit a small
but highly trained staff for its MIS unit. Virtually no work on the system
can  be  performed  until  this  unit  is  staffed.    Therefore,  during
negotiations, agreement was obtained that ZESt. would ap.oint staff to key
positions as a condition of loan effectiveness, Key staff were identified
as the Manager, Project Adviser, Assistant Manager - Information System and
Assurance, AssistAnt Manager - System Analysis and two of the four Senior



- 25 -
Analysts.   The MIS system would be implemented In identifiable phases
satisfactory to the Bank, and at negotiations ZESA agreed to submit by July
1, 1988 an implementation plan for the Bank's approval with the objective
of implementing this plan by July 1, 1991.
Financial Organization
3.17      The representatives of IESC (para. 3.13) have designed a suitable
financial organization for ZESA bhich has been approved by ZESA's Board.
ZESA has recruited a suitably qualified accountant for the position of
Deputy General Manager, Finance, and it has filled the section head level
positions. This should provide the leadership to reestablish a financial
department which has been decimated in the past by loss of staff and lack
of leaderehip.   This group has to merge the tinancial and accounting
operations of the four municipalities and CAPC with ZESA, develop
accounting procedures which will provide meaningful data for the control
and direction of ZESA's financial performance, and assure the effective
installation of the proposed MIS system.
Insurance and Taxes
3.18        ZESA maintains insurance coverage on all assets, stores and
Inventories and on vehicles as well as for liability to third parties in
accordance with normal practice. in power utilities, including insurance for
boiler explosion in generating stations, The insurance cover is reviewed
periodically to assure continuing adequacy and is satisfactory. ZESA does
not pay income or corporation tax, but it is liable for customs duties on
imported materials and equipment. However, exemption from customs duties
has been granted by Government for the Power I Project and is expected
under the Power II Project with the exception of general purpose vehicles.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a) to improve the efficiency and reliability of power supply through
urgently needed rehabilitation and upgrading of power facilities
that are consistent with the least-cost means for meeting the
growing demand on the power system, by introducing national power
tariffs that are consistent with the economic costs of meeting
demand, and through provision of consultant services to carry out
specific studies aimed at improving system operations;
(b) to enhance development of the power sector by consolidating
efficiently the reorganization of the sector, strengthening its
operations by financing the services of skilled expatriate staff,
and establishing long-term development pol-icy and investment
priorities; and
(c) to strengthen the institutional capability of ZESA through the
establishment of a management information system and efficient



- 26 -
decision-making procedures, the implementation of a manpower
development program and the development of ZESA's in-house
planning capabilities.
Project Description
4.02      The various components of the project are described in detail in
Annex 4.1 and are summarized below.
(a)  Kariba South Hydroelectric Power Station.  The provision of new
turbine runners to increase the output of each of the six generating units
from III MW to 125 MW, and of three 80 MVA single phase power
transformers.   The replacement of some of the obsolete auxiliary and
control equipment to reduce maintenance costs and to improve operating
characteristics. Spare parts and consumable items would also be provided.
(b)   Distribution Networks.   The power supply in selected high
priority areas would be reinforced and supply taken to new areas with hew
distribution lines (total of about 400 km) and substations (about 90 MVA).
In addition, some existing lines would be reconductored (about 185 km) and
spare equipment provided.
(c) Transmission Network. New transmission lines (total of about 520
km) and substations (about 270 MVA) would be constructed to provide a more
reliable service and permit extension of the system to areas presently
without electric power,  The project would also include replacement and
upgrading of parts of the existing transmission system (about 55 km) and
provision of auxiliary equipment.
(d)  Workshops.  The construction of new maintenance and fabrication
facilities, equipped with machine and hand tools, a garage for the
maintenance of the vehicle fleet, and new enlarged stores facilities.
(e)   Vehicles.   The provision of passenger cars (15), trucks of
various capacities (330), motorcycles (40), buses (6), special purpose
vehicles (35) and miscellaneous equipment, together with an adequate supply
(about 3 years) of replacement and spare parts to enable efficient
opevation and maintenance of power system facilities.
(e)  Training,  The provision of instructors to provide training to
both administrative and technical staff, including the supply of training
aids and the provision of funds to cover the costs of overseas training to
selected personnel,
(f)  Power Operations Support.  The provision of funds to cover the
cost of expatriate engineers and technical personnel required to assist
ZESA in the operation of the power system for a three-year period while
intensive training of local personnel is underway.
(g)   Mangement Information System (MIS) and Computer Facilities.
Consultants would be retained to study ZESA's financial functions and to
develop an appropriate management information and control system.   The
project would also include a provision for computer facilities and training
in their use, and technical assistance for implementating the MIS.



- 27 -
(h)  Engineering Services.  Consultants would be retained to assist
ZESA in all phases of the project, i.e. design, procurement, supervision of
construction and erection, inspection of materials and equipment, and the
performance of acceptance tests.
(i) Studies. Consultants would be appointed to carry out studies of
the high voltage trans"ission system development, and of power system
cransient behavior and loi. frequency control.
Project Costs
4.03        The detailed estimate of base costs and the estimated annual
costs including contingencies are given in Annex 4.2.  The total project
cost, excluding interest during implementation, is estimated to be US$188.1
million, of which US$99.0 million (53%) would be in foreign exchange.
4.04       The cost estimates for the major items in the project are based
on recent quotations from manufacturers and suppliers for the equipment and
materials involved, and have been reviewed by ZESA's engineering
consultants (Merz and McLellan, UK). The estimated quantities of materials
and equipment required are given in Annex 4.3.  The base cost estimates
are adjusted to expected mid 1987 price levels.  Altiough ZESA is liable
for custom duties, imported goods and materials procured under the Power II
Project would be exempt from such duties, except for general purpose
vehicles.   Physical contingencies ranging between 5% and 10% have been
added  to the base cost estimates of the project components.    Price
contingencies were applied to the base cost plus physical contingencies in
accordance with projected annual rates (see Table 4.1) appropriate to the
expected economic conditions during the project implementation period. The
project cost estimates are expressed in both Zimbabwe dollars and US
dollars  based  on  anticipated  exchange  rates  during  the  project
implementation period.



- 28 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Foreign
Local    Foreign    Total   Cost as
-(US$ rIItIon)     al    X of
Total
1.  Kariba South Rehabilitation       1.4      14.5       15.9       91
2.  Distribution Networks            23.9      16.5       40.4       41
3.  Transmission Network             20.3      15.9       36.2       44
4.  Workshops and Equipment           6.7       2.1        8.8       24
5.  Vehicles                          4.8       5.7       10.5       54
6.  Manpower and Training             1.4       1.3        2.7       48
7.  Power Operations Support          2.0       7.5        9.5       79
8.  MIS and Facilities                1.8       2.8        4.6       61
9.  Engineering Services              0.5        1.8       2.3       78
10.  Studies                           -         0.9        0.9      100
Base Costs                    62.8      69.0      131.8       52
Contingencies:
Physical                    4.4       4.2       8.6        49
Price  b/                  20.0      25.8      45.8        56
Taxes and Duties                       1.9       -          1.9        0
Total Project Cost                    89.1      99.0      188.1       53
Interest During Implementation        36.0       -         36.0        0
Total Financing Required        125.1      99.0      224.1       44
Year                     1987     1988    1989    1990    1991
a/ Anticipated Exchange Rates
(Z$ U$)                         1.70     1.78    1.87    2.10    2.29
b/ Price Contingencies
Annual Rates (X)
Foreign Cost         12.1      10.0     6.5    -1.7      0.8
Local Cost           11.0      15.0    12.0    10.0    10.0



- 29 -
FinacLng Plan
4.05        The foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated to be
US$99.0 million (53X of the total cost), of which the Bank would finance
US$44.0 million (23% of the total project cost and 441 of the foreign
exchange cost). Local costs would be financed from ZESA's internal cash
resources.   Table 4.2 gives a sumary of the financing plan fot the
proposed project, details of which are given in Annex 4.4.
Table 4.2: SUMMARY OF FINANCING PLAN
Local    Foreign    Total
-  (UST million)
A.  Source
TIT)ZESA's Cash Generation       89.1       -         89.1
(2) IBRD Loan                     -        44.0      44.0
(3) CDC Loan                      -        21.7      21.7
(4) ADB Loan                      -        20.8       20.8
(5) Norwegian Grant               -         5.0        5.0
(5) Dutch Loan-                             7.5        7.5
Total Project Cost        89.1      99.0     188.1
B. Interest during Implementation
ZESA                             36.0       -         36.0
C.  Total Financing Required        125.1      99.0      224.1
4.06      The proposed Bank loan of US$44 million would be made to ZESA for
a term of 20 years, including a five-year grace period on repayments.
CDC's executive board has given clearance for a loan to Z8SA of up to 13
million Pounds Sterling (US$21.7 million) to finance the entire foreign
exchange cost of Kariba South rehabilitation. The loan would be repayable
over 20 years including 5 five years moratorium, at an interest rate of
7.751. The ADB loan to Zimbabwe of US$20.2 million would be repayable over
20 years at 7.331 interest rate and a grace period of 4 years. These funds
would be onlent to ZESA at a 10% interest rate. Norway has expressed its
intention to extend a grant of 35 million Norwegian Kroners (US$5 million)
to Zimbabwe, and Holland will lend to Zimbabwe 15 million Dutch guilders
(US$7.5 million) at 2.51 interest and repayment over 15 years with 7 years
moratorium. ZESA would bear the foreign exchange risk on loan repayments.
No retroactive financing is proposed. The fulfillment of the conditions
for effectiveness for the loan agreements with the cofinanciers would be a
condition of effectiveness for the proposed IBRD Power II Loan.
Status of Preparation
4.07      Feasibility studies and project reports for the rehabilitation of
the Kariba South Hydropower Station and the transmission and distribution
networks have been prepared by engineering consultants (Marz and NcLellan,
UK), expatriate experts (Central Electricity Generating Board, UK) and



- 30 -
ZESA. Requirements for workshops, tools and vehicles have been assessed by
ZESA's operating and engineering staff. The support staff requirements for
the operation of power facilities, particularly the Hwange Steam Power and
the Kariba South Hydropower stations, has been determined by ZESA and CAPC
respectively with their engineering consultants. The manpower development
and training programs were established under the Power I Project, and
provide a solid basis for assessing future ZESA needs.   The project
components are fully defined, their designs and technical specifications
are available, and quantities and cost data are reliably established. The
Bank's preparation and appraisal missions have assisted in firming up the
scope of the project and in sound preparation of its components. Project
preparation is sufficiently advanced to enable start-up to commence
efficiently in 1988 (para. 4.09).
Consulting Services and Operational Support
4.08       ZESA would require the services of engineering consultants for
the execution of the proposed project, in particular to establish work
programs  for  the  various  tasks  to  be  completed,  preparation  of
specifications  and  procurement  documents,  evaluation  of  bids,  and
supervision of implementation.  The estimated total cost of these services
is about US$3.2 million, of which US$2.5 million would be the foreign
exchange cost funded by Norway to cover about 200 manmonths of engineering
services during the three-year project period.   Other consulting firms
would be employed to carry out individual special assignments for the
Kariba South uprating work, training, management information system (MIS),
and for studies on transmission system development and on system transient
behavior and load frequency control.   The total cost of all consulting
services, including engineering, MIS and studies, is estimated at US$10.7
million, of which US$8.0 million is in foreign exchange, to cover the cost
of about 700 manmonths of consulting services.   The average cost of
US$11,400  per manmonth  is  considered  reasonable  for  these  kinds  of
consulting services. The operational support component would include the
services of expatriate technical staff to assist ZESA in the operation of
power facilities in the period FY89-91 (para. 3.06).
Project Implementation
4.09      ZESA and the CAPC staff joining ZESA have substantial experience
in implementing major power projects, such as the Hwange Thermal Power
Station, and in running major power supply operations that involve complex
international  transfers.     No  major  problems  are  expected  in  the
implementation of the project. Many of the project items represent routine
works which could be successfully carried out by ZESA with the assistance
of engineering consultants and suppliers of goods. Technical assistance in
manpower development, management information system, and studies would be
carried  out by  professional  consultants.    The project  implementation
schedule is given in Annex 4.5.
Procurement
4.10      Procurement by parastatals, such as ZESA, is subject to Central
Tender Board (CTB) review, Tenders are invited through CTB, and reviewing
and approval procedures have to conform to Government instructions.



- 31 -
Government's and ZESA's agreement to follow the Bankas procurement
guidelines for Bank-financed components were obtained at negotiations.
Co-financing would be provided in parallel to the Bank's finance, and the
procurement methods to be applied would be acceptable to the Bank.
Contracts for major rehabilitation items, equipment and facilities in the
project which are financed under the proposed Bank loan would be procured
by international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for procurement. The spare parts for the existing facilities to.
be purchased with funds from other financiers are proprietary and
obtainable only from original manufacturers. Thus, it would be necessary
for ZESA to negotiate directly for these items.   For other items the
materials and equipment would be assembled into groups of similar items and
purchased either under the Bank's procurement guidelines for international
competitive bidding for contracts expected to exceed US$500,000, or by
international shopping procedures for items under US$500,000 where several
suppliers would be invited to submit proposals.   Preference to domestic
manufacturers could be given in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. The consultants services for engineering and studies would be
provided according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. Technical
specialists for operation oi power facilities have already been employed
and financed within the previous power project supported by Loan 2212-Z1M.
Services of such specialists are expected to be retained under similar
conditions during the next three years.   A summary of the procurement
methods to be used in the proposed project is given in Table 4.3.  All
contracts estimated to cost over US$500,000 equivalent procured under ICB
and financed by the Bank, which would account for 71% of the Bank loan,
would be subject to prior approval of the bidding and contract documents by
the Bank.
Disbursements
4.11       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed over the
period 1988-1992 to cover (i) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local (ex-factory) cost and 75% of local expenditures of distribution
materials and equipment, passenger cars, trucks in the capacity range of
0.5 to 5 tonnes, motorcycles, front-end loaders, cranes and miscellaneous
transportation equipment and spare parts and computer facilities for the
MIS; (ii) 75% of foreign expenditures for services of Zimbabwe-based
consultants and 100% of foreign expenditures for services of other
consultants; and (iii) 100% of foreign expenditures of training and
technical support for power system operations.  The closing date for the
proposed loan would be December 31, 1992 to allow time for completing the
consulting activities and for payment of retention monies. There is little
experience with disbursements for power rehabilitation projects in
Africa,and the expected loan disbursement schedule (Annex 4.6, in based on
the project implementation program and generally follows the standard
disbursement profile for power projects for Eastern African countries. A
special account in foreign exchange would be opered in a commercial bank
acceptable to IBRD for payments of expenditures in respect of goods and
services required for the implementation of the project. The account would
have an initial deposit of US$1 million and be replenished in accordance
with established  procedures.    Disbursements would  be made against  a
Statement of Expenditure for eligible expenditures under contracts valued
at US$20,000 equivalent or less.   Supporting documentation for these
disbursements would be retained by ZESA and made available for review by



- 32 -
the Bank during project supervision.   The annual audits of the project
accounts would include a separate opinton on the disbursements made under
th4s procedure. All other disbursements would be made against the normal
documentation submitted to the Bank.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT METHODS a/
(US$ million)
Total
Item         ICB         LCB        Services b/    Other c/    N.A. d/  Cost
Kariba South      -          2.0           -           20.5         1.2      23.7
Distribution    24.6        34.8           -             -           -       59.4
(24.6)                                                      (24.6)
Transmission    20.8        27.3 e/        -            1.3          -       49.4
Vbrkshops         -          9.3           -            3.0          -       12.3
Vehicles /       7.4          -            -           8.2           -       15.6
(3.0)                                                       (3.0)
Training          -           -           3.6           -            -        3.6
(1.8)                              (1.8)
Operational       -           -          13.3           -            -       13.3
Support                                (10.6)                              (10.6)
MIS and          5.7          -           0.7           -            -        6.4
Computers      (3.6)                    (0.4)                               (4.0)
Eng. Services     -           -            -           3.2           -        3.2
Studies           -           -            -           1.2           -        1.2
Total       58.5         73.4       17.6          37.4         1.2    188.1
(31.2)                  (12.8)                             (44.0)
a/  Amounts in parentheses are Bank financed.
5' Consulting services procured under Bank guidelines.
c/  Materials and consulting services procured under other co-financiers procedures
or international shopping.
d/  Proprietary spare parts purchased from original suppliers.
i;l Transmission erection by local contractors.
f/ Taxes and duties included in costs of vehicles procured under ICB.



- 33 -
Environmental Aspects
4.12      The project would not have any adverse impact on its environment
because its components consist basically of additions to or rehabilitation
of existing power facilities.   ZESA pays appropriate attention to the
aesthetic appearance of its facilities and their compatibility with the
environment.    Government's policy excludes the use of environmentally
unacceptable substances in power facilities.
Project Risks
4.13         There is little physical risk associated with this project
because there would be a minimum of civil works which may cause cost
increases when unforeseen construction difficulties are encountered. Most
of the work is routine in nature, and similar tasks have already been
carried out successfully by ZESA and its contractors.  The institutional
risks are related to ZESA, which may have difficulty in properly and
efficiently administering project execution.   However, the employment of
competent consultants to assist in the supervision of the project would
minimize this risk. There is also the possibility of a financial risk when
project costs may exceed the estimates    However, the nature of this
project is such that, should this occur, the scope of the work may be
decreased to accommodate the funds available with little detrimental effect
upon the completed portion.  Other risks involve inadequate coordination
between the Government and ZESA on sector issues which may affect sector
efficiency and manpower  constraints,    These risks would be mitigated
through the assistance under ESMAP to strengthen the management of the
sector and to improve coordination among energy related institutions
(para. 1.14), and through the manpower development and training program
under the proposed project including the necessary actions to retain
qualified staff.
Project Monitoring
4.14      The guidelines for monitoring the project's progress are given in
Annex 4.7. The major components to be monitored against target dates are
tendering, contract awards, and construction and erection stages in
rehabilitation of the Kariba South Station and regional distribution
networks. A close monitoring procedure would also be established to ensure
efficient and timely implementation of the management information system,
manpower development, and studies. Particular attention would be given to
the operational support and maintenance components to assure that
maintenance operations are satisfactorily planned and organized. Financial
monitoring would be concentrated on ZESA's financial performance (various
financial ratios), review of tariffs, billing and collection of revenues,
number of staff per connection, and progress in preparing management and
financial reports.   After project completion, ZESA would be required to
prepare and submit to the Bank a completion report on the project.



- 34 -
V. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Consolidation of Accounting Practices
5.01       In the past the power subsector has been fragmented between the
operation of ESC, CAPC and the four municipal electricity departments
(Harare, Bulawayo, Gveru and Nutare).*  ZESA and CAPC have maintained their
accounts on commercial accrual accounting practices while the municipal
departments  have  utilized  municipal  cash  accounting  practices  as
departments of the municipal government. Consequently actual consolidated
operating results of the subsector have been difficult to determine and
have not been produced. Thus it has been impossible to measure accurately
the results of the subsector by utilizing conventional measures such as
Internal contribution to construction or a rate of return.  However, the
actual performance of the power entities during the recent past cannot be
taken as a measure of the normal financial viability of the subsector since
an unusual environment has existed in the sector. The entire subsector was
anticipatiug a revision of the operating responsibility with the emergence
of ZESA and therefore, normal  operations were curtailed.  Construction
programs were severely limited, particularly in the munVipalities, in
anticipation of the assumption of these operations by ZESA and also due to
a continual shortage of foreign exchange.   Operating expenses have also
been less than adequate as a result of restricted maintenance activities
and significant losses of staff due to salary levels limitations and to the
organizational uncertainties created with the establishment of ZESA.
5.02      The protracted process of amalgamation of all power entities into
ZESA has been substantially accomplished with the takeover of the municipal
electricity departments by July 1, 1987 (para. 3.03). Thus the financial
projections appearing in Annexes 5.1-5.4 reflect FY86 actual results of the
separate entities of the sector on a proforma consolidated basis for the
entire subsector.  Projected financial results for FY87 through FY93 have
been based on ZESA as being the power entity for the entire sector.
Past Operations and Present Financial Position
5.03      The operations of the power subsector for FY86 are summarized on
a proforma basis as follows:
ZESAa/ Harare  Bulawayo  Mutare  Gweru   Total
Units Sold (GWh)          5,264    19399        759     125      155  7,702
Average Price/kWh          4e77      5.93      5.27    7.20    6.45   5.10
(Z cents)
-              -Z$ millions
Revenues                    251        83        40       9       10    393
Operating Expenses          221        27         9       1        1    259
(incl. Depreciation)
Net Operating Income         30        56        31       8       9    134
Rate of return (revalued asset basis)                                  9.7Z
a/ Former ESC area.



- 35 -
5.04      The rate of return on a revalued asset base of about 10% (shown
above) is satisfactory.  However, as stated ln paragraph 5.01, this cannot
be taken as an indication of the sector's normal financial viability as
expenses for both maintenance and wages and salaries were significantly
lower than generally acceptable levels for efficient operations.  ZESA's
performance during FY86 showed an operating profit of Z$134 millicA and a
net income of Z$63 million.
5.05      Annex 5.4 details the sectors consolidated financial position on
June 30, 1986. These results are summarized below:
Z$ millions
Assets
Net  Plant In Operation (revalued)                    1,359
Plant Under Construction                                455
Total Fixed Assets                               1,814
Other Assets                                            202
Current Assets                                          187
Total Assets                                    2,203
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                                1,254
Long-term Debt                                          758
Total Invested Capital                          2,012
Current Liabilities                                     191
Total Equity and Liabilities                    2,203
5.06        At June 30, 1986 the subsector's financial position was not
strong with a current ratio of 0.98 and outstanding accounts for
electricity sales equivalent to over 100 days of revenues. The debt-equity
ratio however was 38/62, a satisfactory level. A rapid improvement in the
financial position of ZESA is anticipated during the project period when
more effective billing and collection procedures are initiated as part of
the MIS system (para. 3.16), adequate cash balances are maintained to
support operations in the municipalities, and sales are increased from
greater generation of power at Hwange and the reduction of power imports to
minor le-els.
Tariffs
5.07       ZESA (ESC) increased its  tariffs 'i September 1985 to higher
levels than comparable tariffs based on Il,ng-run marginal costs as
developed  in  the  Energy  Pricing  Study  (para.  1.15).    ESC and  the
municipalities had not revised their tariff base for many years, but they
had applied surcharges which kept their tariffs in line with their costs of
operations. Substantial differences exist in the average costs of power to
main consumer categories between supply areas, as is shown below:



- 36 -
Consumer Category                   ZRSAa/ Harare  Bulawayo  Mutare  Gweru
-(Z cents kWh)
1.  Domestic-Metered                  7.27   7.19      5.50     n.a.    n.a.
2.  Domestic- Load Limited            9.13   5.22     4.84      6.88    n.a.
3.  Commercial-Unde:^ 300 kVA         7.35   7.95      6.37     n.e.    n.a.
4.  Commercial-300 kVA to 5 MVA       6.04   5.33      5.37     n.ea.    n..
5.  Commercial-over 5 MVA             4.93   3.16      5.37     n.a.    n.e.
6.  Special Agreements                3.07    -        -         -
7.  Bulk Supply (ZESA to MEDs)        4.17    -         -        -
Weighted Average excluding
Special Agreements and Bulk Supply   6.09   6.36       5.43     7.79    6.29
a/ Former ESC area.
n.es - data not available.
5.08      The Energy Pricing Study proposed a revision to the structure of
the tariffs in the power sector (para. 1.20), and a structure similar to
that proposal has been developed by ZESA for a uniform national tariff.
The introduction of this new tariff is scheduled for July 1, 1988 i.e. at
the start of FY89. The terms of the agreement for the take-over municipal
electricity operations by ZESA preclude any tariff increase during FY88 to
consumers served under these operations. Furthermore, ZESA is obliged to
reduce its tariff to these consumers in FY88 by 5% to offset a 5% surcharge
on billings imposed by the municipalities as compensation for loss of
revenues that they used to earn from their electricity operations. 3/ New
tariffs for Special Agreements between ZESA and the major power consumers
were initially scheduled to be implemented prior to this date, but the
earliest practicable implementation date is July 1, 1988 mainly because of
limitations imposed by ZESA's budgetary process. During negotiations ZESA
agreed to implement generally a uniform national tariff by July 1, 1988.
ZESA also agreed to conclude new special agreements with the twelve largest
consumers as a condition of loan effectiveness.  These agreements have to
be concluded by end March 1988 in order to allow time to become effective
by July 1, 1988. The mission's estimates of projected revenues for Z8SA
during the project implementation period (para. 5.11) are based on a
preliminary proposal for a new national uniform tariff (Annex 5.2). At the
equivalent FY86 rates, total sector revenues under the new tariff would be
the same level as under the existing tariffs (Z$393 million).
Financial Plan
5.09       A detailed projected funds flow statement for the subsector is
shown in Annex 5.3. A aummary financial plan during the period FY89-92 is
provided below. During this period, ZESA anticipates undertaking a total
construction program of Z$947 million (US$479 million), including interest
3/ In future, the affected municipalities will be able to apply under the
Urban Councils Act of 1985 to the Minister for Local Government, who
must consult the Minister for Energy and Water Resources and
Development, to approve the leveying of a surcharge on charges to
municipal electricity consumers.



- 37 -
during construction of 7$68 million (US$35 million).   About 43% of the
total financial requirements of this construction program, Z$372 million
(US$206 million), is related to the proposed project.
5.10        Internal cash generation would cover the local costs of all
construction  during  the  project  period  including  interest  during
construction, and wouli be equivalent to 48% of the funds required during
this period. To achieve this result, the following tariff increases are
proposed: a 10% increase effective July 1, 1988 with the introduction of
the uniform national tariff, another 10% increase effective July 1, 1989, a
5% increase effActive July 1, 1990, and a 7.5% increase effective July 1,
1991. Based on these assumptions the financial plan would be satisfactory,
and is shown in Table 5.1.
Table 5el: ZESA'S FINANCIAL PLAN FOR THE PERIOD JULY 1, 1988
TO JUNE 30, 1992
Z$      US$       Percent
million  million     of Total
Requirements for Funds
Construction Program
Power II Project                     372     188         37
Generating Stations                  263     133         26
Other  Construction                  244     123         24
Total Construction Costs           879     W42[        87
Interest during construction          68 a/   35          7
Total Construction Program         9-7   479           9
Working  Capital Increase               62      31          6
Tbtal Requirements               1,009     510        100
.m-
Source of Funds
Internal Generation               1,126     569
Less: Debt Service                  643     325
Net Internal Generation           483     244         48
Borrowings
Proposed IBRD Loa.                   87      44          9
Proposed Other Project Financing   110       56         11
Other Loans                         309     156         30
Total Borrowings                506    T256       _5
Grants and Contributions                20       10         2
Total Sources                 1,009     510        100
-          -
a/ Includes Z$36 million of interest during implementation for the Power
II Project.



- 38 -
Future Operations and Financial Performance
5.11        The projected financial situation of ZESA as operator of the
entire power subsector for the FY87-93 period together with notes and
assumptions used in their development are shown in Annexes 5.1-5.5.  The
projections   indicate   that   ZESA's   financial   performance  would   be
satisfactory throughout this period except for FY88.  Electricity sales are
expected to increase at annual rates of over 5% during FY87 and FY88, and
3.8% to 3.5% for the remainder of the period.   ZESA's revenues would
increase at annual rates of 16% in FY89, 14% in FY90, 9% in FY91, 11% in
FY92 and 4X in FY93 at the projected tariff increases (para. 5.10). ZESA
would earn rates of return on a revalued asset base of 7% throughout the
project implementation period.   ZESA's contribution to construction costs
from internal cash generation would exceed 40% of total construction costs
in all years based on the three-year average formula.   ZESA's operating
performance in FY88, despite the anticipated 7% rate of return, would be
marginal with debt service coverage of 0.9 times and a negative internal
contribution to construction. A corrective tariff revision in FY88 is not
feasible (para. 5.08). During negotiations, it was agreed that ZESA would
earn a rate of return on net revalued assets of at least 7%. Agreement was
also reached with Government and ZESA that tariffs would be adjusted so
that ZESA would self-finance annually at least 40% of its total
construction expenditures during the period FY89 to FY93. This measurement
would be based on a three-year average of construction expenditures in the
test, previous and following years.
5.12            ZESA's  projected  debt  service  coverage,  except  for  its
performance in FY88 (0.9 times), is satisfactory with coveragi exceeding
1.5 times in all years FY89 through FY92.   However, to protect ZESA's
financial viability, it was agreed at negotiations that ZESA would not
incur future long-term debt without the Bank's consent, unless net income
before interest and depreciation is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including the debt to be
incurred.
5.13         Key indicators of ZESA's financial performance according to
the FY87-93 projections are as follows:
FY87   FY8   F89   FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93
Rate of Return (%)                14       7      7       7       7      7        5
Contribution to Construction
(X) Annually                 103    NEG      53      61      59    46       18
Three Year Average           n.a.   NEG      71      60      54    42       33
Debt Service Coverage (times)    1.5    0.9    1.5    1.6    1.9    2.1         1.5
Debt-Equity Ratio              32/68  29/71   28/72  27/73  26/74  26/74   29/71
Qxrrent Ratio (times)            1.3    1.5    1.3    1.4    1.5    1.5         1.2
Revaluation of Assets
5.14       During the negotiations for the Power I Project, the Government
agreed to revalue the power sector asaets in order to be able to calculate



- 39 -
realistic depreciation costs, determine accurate debt-equity ratios and
calculate meaningful annual rates of return. Although data were available
from ESC and CAPC, this sector revaluation was never calculated as the four
municipalities were never able to provide the required data and the effort
was not effectively coordinated. The consultants (Coopers and Lybrand, UK)
for the Energy Pricing Study made a preliminary effort at revaluation, and
the results of this effort have been used as a base for the revalued
figures shown in the financial projections (Annexes 5.1-5.4).
5.15      ZESA does not plan to reflect revaluation in its accounts but is
receptive to establishing a memorandum ledger to reflect revaluation data
for use in producing financial statements for presentation to the Bank and
for use in determining earnings requirements.
5.16      In order to produce accounts for ZESA after the amalgamation, an
effort will have to be made to establish the additions to fixed assets by
year of addition. This effort can be performed by the external auditors or
by ZESA staff in a manner acceptable to and reviewed by the auditors.
After this effort is completed, the resulting aged records can be evaluated
by an index acceptable to ZESA and the Bank. During negotiations agreement
was reached that by December 31, 1988 ZESA would revalue the subsector's
assets in accordance with a method acceptable to the Bank, and would
maintain an updated memorandum record subsequently for use in determining
fiAancial performance and compliance with the related financial covenants
of the Loan Agreement with the Bank for the proposed project.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Power System Rehabilitation and Extensions
6.01       The operating performance of the power system in Zimbabwe has
deteriorated due to old and inefficent equipment, inadequate maintenance,
and overloading of existing transmission and distribution facilities.
Power supply interruptions are a regular occurrence, and the situation is
worsening.   On some feeders there is unconnected demand and excessive
losses due to overloading. Therefore, there is an urgent need to catch up
the backlog of maintenance and to rehabilitate existing generating plant
and transmission and distribution networks. Due to the past organizational
structure of the power sector, previous investment planning did not include
adequate budget allowances for transmission and distribution maintenance.
Underbudgeting was aggravated by the lack of foreign exchange for spare
parts and materials. The proposed project covers power system investment
needs in the next three-year time slice (FY89-91) of the sector investment
program, and it is focussed on remedying the system deficiencies identified
above.
6.02        The proposed rehabilitation works and efficiency improvement
measures would complement new construction as part of the least-cost
development option for the power system.   The scope of the project is
comprehensive to ensure that bottlenecks in one part of the system do not
develop and thus impede benefits from investments elsewhere in the system.
New extensions are combined with upgrading and rehabilitation of other
major system components, especially in the transmission and distribution



- 40 -
parts of the power system.  The rehabilitated generating units will have
increased output (about 13% or 84 MW for the Kariba station), extended
plant life and improved capability to match the response of the units to
changes in the demand on the system. Effort is directed in the project to
train and equip maintenance personnel, improve operating systems and revise
design   standards   and   construction   practices   to   support   system
rehabilitation and extension.
Generation Development
6.03          The generation component in the proposed project, namely
rehabilitation and uprating of the existing units in Kariba South Station
(12X of total project base cost), is part of the least-cost system
development program for the development of the power subsector in
Zimbabwe. The mission has demonstrated this conclusion by considering its
identified least-cost long-term development program (para. 2.26) as the
framework for comparing the cost of meeting demand in cases with and
without Kariba uprating (Annex 6.1).   This conclusion remains valid at
discount rates up to 22X, which is well above the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Zimbabwe of 5%. In reviewing the planning criteria, the
mission has prepared a modified demand forecast (para. 2.17) and used
assumptions made in previous planning work by consultants to ZESA, CAPC and
ESC, especially regarding operational practices, hydrological analysis and
system reliability requirements.
Transmission and Distribution Development
6.04        Components of the project cover rehabilitation, upgrading and
extension of the medium-voltage transmission and distribution systems
throughout Zimbabwe ranging from 330 kV and 132 kV lines, 132/33 kV
substations, 33 kV lines and 33/11 kV substations down to 11 kV lines, as
described in Annex 4.1. A least-cost development program for the system at
these voltage levels has not yet been prepared, and funds for this exercise
are included in the project (para. 2.13). Nevertheless, ZESA's consultants
have concluded that the proposed second 330 kV line between Alaska and
Sherwood  is  required  immediately  (para.  2.27).    The  selection  and
justification for the components are based on criteria related to subsystem
development. The capacities of these components have been established to
accommodate 10 to 15 years of anticipated growth in demand on these
components, which is standard for such components of power systems.  The
costs of these components amount to Z$77.5 million base costs, equivalent
to 30% of the equivalent total project cost.   The mission has evaluated
each component by comparing the anticipated average economic cost of power
to be served from it with the average incremental cost of transmission and
distribution for the system as a whole that was derived in the Energy
Pricing Study. Provided that the average economic cost for a component is
lower than the marginal economic cost for transmission and distribution
development for the system as a whole, then the proposed investment in that
component is taken to be among the priorities for system development.
6.05        The average economic cost of medium-voltage transmission and
distribution is estimated in the Energy Pricing Study to be about
Z$33/kW/year in early 1985 price terms at a shadow foreign exchange rate of
Z$2.10/US$.  Thus, the average incremental cost of meeting both existing



- 41 -
and new demand would be equivalent to about Z$47/kW/year in mid-1987 price
terms, the timing for the project base cost estimates.   The mission's
evaluation shows that the components in the project would give a much lower
average incremental cost for meeting demand, generally being less than
Z$10/kW/year (Annex 6.2), and thus these components are justified as
priorities for development.
6.06      The mission's approach to justifying the proposed investments in
low-voltage distribution components (11 kV to 380/225 V) is to demonstrate
that the formulation is cost-effective. The estimated base cost of Z$72.9
million (Annex 4.2) for this component is equivalent to 28% of the total
project cost.  The proposed investment in distribution works covers both
rehabilitation/maintenance backlog and network expansion, in estimated
proportions of roughly two thirds to one third of the total cost of the
component.    The  average  incremental  cost of  low-voltage distribution
development in the system as a whole is estimated in the Energy Pricing
Study to be equivalent to Z$57/kW/year in mud-1987 price terms. Since the
distribution works cover low-voltage connections throughout the system, it
is appropriate to aggregate these works into a single component for
purposes of justification. The expansion component is planned to cater for
about four years of growth in anticipated demand at low voltage, which for
the period FY89 to FY92 is about 74 MW. The estimated average incremental
cost of demand served from the distribution component is about Z$39/kW/year
in 1987 price terms (Annex 6.3).  Thus, the average incremental cost of
demand of the component is about 32% lower than the selected standard,
indicating that this component is cost-effective.
Economic Rate of Return
6.07        The proposed investments in the project are integral to the
overall power system development program. The mission has taken the power
development program between FY88 and FY95 as the suitable period for
evaluating the economic rate of return on power system development based on
the project. The rate of return is the computed discount rate at which the
present value of the capital and incremental operating costs of the
development program equals the present value of the incremental benefits
from the program. Benefits are derived from the value of additional demand
that the system is forecast to serve with expanded system components.
Details of the costs and benefits are described in Annex 6.4. The mission
considers that the average tariff yield for FY87 (5.08 Zf/kWh, equivalent
to 2.7 US¢/kWh) to be a low measure of the economic value of the benefits.
In the mission's view, a conserNative measure of this value in terms of the
average of consumers' willingness-to-pay for electricity in Zimbabwe, is
6.8 Zt/kWh (4 US4/kWh) in 1987 price terms. The estimated rate of return
on the development program to FY96 is 18.0%, which exceeds the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Zimbabwe (about 5%).



- 42 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATIONS
7.01.     During negotiations Government and ZESA agreed to the following:
(a) ZESA to commission the study of high-voltage transmission network
development to terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
to review the study recommendations with the Bank (para. 2.13);
(b) ZESA to commission the study of power system transient behavior
and load frequency control to terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and to review the study recoumendacions with the Bank
(para. 2.14);
(c) Government will not authorize any new power investment that costs
more than US$50 million until a Five-Year Power Investment
Program FY88-92 has been adopted by ZESA that is satisfactory to
the Government and the Bank (para. 2.22);
(d) ZESA to update annually its Five-Year Investment Program, and to
present this program by March 31 of each year to the Government
and the Bank for review, and to adopt a program satisfactory to
the Government and the Bank (para. 2.22);
(e) ZESA not to undertake any new investment that costs more than US$
50 million which is not included in its current adopted Five-Year
Power Investsment Program without prior consultation with the
Bank (para. 2.22);
(f) ZESA to employ at all times qualified and experienced staff for
all senior managerial positions (para. 3.01);
(g) ZESA to ensure to the satisfaction of the Bank that operational
support staff would be available for maintenance and operations
throughout project execution (para. 3.05);
(h) ZESA to rationalize the structure and level of compensation
packages for all its staff by June 30, 1988, and thereafter,
to maintain the appropriate structure and levels required to
retain and attract high level and skilled staff (para. 3.07);
(1) ZESA to have audited financial statements sent to the Bank withln
six months following the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.13);
(j) ZESA to report quarterly to the Bank the status of its billing
and collection as from September 30, 1988, and to establish the
goals for the maximum outstanding value of customer accounts
(para. 3.14);
(k) ZESA to Implement the management information system ln
identifiable phases acceptable to the Bank, and to present by
July 1, 1988 an Implementation plan for the Bank's approval with
the objective of Implementing this plan by July 1, 1991 (para.
3.16);



- 43 -
(1)  ZESA to implement generally a national uniform tariff by July 1,
1988 (para. 5.08);
(m) ZESA to earn a rate of return on net revalued assets of at least
7% (para. 5.11);
(n) ZESA to self-finance annually at least 40X of total construction
expenditure (para. 5.11);
(o) ZESA not to incur future long-term debt without the Bank's
consent, unless net income is at least 1.5 times the maximum debt
service (para. 5.12); and
(p) ZESA to revalue the subsector's assets by December 31, 1988 in
accordance with a method acceptable to the Bank, and to maintain
an updated memorandum record for use in determining financial
performance and compliance with the rate of return covenant
(para. 5.16).
Conditions of Effectiveness
7.02      The  following  actions  by  ZESA  would  be  conditions  of
effectiveness for the Bank's proposed loan:
(a) the appointment of key staff in the MIS unit (para. 3.16);
(b) the fulfillment of the conditions for effectiveness for the
loan agreements with cofinanciers (para. 4.06); and
Cc) the conclusion of new tariff agreements for the twelve
largest power consumers (para. 5.08).
Recommendation
7.03       With the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$44 million to ZESA, guaranteed by Zimbabwe, for a term of 20
years including a five-year grace period.



mO&MM MMAD: US
=---- Ted art                        d t
0q    amt   Bo                    tbr  .It dali                                 UML 1 vUa8m                     1almj
k1m                    4,511   1 ,6e7    m      96         25                      -       -       -      -      -    -   -       6,7    9        86
qata                                            71-  -  -  n2  -                   S     256      74      9    406    1 751   1,463   17         34
ftliny_psgs              -       91    -         -      * -                        -       -        -     1   I        -    2      93     1        2
StodL o4 .                      1- 164   625     -          -                      -       -       -      -      -     -   -      769    9        is
Maui k     in            4.361   1.622   273    1.68         25                      5      296     74      6     400    1  749   AWO    IOD       110
. a_                     ~~~~~                    ~~~~(I )  '                                                                 0
31gtr1c %M amm          -       (ID)  (273)  (1,616)        -      -     2,U8                                   15b        is       o    -        -
_am  _a_s_ -                                                _    (33)       (1,444)                                                      17       36
Ibt  aid , MIT 4.     -                                -     25    75                                    S16                                        1 256  74  8  248   1   SE  =  42   e
S    y  sqm                                         -      - -  -  -  7- -                                                           75
Fa    t _an C           4.561   1.434         -              25      -       5966    5      2       74            246   1         708  IOD        1O
_=D  by btr
lala,                    77    903    -          -          -    -         304     -       -       -      -      30   1    31   1.31S    a       47
Tff4MpWt                -       121    -         -         25    -          -      -      236      S      a      1t6   -   415    SU      a       22
NmaebOl                4,271     44    -         -          -    -          96     5       -       69     -      -    -    74   4,465   612 
Alea1m                  213    m6g    -          -          -     -         a      -       20      -      -      45  -    65    49        7       10
|||adqa                 -        SD    -         -          -    -         105     -                              7   -     7     192    3         7
Gw~~i~cSa1              -       117     -        -          -    -          49     -       -       - -           -    -    -      166    2        6
a/ H)to atd Sqote e.etrtdty to           an cat tami _1mu    bads (4OOD lib - 1 tom).
W   xwsu      Of (1) e1cU IdtY ker MUfrmm,  I Isit to  135 O  in 19M  Way tg *tuIq and _ilatae) a"  34*000 toe Io 1X ard (1) &ad all cad in
now fa_m  dau., amtfmt  to be 13,0  I5n  196.



- 45 -
ZXNBNa                                            A.= 1.2
'POOR U ipffiwz                                        PWT5 2
Z2INAN  PO=R GENW Q AND SUM  F!Y777 (Q)
Yw  Ending Jine 30              1977     1978     1979      1930     1981      192      1983     14    j5           16       17
....      - -    ....         . ....  n. _               .       ....      a... .. . . ..
Dhration by CAPC & ZESAIESC)
Kariba Comlex Entitleant  5000.0   5000.0   5000.0   500.    5M00.0  5000.0   500.0   3574.1   3425.0   3291.3   3022.1
hange Thral StAtion                                                                            35.4   1068.3   163.9   141.9
Old Therml Stations
Iulawayo                    143.1    124.5    149.9    197.4    102.3    141.2    119.1    147.9       75.5      37.3          )
Hirare                      130.9    170.9    146.1    184.?      45.6     87.7      78.7    133.1     76.2    140.9    201.8 )
Nunyati                     103.5    113.5    133.0    151.0      33.7     64.5      833    108.9      66.2      24.0
Other ZESAIESC) Surces         11.9     12.0      9.6      15.0     12.0      14.8     14.8     15.1      11.4     14.3     17.6
Total Ziobabwe Supply         5389.3   5427.9   5430.6   5548.1   5193.4   5308.2   5294.9   4384.5   494.4   5390.5   6404.1
Imports from Zabia            1281.4    952.0   1000.3   1437.5   2320.4   2612.0   2432.4   3183.0   2844.9  3144.1   2215.0
_ ~~~~ ...    . ___._....
Energy Sunt Out to system    4470.7   6379.9   6438.9   7195.6   7514.0   7920.2   7729.5   7567.5   7791.5    524.6   0899.1
Transmswloa Losses             239.2    283.3    291.3    336.3    367.0   380.1    376.5    327.9    349.5    336.4    354.3
------~ _ ....  .._ . .....  ...  ._...._.._
Total Bulk Sales              6431.5   6094.6   4147.4   6849.3   7147.0  7540.1   7353.0  7239.4   7442.0   9190.0   8544.0
Distribution Losses            389.3    376.9'  37.8    394.6    400.4    459.8    446.4    465.1    427.1    483.9          n.&.
Total Retail Sales            6042.2   5719.7   5759.8   6462.7   4746.6   7080.3   6904.4   6754.5   7014.9   7704.1        a.a.
nsu    saUs   ZMAS    =U02u   magm             a        asaIU n  zmms   asa       at 
Retail Sales by Sector
Mining                     1235.9   1237.8   1146.9   1257.1   1301.6   1315.4   1255.5   1193.6   1244.6   1342.5        n.a.
Industry                  3090.3   2730.1   2737.6   3296.1   3478.2   3619.3   3394.5   3398.5   3530.9   3924.3         n.a.
Agriculture                338.0    334.8    405.8    396.8    390.7    518.6    579.2    455.3    466.4    547.5         n.a.
Commrce                    472.6    487.0    497.6    500.7    516.9    535.6    540.8    549.6    569.9    637.5         n.a.
Domesticaetered sales      852.5    825.0    812.7    797.6    841.3    855.9    648.3    991.3    907.9    857.6         n.a.
-load lisiters      52.9    104.9    157.3    214.3    218.0    235.3    266.0    286.1    295.1    376.7         n.a.
iotal Louues(% Energy 1.0.)      9.4     10.S     10.5      10.1     10.2     10.6      10.7     10.7      10.0      9.4     n.a.
11H88ANESPOVER CEIERATION AND DEMAND 1977-1984 (NO)
Year Ending June 30             1977     1978     1979      1980     1981     1982      1903     1984      1985     1986     1987
System Sent Out Nax.Demand      1010      970      988      1044     1132      1177     1187     1155      1195     1319     1342
Transmission Losses               38       34       44        38       48       46        47       53       43        45       47
Coincident  xauimm Dmeand        972      936      944      1026     1084      1131     1140     1102      1152     1274     1295
at Bulk Supply Points
Wax.Sent Out Dmand froms
Zimbabwe sources                       707      736       609      597      669       677      659      738       971     1058
Imported power (non-coincident)
-norual operating conditions      295      260      274       517      506      510       498      420       370      320
-on emergency basis                                                                                529      495       600
Ststn  Load Factor lO           75.4     75.1     74.4      76.9     75.8     76.9      74.3     74.8     74.4      73.8     75.7
Year on Year Changes (1)
Energy Sent Out to System             -4.4      0.9      11.6      4.4      5.4      -2.4     -2.1      3.0       9.4      4.4
System Naxim  Demand                  -4.0      1.9       7.9      6.2      4.0       0.8     -2.7      3.5      10.4      1.7
Note:    Zimbabwe Entitlement from Kariba Complex-to FYl983-5000SNb/year; froaFYI984S502 of actual output.



- 46 -
ZDE2AMB                                         ANNEX 1.2
pWErIIPKXJEC                                          Page 2o
BME   (Rm TK1I AMND PXDU4 DEM=o cm                                           AMi zLi   SYST.D FY77-FY87
Year Ending June 30             1977     1978      1979     1900     1981      1902     I3        1984     195      1986      1987
Generation of Energy 18I1)
Hydroelectric Powr Stations
Kariba South               3916.7   3725.2   3563.5   3743.3   4098.5   3768.3   3884.9   3324.6   3477.4   3128.7   2700.5
Kariba North               2379.2   3109.6   3400.5   3944.7   384.2   3957.5   3993.8   3823.5   3772.6   3453.9   3344.9
Kafue Borgp                463?.4   3926.4   3949.7   4066.6   4722.2   5342.7   5129.8   5097.4   47B5.7   5400.4   5321.9
Victoria Falls              761.1    597.3    561.7    526.0    448.6   05.3    718.6    720.6    656.0    651.8    651.4
Subtotal Nydro           11693.4  11359.5  11475.4  12280.6  13115.5  13653.8  13617.1  1296.1  12691.7  12634.8  12019.5
Thermal Power Stations
Nuange                                                                                       395.5   1069.3   1963.9   3441.8
Bulasayo                    143.1    126.5    149.9    197.4    102.3    141.2    118.1    167.9        75.5     37.3
Harare                      130.8    170.9    146.1    194.7      45.6     97.7      79.7    133.1      76.2    148.9    201.9
Nunyatt                     103.5    119.5    133.0    151.0      33.7     64.5      83.3    108.9    89.2       24.8
Subtotal Thermal           377.4    415.9    429.0    533.1    181.6    293.4    280.1    795.4   1309.2   2074.9   3643.6
Other ZESA(ESCU  Sources        11.9     12.0       9.6     15.0     12.0      14.9     16.8     15.1      11.4     14.3      17.8
Total Energy Sent Out        12082.7  11786.4  11914.0  12929.7  13309.1  13962.0  13914.0  13766.6  14011.3  14724.0  15679.9
of which to-Zimbabwe          6670.7   6379.9   6438.9   7195.6   7514.0   7920.2   7729.5   7567.5   7791.5   8526.6   9899.1
-Z/abia           5412.0   5406.5   5475.1   5643.1   5795.1   6041.8   6194.5   6199.2   6219.8   6204.7   6780.8
' to Zimbabwe       55.2      54.1     54.0     56.0      56.5     56.7     55.6      55.0     55.6     57.9      56.8
of which from-Zimbabwe        5389.3   5427.9   5438.6   5548.1   5193.6   5309.2   5296.9   4384.5   4944.6   5380.5   6684.1
-Zambia         6693.4   6358.5   6475.4   7290.6   8115.5   9653.8   8617.1   9382.2   9066.7   9343.5   9995.8
1 from Zimbabwe    44.6      46.1     45.6     43.2      39.0     38.0     39.1      31.9     35.3     36.5      42.6
Zimbabwe Energy Demand
met from own sources I2)        80.8     85.1     84.5      77 1     69.1      67.0     68.5     57.9      63.5     63.1     75.1
Naxiou Demands on Systems (ON)
Zimbabe                      1010      970      988      1066     1132     1177      1187     1155      1195     1319     1342
Zambia                        773      m        775       785      826      859        83      887      879       906      937
(non-coincident)
Total Coincident Nzax.Des    1748     1716     1753      1844     1946     2017      2044     2022     2036      2215     n.a.
Coincidence Factor ()        90.0     98.2     99.4      99.6     99.4     99.1      99.7     99.0      98.2     99.6     n.a.
Average Coincidence Factor  7)t       98.9
limbabwe Nax.Power Demand                72.9      74.5     75.9     52.7      56.9     57.0     57.1      61.8     73.6     79.8
met froom own surces (Z)



-47- 
A- 2.1
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Installed Generating Capapacity in Zimbabwe
-Istalld Capacty-   UfectiCe
Unit sine       Total   Capacty         s
Tye                   plant Nsa        (W)    NO.   (6)        (m   x  Dt
lHydro                Kariba South  111        6    666        570      32   1959-62
Thbrnl (coal-fired
steam)  f          Martue           7.5-30   8     135       113*4        1946-58
%wnyati        10 -20   7    120          75.2         1947-57
ulaao          15 -30   5      120       96.6          1948-57
1vn g         120        4     480       456           19834-6
H1ag  II      220        2     440      418            1986
Subtotal                 LE    lI
Total                                            I         1,666.2   64
Prvtely Ownd
Thanu              Tring  Ltd.                     45        20
Hippo Valley Etates Ltd.       23        23
Zimbabwm Iron & Steel Co.
Ltd. (ZSOO)                   5.5       3.5
press Ncel Mining Co. Ltd.  8.0            1.8
IOM U_i Smlting Planning
(Pte) Ltd.                   1.5        1.5
*ge Colliery Co., Ltd.          27.0      12o5
110.0     64.3     4
TOM                                                2,071.0   1,793.5  100
-    -. __
s Zimbabwe euxitlemst from Kariba Is 570 M1, ecluding 10X splning rese.
Nameplate       year                         mplate        Year
No.     , N    Commissioned                NO.    ,i               s
Harare Noo 2    1       7.5          1946      Mfnyati     4      20            1953
2       7.5          1947                  5      20            1954
3      10           1952                   6      20            1955
4      10            1953                  7      20            1957
5      20           1954                         TX
6      20            1955
Uoslavayo    1     15            1948
Harare No. 3    1      30            1957                   2      15           1952
2      30            1958                  3      30            1953
135.0                                4      30            1955
5      30           1957
Mbnyati         1      10            1947
2      10            1947
3      20            1950



- 48 -
ANNIX 2.2
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Transmission Network Development Study
Terms of Reference (Draft)
Oblectives
1.        The objective of the study is to prepare a long-term development
program to meet the anticipated transmission network requirements up to the
year 2000. The study should analyze alternative development scenarios and
recommend the least-cost development program supported by relevant
technical, investment, implementation and operation data and procedures.
Scope of the Study
2.           Prepare and analyze alternative layouts of the high voltage
network  in  Zimbabwe  taking  into  account  load  growth  requirements,
development of generation facilities and prospects in international power
system interconnections.   For selected cases In five-year: periods, the
study should determine load flows, voltage conditions, power losses, system
stability requirements, short-circuit levels, protective relaying setting,
insulation coordination, overvoltages and voltage fluctuations, system
operations under normal and emergency conditions.
3.            The study should recommend preliminary designs, technical
solutions,   voltage  levels,   conductor  cross  sections,   interruption
capacities, protection equipment characteristics, earthing methods, bus bar
arrangements and other information whlich would enable preparation of
technical specifications for tender documents.
4.         The study should review the requirements for telecommunication
equipment,  operating  and maintenance vehicles,  construction equipment,
laboratory and testing equipment.
5.            The study should show phased development program for all
transmission network facilities, with quantities involved and detailed cost
estimates in both local and forelgn currencies.
6.        The study should analyze alternative modes of supplying power to
the regions and determine the least-cost solution of the high voltage
transmission  network  development,  together  with  its  implementation
program. The study should also indicate needs in designing, construction
and operation of the transmission network in Zimbabwe.
Reports
7.          An initial report: summarizing the methodology to be used and
availability of data, relevance of individual studies, organization and
schedule of the study work should be submitted within two months following
the contract signing.
8.        A final report showing all work performed and the recommendations
made, including investment program by years, drawings, diagrams, results of
study calculations should be submitted 12 months following the study
starting date*



- 49 -
ANNEK 2.3
Page I of 2
ZNIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Study of Power System Transient Behavior and Load Frequency Control
Terms of Reference (Draft)
Oblectives
1.            The objective of the study is to investigate power system
transient behavior and propose necessary improvements and modification in
designing and operation of the power system facilities. Furthermore, the
study should determine load frequency control requirements for the
Zimbabwean power system taking into account the growth of the system, its
characteristics and power interchange aspects   The study should recommend
necessary investment program designed to improve system behavior and its
operational performances.
Seope of the StudY
2.           The study would analyze power system dynamic and transient
performance, including small perturbation instability, electromagnetic and
electromechanical transients., power frequency variations and power
generation plant dynamics.
3.             The study would investigate the following electromagnetic
transients:
(a) switching surges and their impact on insulation design of power
ilHilitles together with measures for reducing overvoltages;
(b) fault surges caused by single-line to ground and other faults
in the unfaultable phases of the faulted lines and in connected
unfaulted lines and their implication on power system design and
performance;
(c) lightning surges in order to detei-mine the performance of surge
arrestors and other protective devices in the power system;
(d) transient recovery voltage to verify the appropriateness of the
existing circuit breakers and to evaluate a role of new circuit
breakers in the power system; and
(e) Transients in grounding systems to verify measurements in field
tests.
4.        Electromechanical dynamic behavior of the power system should be
studied in respect of the following:



- 50-                         ARMX2. 3
Page 2 of 2
(a) spontaneous oscillations which may occur due to weak transmission
network   capability   and   concentrated   power   generation,
particularly large hydropower plants which may be a contributing
factor;
(b) transient instability which may cause loss of synchronization and
require interconnected systems to split into more subsystem.
This could be one of serious contingencies to cope with in future
power system operation; poorly adjusted governors, when combined
with significant hydro generation (such as in Zimbabwe) and
relatively  weak  transmission  may  cause  these  problems; the
measures  for  preventing  transient  and  small  perturbation
instability should be devised.
(c) power frequency transients, which could result from a sudden
energy mismatch in the power system as a loss of big generating
units, in order to establish operating practices to be applied
during power frequency transients, including procedures related
to load shedding and spinning reserve allocation.
5.        The study should investigate a need for substituting the existing
primary system frequency regulation with an efficient, automatic load
frequency control in the power system of Zimbabwe in order to improve power
system operations and particularly to regulate power generation to
accommodate short-term fluctuations of system demand. These investigations
should also include tie-line power flow control and economic operation of
power system generation units.   Basic parameters of the load frequency
control system should be determined together with technical requirements
which would enable preparation of technical specifications for procurement
and installation of the automatic load frequency control system, if found
Justified.     Particular  attention  should  be  given  to  the  adequate
integration of the automatic load frequency system in the National Control
Center and its role in power transactions with the reighboring power
systems.
Reports
6.           An inception report should be produced 3 months after the
beginning of the study to be followed by a final draft report within 12
months. Quarterly reports should be issued indicating work done and plans
for the completion of the outstanding activities.



- 51 -
Z11113hEl@E                                       IANNEX  2.4
iaD DCaW1  F}OR ZDUAU  IFY87-FY96
Year Ending June 30th           1986     1987      1989     1999      990      1991     1992      1993     1994     1995      1996
Demand for Energy 164h)      (Actual)
Nining                     1362.5   1444.3   1499.1   1556.1   1615.2   1673.4   1733.6   1796.0   1960.7   1927.7   1997.1
Industrial                3924.3   4159.8   4326.2   4499.2   4670.2   4939.3   5012.5   5192.9   5379.9   5573.6   5174.2
Agriculture                 547.5    580.4    600.7    621.7    643.4    666.0    699.3    713.4    739.4    764.2    791.0
Comercial                   631.5    660.4    684.2    708.8    734.4    760.9    789.2    816.6    846.0    876.4    908.0
Domestic-uetered sales      857.6   893.3    999.8    937.1    965.2   M99.2   1026.0   1057.9   1090.6   1124.4   1159.3
-load limiters     376.7    389.9    403.5    417.7    432.3    447.4    463.1    479.3    496.0    513.4    531.4
Total Retail Sales            7706.1   9119.0   9423.5   8740.6   9060.7   9391.0   9712.6  10056.0  10411.6  10779.7  11160.9
System Energy Losses        820.5    589.3    B99.6    922.0    955.0    980.3   1022.8   1058.5   1095.5   1133.9   1173.4
Energy to be Sent Out         9526.6   8976.3   9313.1   9662.6  10015.7  10369.3  10735.5  11114.6  11507.1  11913.5  12334.2
-a.   8s=8         ...    u u8          ns   saua   Kama=   =a=s-          asa     _==::.   SnS
Total Energy LosseslX s.o.)      9.6      9.6       9.6      9.5      9.5       9.5      9.5      9.5       9.5      9.5      9.5
NaxiKum Power Demand (NV)
Coincident Category Demand
Mining                      194.4    203.5    209.8    216.7    224.2    231.8    239.9    248.6    257.5    266.8    276.4
Industrial                  497.8    519.9    536.3    554.3    572.9    592.3    612.9    635.0    657.8    681.5    706.0
Agriculture                 104.2    110.4    114.3    118.3    122.4    126.7    131.1    135.7    140.5    145.4    150.5
Commercial                   91.0     94.2     97.6    101.1    104.8    109.6    112.5    116.5    120.7    125.1    129.6
Domestic-metered sales      195.9    201.7    207.7    214.0    220.4    227.2    234.2    241.5    249.0    256.7    264.7
-load limiters      71.7      74.2     76.8     79.5      92.2     95.1     98.1      91.2     94.4     97.7    101.1
Total Coincident Cat.Detand  1154.8   1203.8   1242.5   1283.9   1327.0   1371.7   1418.9   1469.5   1519.9   1573.1   1628.2
System Power Losses         164.2    156.0    153.3    150.6    147.6    152.5    157.7    163.2    168.8    174.6    180.7
Maximum Demand on System      1319.0   1359.9   1395.8   1434.4   1474.6   1524.2   1576.5   1631.6   1688.7   1747.8   1808.9
g=Iss   g                     Usinas   =s22=   ammn    2sums     sss: ss :===    25:5    s aS=SS
Total Power LossesflJks.o.)    12.5      11.5      11.0     10.5     10.0      10.0     10.0     10.0      10.0     10.0      10.0
Year on Year Changes (M):
Energy Supply to System       9.4      5.3      3.9       3.9      3.7       3.5      3.5      3.5       3.5      3.5      3.5
System Maxioum De&and        10.4      3.1      2.6       2.9      2.0      3.4       3.4      3.5       3.5      3.5      3.5
System Load Factor 4?)          73.9     75.4      76.2     76.9     77.5      77.7     77.7     77.9      71.9     77.8      77.8
Retail Energy Sales by Old Bulk Supply Areas 19Mb)
Year Ending June 30th           1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991     1992     1993      1994     1995      1996
ZESA(ESC)          5262.0   5566.2   5790.6   6003.2   6227.6   6450.4   6691.1   6920.0   7167.5   7423.9   7689.4
Harare             1401.1   1463.2   1515.2   1569.1   1623.7   1679.4   1737.0   1796.6   1859.2   1922.0   1987.9
Bulawayo            762.2    794.2    922.4    951.6   981.3    911.6    943.0    975.5   1009.1   1043.9   1079.9
6Beru               155.9    163.0    169.0    175.2    181.5    197.9    194.4    201.2    208.3    215.6    223.1
Hutare              125.1    131.5    136.4    141.5    146.7    151.0    157.2    162.7    169.4    174.3    190.5
Total              7706.1   9119.0   8423.5   9740.6   9060.7   9381.0   9712.6  10056.0  10411.6  10779.7  11160.9



- 52 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 9
ZIMABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Power System Development Programs for Zimbabwe
1. Sources of Planning Information
The mission evaluated various development programs for meeting
the mission's forecast demand on the Zimbabwe power system (Annex 2.4) to
identify the least-cost power development program. The main components are
selected from previous planning work, notably the 1984 Update of Power
Development Plan by Merz and McLellan with Gibb, the Energy Pricing Study
of January 1986 by a consortium led by Coopers & Lybrand, and the Report on
Uprating of Plant and Equipment at Kariba South Power Station of January
1986 by Mers and McLellan.
Updated capital costs to January 1986 prices for projects located
in Zimbabwe, namely Kariba South Extension, Hwange Stage 3, Batoka and
Mupata dams and hydroelectric stations, were provided to ZESA by Merz and
McLellan.   Rates for O&M costs and for the disbursement profiles for
construction costs used in the mission's evaluation were based largely on
Merz and McLellan's reports.
The projected availability of power for export from Zambia is
based on CAPC's data on production capability and demand for 1986, and the
forecast growth rate in demand (2.9% per year) given in the report "Power
System Master Plan for Zambia 1984-2004" of May 1985 by EKONO.   It is
assumed that Zimbabwe will limit imports in its development plans for power
to less than its planned system reserve capacity.  Imports of power are
planned on the basis of trade between independent power entities, rather
than a transfer of power between two parts of an integrated system which
was the approach used in past planning work as as reflection of CAPC's role
at that time.
Based on the 1984 Update of Power Development Plan, it is assumed
that the old thermal stations would be retired completely by FY93 if they
are not rehabilitated. The benefits from rehabilitation up to FY93 are the
incremental increases from projected derated levels up to the restored
rated levels.
2. Economic Cost
The evaluation of costs of meeting demand under various
development programs is based on economic costs derived from financial
costs in January 1986 price terms. A 30% foreign exchange premium is added
to foreign costs, to give a shadow exchange rate of Z$2.08/US$ (the then
official rate was Z$1.60/US$).   The projected cost of imported power is
taken to be the 1986 tariff for power from Zambia. The economic cost of
power station coal from the Bwange opencast mine for the Hwange power
station is based on the estimates derived in the Energy Pricing Study. The
financial and economic costs in January 1986 prices for the leading options
are summarized below (Zimbabwean import duties and taxes are excluded).



- 53 -                     ANNEX 2.5
Page 2 of 9
--Capital Costs--
Financial Cost Economic Cost
(Z$ million)   (Z$ million)
Kariba South Extension (2x150 MW)                      191            237
Uwange Stage 3 (2x220 MW)                              432            523
Rehab. of Old Thermal Stations (about 270 MW)           49            60
Kariba South Uprating (+84 MW)                          25.3 a/        29.9
Batoka Gorge (Dam + South Bank Station)
- First Stage 2x200 MW                             1,305          1,559
- Second Stage 2x200 MW                              155            188
ji  Base cost estimated in mid 1987 prices and deflated to early 1986 prices
(Annex 4.2).
3. Economic Costs of Coal-fired Energy
In January 1986 prices at _$2.08/US$.
Ewange Power Station coal is divided into two economic categories:
-  Surplus coal that is produced as a by-product of coking coal
from the opencast mine, and thus has a very low economic cost.
-  Joint-product  coal that is produced in addition to surplus
power station coal for which total extraction costs for the mine
are allocated jointly with coking coal.
The old thermal stations use coking coal, and the costs include rail
transport to the power station.
Economic   Specific    Specific    Non-Fuel      Total
Cost       Coal        Fuel        Variable      Energy
of Coal    Consump.   Cost          Costs        Cost
(Z$/t)     (t/MWh)                  (Z$/MWh)
Bwange Power Station:
- surplus coal          0.55        0.45         0.25        0.87         1.12
- joint-product coal   12.20        0.45         5.48        0.90         6.38
Old Thermal Stations
-coking coal (av.)     26.64        0.60        16.00        3.26        19.26
The cost of energy from Hwange surplus power coal is extremely low, whereas
the cost of energy from the old thermal stations is relatively high.
Forecast production of Hwange surplus coal at Wankie Colliery is
based on a minimum production ratio of 0.60 for power coal to coking coal.
Demand for coking coal is according to the forecast given in the Energy
Pricing Study.   The energy that could be generated from Uwange Station,
subject to installation of sufficient generating capacity, from the forecast
production of surplus coal is projected as follows (GWh):
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992      1995     2000
2793    3217    3250    3343    3452    3637      5522     6791



- 54 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 3 of 9
Additional demand for energy from the Hwange Station would have to
be genereted from joint-product coal at substantially higher economic cost
(about 5.7 times according to the above rates).
The low capital costs for rehabilitation and the high costs of
energy from the old thermal stations, together with their ages and locations
near the main load centers, render these stations suitable primarily as system
reserve capacity.
4. Allocation of Costs for International Hydropower Projects
For the evaluation, It is assumed that Zimbabwe would be entitled
to the total output from new hydrogenerating capacity installed on the south
bank of the Zambexi river.  For development at nmw sites, Batoka and Mupata
Gorges, it is assumed that Zimbabwe would have to bear the full costs of new
joint facilities with Zambia, especially dams, until Zambia is ready to
contribute later its share of the costs in line with its own power development
timetable.
5. Comparison of Development Programs
Projections of power and energy balances together with the capital
and operating costs in economic terms, are given in this Annex for four
programs. These programs were determined to have the lowest costs for meeting
projected demand to the year 2000 from the range evaluated, as computed from
the present value of the projected total costs discounted at the estimated
opportunity cost of capital of 5Z.  Sensitivity analysis at 82 was carried
out. The period for discounting costs is extended by 15 years to the year
2015 at the level of demand and costs in the year 2000.
Development Program
1         2         5         6
Kariba South Uprating                          1992     1992      1992     1992
Imports from Zabia l/               1992      185 MS   185 MW     0         0
1993       10 MW     0       66 MW    65 MW
1994      105 MW     0      133 MW   135 MW
1995        0       55 MW     0        0
1996        0        0        0       35 MW
Rehabilitate Old Thermal Stations               -        -       1992     1992
Kariba South Extension (300 MW)               1993     1996        -      1995
Hwange Stage 3 (440 MW)                       1995     1993      1995     1998
NPV Total Costs (Z$ million) Q 5X             1013     1034      929      1002
NPV Total Costs (Z$ million) e 8%              782      804      691       750
a/  All the cases incorporate the following new imports from   Zambia for
earlier years:   1987/1988 - zero; 1989 - 150 MW; 1990 - 215 MW; 1991 -
165 MW.
The justification for including the uprating of Kariba South Station (by 84
MW), which is part of the project, is given In Annex 6.1.



ANNEX 2.5
Page 4 of 9
The development of a major generating hydroelectric facility at a
new site on the Zambezi, i.e. at Batoka or Mtupata Gorges, in addition to
involving much higher capital costs than for the other options, also involves
the risks of unavoidable substantial power shortages in the mid 1990s which
cannot be met fully from surplus available Zambian generating capacity. Both
developments would take about ten years to complete from the time of
commitment so that the earliest in-service date is 1997.  At the mission's
projected growth of Zimbabwean demand (3.5X/year), and if the Kariba South
Extension project (300 MW) is implemented in the early 1990s, there would be a
shortfall of between 50 and 100 MW in capacity available, including imported
Zambian power, to meet the projected Zimbabwean demand in 1996. The shortfall
would be much greater in 1997 if the actual in-service date for the new
facility is later. There is also the risk of substantially gre-ater shortfalls
If Zimbabwean demand increases at a higher rate.  In view of the long lead
times for these projects, Zimbabwe would need to be able to arrange cover for
these risks.
Based on the assumptions described earlier, Program 5 (rehabilitate
old thermal stations followed by Hwange Stage 3) would be the least-cost
development program to meet the mission's forecast demand to the year 2000.
This conclusions holds under sensitivity analysis over the normal range of
variation in costs (+20%).
The analysis shows that (i) rehabilitation of old thermal stations
and extending Kariba South Station are direct alternatives, since both
contribute new capacity but little energy at relatively low capital costs;
(1i) Zimbabwe needs to make a commitment in FY89 to major investment in
generating capacity by specifically incorporating the potential for importing
poer in its development programming, while retaining strategic security of
supply by limiting imports, to less than its own system reserve capacity.



- 56 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 5 of 9
_TIE F mFRITI.L tMD 11D99M1O111 ITO                     DE t   131MM       LO FORMtT CAS             2
ee EWdinga 1h th                196       1M       1        19        199      19        1        1         1        19"   139    1        7     3M        199      200
eilm  Dlnnd a   yspe            1319      13       1196      144      1475      1524     176      1632      168      14          0      1        t         25       2A7
itiXqng   city Available to Zibame
ydr  Kariba  61                  W         63       611      522       52       63        63       63       63         3       63        63       613       611      63
Thorual.bmp stop l               342       456      416      456       456      43        46       456       45       416      4         456      456       456      416
ang  Sae 2-1                     418       410      418      418       419      419       416      419       419      418       416      416      418      418
*i matiu                213      213       190      12        133       06       66        29        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
XaW  hilstiln  CapcitY          3118      1720       9      1m5       152      153       153      1         1507     1507      1507     1507     1507      107      10
"a       ryewired                237       245      251      2         265      274       264      294       304      315       326      337      349       3        374
FiTe Capaity Available
free Exising Ulit                951      1475     1446     120       126      1319      1309     1242      1203     1192      1181      17l    11g       1146     113
Fire  em   Available fre
?ambia  usting co*ct)            350      300
emnd that co  be uplied
bliably 4 Existing Capac.    1101          771    146       120      1264     1319      1309     1242      1203     1192      111      1170     1158      1146     111
urplsdltf ll Relaiv
t  Foreu t Boleie   ean          -18      415        50     -145      -211     -206      -267     -39       -4       -555     -6        -702     -779      -        -92
11 Kaiba    apwaty redd   by o   nit during pwriod of railitationtvltkout  et lee  of hydre-eergy.
eand for Eng  in liii.,
Sytem Engy b dRe mi t           652       8976       13     96       10016   0t369    10735       1115    1507    11913    1213        1277     13221    336U      14171
Existing d g  balable to Uinbe
Nowdres   lbiha                 4900      400      49   0040          4to      4900      4900     40        40       40       40        400      400       4O       4900
lmlm  l bansta1                 250          0 30   3900  3000 3               3000  300   30003 00                  300 0300    3t00  3t00  3000  300
ban    Stop 2-I        2290     20        2710     25       2         2        25        25       27        27       2750     2750      2750     2750      2750
O Stti                 3 1400   1400    1250   1000          970       560      5o0       3O         o         o        o        o         o        o         O
vags Enwgy    ilable
from Eisti   Units             10890    1130    13900    116         11520    11210    11210    30540    10680    1080    10180    10000    106 I50    10680
Fire E g   ailale fr
Zambia Ilta        Contract     3066     2600
tal Fir  Ergy Available   13906    13900    10             II3       11520    11210    11210    10640    10650    10680    1050    1t0O         10480    3060      10650
o         opl rtfl Relative to
Foecat Spit  Ruirrn             537       4924     2597     1W        1504      Ptl       475     -275      -157    -1263    -1684    -2120    -2511    -30s8    -3521
am   as   am   am   am.  am.a    -                                            a"  am   a.   am   am   am   am
UntmuN ti  eomd ocwr  in Iylje    for a FIncial  ear
Ridt  Enry AvdlabIlity is ba d  rad  aerwe  nergy cability.
1ruwa   Ew         Availability is bad a  sqoivalont plant in svice aparating at 7M  au    capaity facto.
e b        or  reqremnt Is estitd  t I  of maim  dema   i.e. ause  that  ieds  and leis contine to ceerdinate systm rerve
Posible kWtst to Retom            to 50up 1) are at iclde  is th  projectieo.
FPJojcte  dmad grti rats for 1 -2000 ar  the averge  r s for 3 -                  .



-  l -    325 N   163    U UN
la  EMb   nw 136               56             U      W     391 i! 54             94     I      W     N             NW    3m           w      Ew (wieo 1 f
1hiwtft iro Exidbq F'Uitte _lalle to Ijb laiME  SUK                                                                                                     2
am tm._ m s.e)                  45     U    -15   -21   -201   -25   -59   -416   -1 -3    -702   -W    -W    -962
EUW i.e.)                       m     w      gw     am      oi     s    -m       W     s3  -UN   -uW   -WI    3    -301              Sem- , _m               2.B
l_Na I        swime bib frd               SUI-sile2K im  Es bul 26234K                                      NW           4iwt twiff sidoe am
so kW et  hu  bie irm o   Wbhq to m                            IM      p 2-p                   t                       twiN to  B  taif
law Ei  Im  38t                55n I                 n W   on    52       41    99    9       19    54    no        9     3m                  -Emu nwp    La.
ma bPmity 4111.e                                                                                                                      aim liid    rbtieo o
WS nl-ratio to tm cm   1.00
[was i    rS                     *11 0      0      0  a      0     a       S     U      ISI    so    es       of     U      g
so Iqeta f. IoaiS                             5      25    u Ml            so 3   s 6    0                                                 3mft  Ialtiult7 Cat.,
_m #a    2                                                                              4      43    43    4           4531 4f onedb   m                      .o
an Iqub  sU                                                                                                          0     t3        -m Kw 2-2               SAO
----   -           ld DlmmsMilit*ioe LW
(wpIu m                         41     SD    SD       4      1      2      5      3    m2      V4    mS       3      3 t
ma X      cawpu ty WA i.e.)
w la eWorw                       0   * O              0   a   a   a 8                   a   a   *
mas k# ab misoi&                        0   5314           on34    am     U      95      0
_ ho sm  tmwk                                                                   30     m      m      m      m      m      J
_ip Nap 2-2                                                                            24 W4    21          IS    21
W *}~                    O         O          * O       O      O   *      *      *      *      *      *           1 W 
tbi.M     al 3m                                     m,   ,s   u   21             a       a   am    ma    m          u
tui  bba,m  4i q bait Di_  1|                        tmll  captl Jt 3. lbi idla i ait ai
14 19     I US  I  w           OW    1N1    %5      MU    M       MU   1 NW    SN      Ni l   594I   OM    N      NW    3m
a"  atwp Mate Ew
-(wtIl SQjd                  49    490   49W    4S3                               9       S                3 3  9       m
-am   I=piw ms)              2S       17   32M    SW1 34        AV    4915   54       S     670   71?   I5N      17   4m1    n   Yal TS     to b I5ba0llb1w        S*
-apb                            0      0    3334   12   546    115       a     95       0      O      0      0    US    95                            -  -
-ap o"  pl cmal              53    119    nI         0     B     43    915    2      IN$  2R              3m       6    323   l 1w5W w-am                        3.
11d lmN tim                     0             S      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      S      0      0        Om      PW IS-25 ut2N  lSwds       2130
Caita & 0W C.ab IaZlliaml                                                                                                     T"   tu    al                        7111.48
-bras bm"  M   i.            LO   2.6   ".IS 13.41   LIP   5.5    23.6   2.36   LI    1.13   I.0    3.B   LIS  L31
-mp Itp 2-2                  0O.   LO    0.0  L0.   2.134   I.   5.L5  13L.2  417    6.b   6.3    L6.             .1   LS
-__t bwJ i.S.wp              US    0.    11.16  24.60   1I6  216    1.4  12.0    0.0   0.0    0.D   0.    6.5   362
tm* 3sm  IidW  t) VneJ ta Ti  CRs tD aWISMIDOUW   LO
amp                           1.1 - .37  4.12  IS3 1.2  7.24 11.35 174  3   9.43 1   10.92 9. I5.0 -                                                               - !! !
-_aeb                        0.0   0.0 L      3   4US 3C    3?   4.3    0.22   2.33   LO0   L.0    0.    0M0  0C.9    LN UriaIlJ-20k                             1 n U
ad TAurel Natiem             0.0    L0    US    L0    L.    0.L .0   L0 0                0 .0 .0   0.0    OD 0A.0    .D go-ad wfid 20-20150t t05 lawls            .21.
total (ails liSlu              5.131.0  10.94  91.1  30.9   14.6  23.0  11.41  10.3   36.   59.   20f.411 52    433 Totl Uwt Yale                                 1032.2  01ai
.  A...  ..in- -                                                                                                                            -  O-
talba SW fmath t     ad no iqet &  hlad far 101-5 am tat to be   oto all  Cam
sima Lawto,E     le uow   (dhw _,1pas" idlt w MM E ...bi Eatw,to ib te a apwimt Ear eawhil PWOMa



VI_K "= m  In ii                M M 211   P sl U 20
VoW  fsiq 3m  30t                    55       16      195     1990     199     199      t993    199     195      1 1      991    149      39W     300          twamtomi IV, ImIstlt   taow
sium t~eu  r  s                   f     tatu   t J1 o st1 ts    eu1                                                                *b                          ism   nT  CE            2e w  _
Swooftrtfl tfm  adsUting  fzdiitUz b1aiv  o *               b    m w                                                U                                                f 'l 9E CM
aidms hau  (1 1.o1.                   Us       30    -14      -VI      -20     -216    .-3S     -456    -         43     -02    -7     4S          943
E"p     16s.1                        492      2117  S1         501       41i    4       -5       -7    -f23    -iK    -22    -257    -usIS    -121              me" bxh_p #atmZSIt    2.0L
1P"  2            wbia sbul   waU t19 M-1                                                   b%M  Sao 2-2                          t93                             t   lWlflsatto ofeso
-               15. 1O w" froom take froo 512W    to tm                                      Wiba tolb Masdi  29t111              199                          tariff t1Ila tw iff
t5 fIrs gm                                                                                                              -a 4w       p a."
low  edlq a" no                      13       116     £1       £9      5991                 1992    2I973    19  l99    m1        *9%3    SW99    200                      -Ewr? Chwe        1.o
NW tc it, go.                                                                                                                                                   mini   lreictie tatto of
WS  oa-raio to Ss Cm    L.*
Iwuib& utb,0atils                       0       0        0       0       4       Is       64      00      84       64      94   U           54      KI
be N    t gfrm lia                      0       0      150     2 11     16      to         0       0   e            0       *        *       *       0          t°pWd st  SativityFars,
anrk looth Mmi.t.o                                                                                                30      306      3       J0 300   300
_66g step 2-2                                                                            416     416    ItS       46      4        41u     418      s1o         (uiba S t EWatauo            1.00
r. Sqort. (0,                                                                                                                               60    t1       _     1Wm,1 stop 2-2              Lobt
-       -            -OIU 41E1MIrss,   iIIitat     .0
fvulssibortf.l1                       415      so        S       4        1 5113                  16       2      14      to       2S        S       0
lw lump C.ahilitty (3 Sa.o
rIev uprtt4 tUriq                       9       0        0       0       44     U         U       U       U         *      U        U       U        O
No lIa  ts fros,Zamba                           0    £1        19      1445    11          0       0     452        0       0        0      O        0
Kariba South tatauluNO 300                                                                                                    300          300    S U
AM" Dap 2-2                                                                             246    27        2746    27      246    276       274l    274
bet wtu th)                             0        0       0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0       .0       0     316      U
$"Inlow"all  ;w-                  n-30  ;-w   ;-w                    ;-w                      5-0~~~~~-                                                                     u
UIwpuJSktf all                        924    26       331      USB mo3         2163     250    1977       W      51       1014     56    ao         472                                                          c
Ic        ts of bdtlq PnrujutuW  2*1bow   bUm                      (aaCluiiata           04 COSt of _m  tt., cAPaitdi
low sta m  30t                       lo       116    119      199      19      19       1993     t       19s    VAL    199        1        9
sen          Supireaot ml            67      9313       U    £16   NO           0      ll5e    IIJ      11      123W   1U7       132              14175
Eur  aluwae s (0)
-Smribe NV"*o                      490      46      490     4        494     49       4       40      41       35      51        -      US 
_baqalurpl, cod$                   29       21      11      333    35        3s1      425    1146    SW2    6R5        71       in      1        a1 b      t Ial "ha  cat lb I(t(tIIU M            6.00
-110or1                               0       0    134    177        1441    202         0       0      495       0       0        0     1V6      gm-
lop  ljslat prct ue)               t23      1196     199       0       S      4        29     17       922      m       so       U        a      1222 1W  S1 -0                                    n.
-at sme 1 tlms                        0       0        0       0        *       0        0       0       0        0       0        S                O RO   twtd    -2011a 25551nws1                  33.
Capital I 51 cash  wt, 7511m                                                                                                                             otad Fta   wae                            33.3
b     t bu l Me                   0.00   L00        .0"     0      26.0S   33    4.         6.5   15.13S    L0         1.16    1.16     13    1.56                                               -
_hgstop 2-2                        0.00    0.00   2.1        14   13.95   11.U          I?    6       636    L.36    L36    L           36    9.3
-lqvt IsAMM.1rp                    0.00    LO      17.16   2460   3L6        21.U     0.0    000    6.29    0.0e    9.0         0.00    6.c    16.02
bur M ush 4il1hd                                                                                                                                       h_t van tta  cob st to1(1utlUlt    1o
-111 0110                                ' 53I?      .2    37        7.23    7.24   1L76    54.4U    526    9.43   1.9   50.2    9*    166                                                        *-          !B 
41Irt                              LOaOs     0      00       00    00    0.0          0.0     0.00      .2     0.00    OA       0.00    0.00    Lie .J        I otW3f Ia  ti .
II      d1                         e.et    seo    *ee    o.e Cee    oee    eeo C     C    o .eo        .oe    .se    ILOe    0.0        ee0    0o * e ot iw                  t2eZMtt              2r2 I"d  W-
tow  bot (l1ll                       146   11M1 11.3    15.   2.              2.5   24.         6.    64        10.62   19.74   SB 26.l5 4.3   t                        abst  a                    1
WEwIe *A__ -r--q          - do      s Its f tulle fo 1542 ae tots  In am              oidi  am.
*NWb IqtoppWro tule uAfw 0111106110wwekm   MMI  Ma   110 a 0loui fua,tsb ame IS cmm  ophiot fan uwiusll  IasI



E I 91111 VS II ZIE 2_R MD DMn 2O0
1w  bmding am  30th                     1            19   939    2990     199     1 2        1993    1994  19 9          11     199      19       19 9 9M   230          Parctus for EVult  cam
Swpluslhrtfall frau kisting Facilitin bltiw  to System aqniraamsts                                                                        *                             LUt tl         CUE       2
bAim  Demad 3  S.0.)                    415       50    -145    -211    -206    -267            9     -4      -555    -423           -72   79    -m          2
ErY (t 1611h.                          4924    217       1907    15s        3I4    475    -275    -857    -1323    -163     -2120    -MI          3083   -8321      5      ad.  achaw  IatsslS          2.08
P_4 S            Clwib. SoAh lpr.tigtla)             1991991                                      Rebabilitate old T1aa    tait          I992                             qtrt luiff:tutio of a
ha Inwts from Iqarba * ira I;3ep to a=iD                                        I_  Stogs 2-2                          1995                            triff to l199  turiff
itU02 fire ergy                                                                                                                -hwmad Chug,    1.00
Year Endig Jams 3ntB 3937                       19 1939          19       1         92      1        1994    195       1M      I7       199      19       2teo                      -Eery              1.00
NM CapaitY ( 1S.D.)                                                                                                                                                       h miais  ratier  ratio Af
WI Ca l-rttio to Oa  Cs    1.00
Krwiba ootb Uratiag                       0        0        0        0       42       i4       8    4       04            so  84 14                 34       s
In. Iqtrts fra  Zamaia                    0        0      33       215      15         0       4       133       0        0        0        0        0        0          capiWt  cht Soasity Festes
kiahilita ts01  Teroals ff)                                                          1SO      241      270      270     270      270      27       27       27
Hup  Sap  2-2                                                                                                   418     418      *U      4*18      418i    419           -riba  b   Ektusim             1.00
in lwrts (di                                                                                                                               10       90      1701         -bg  Staps 2-2                 1.00
-MlerO la         tltsl        .00
Snrplaslartf flU 415                              SO        5        4        1        t        2        1     217      144       70        3        3        0
1b  fEer   Capilitty (    s6o0
Kihabs ban ohrat                               0    0    0    0    44                                   a        a                0 a    a    a    U
on1pwtn fr2laiu                                    0     1314     333      tS 1  'S 0         5       li ds      0        0        0        0        0        0
a titat eOd Ihua   If I)                                                                    e8        l0o0    l80      1800    2000    tOtO      nee      SWe
_P Sbgp 2-2                                                                                              0     2746    26    2746    2746    2              146
go   erta t                               0        0        0        0        0        a        0        0        0       0        0       61      33      SW                                                                 I
bwplaslbrtfall                         4924    2537  XSDt    me l Z13301    23  3   116       2       31      257       W n              1se2              to -                                                              t'
ito_it Ctb of satng Projected   ois Pow    _d                          ( dtiq uplial ad 040 costs of sstio  capacityl
You End       bsz         MltDM                 013      191109    190     591      199      2995    1994    199       5lf    1am         9       19    1
Sytem bergs Snioat (33                 196       313    9W       1002   t06        305        115   11t50    23913    1235     070    333        133      14111t.
Eaw'g slatudi   (33
-Cuih  O1                            493      40       90      40@      496      49W      493B   4a0   _9            43       40               43       4
-b_g   (ura  cosd)                   9M    321?           0    34        362      SW3     43    5146    SW22    6M 71                   PM      1UV      49    o             tol cab to 3        b bil*1    3.00
-l s                                    0        0 o     4    712m  146              0   m 518                 0        0        0    6    US   m2
_b         it d t  tcoll             323      119%      19         0      123    2131       120     26e      10"      52       693       U4      la6      39 Period  M-2f0                                    "L0
-      o ld  %ru mmtls                 0        0        a        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        ObaeaPOW ri        12-20  at N  toa lsl         107.13
Cqaital I 40   Coats (t illiel                                                                                                                                  t1tal a nt Wl                                   91.21
-_us  Pa   2-2                       0.0e     0.0      0.0      0.00    24       71041   112.95   Mfg2    I?7        L36       .31    8L6       03       L3
-d tlhea  ataa                      0O       0.0 o.    .07    21.08    1LO      6.69     3.68         3.48   8     3.4      L.3      L.O      L$    3.4-
-pW.t   .andbrp                     L0S    0.oo    27.16   26.4         I.        0.00     7.55    1522     0.oe       .0      .0o o    .4    1.30    19.
brg  Cast (Stil                                                                                                                                                  l t  Idl atl Cuts to t986Z7hillMt1               .LOD
_uP                                  1t.46    I.7      4.92    L73    7.23        7.19    lt07    7.10    1L2        11.3    121      12.43    9.9      16.                                                  *
-qets                                 .00     00       3.33    4.        3.67     L.o0     5.V      2.9      L.OO    00       0.0      06       1.0      k.e5 P         IW 17-0* 
-Old IheralSttles                    LO        o0     0.0      0.0o     0.0o     0 .       o    L0O        0.00     0.00    0.00       .0    0O.        0.OD to    f rid 1001-2015 at 2        lsas         26.49      t    8
Total CWs (Zllia)                     11.46    11.37    43.4    1L9       7.00   1.    212   ML7    I5.4L              2L3     24.U    25.32    369    5L4  toal   et oa                                       997        G
talgwribs  ath lprstilq ad i  Inut fn            i  fo r 190 7-1992 us tim  to be Sens to all Cts.                                                                                                     - 
(Elb  iarte,froa Radl1 aWd    brin se iacitn hsr  76 as.lmed fator,to atb  ts Cas quvult hr ewlutom  p a
Ifl buWeuta  iwous Is cipacithrgy tar_ d to dtwt rieablitatin Cans



Kt_ _I P             fSW  lIE tMl_S MII OM5   190 20
lowr  "at ame 30t                          97      19W        I9m     190    19"      392       9       3994     195      19        9 97 ?  19       199      3             Parmeu        Evwalo te Cm
Iarp1u#S6rtfa1from Eoh,istloq faciltiUef k1.U ti  to kite  Ieafitse                                                                          *                              UII NEt  £169            2
bairn lamed fl  .e...3                   45s       50     -145    -211    -204       -247     -311    -494      -50       -        -02      -719     -59       42
Erry  91% S..)                          49       2997    9l97      1504      64l      475     -275     457    -I2W5 314           -2120    -2m7     -308     -321           1a    EacWe Pta,Z611           2.LOB
VFOPM 4              heib  StU  iraretigla)          I3 Wt-9                                       lAllitete 0ld Thlet statis             I392                             Import Tariffylatio od  m
NM Impots frn lambis from, 392t&)vp to 10                                        Kariba bath 1 t i eo                     "a9                             tariff to 3I99  tariff
etM  fire OMrgy                                                         amg  Stag  2-2                          3                                             bed   C           3.00
taw  E6dimg   s2t                       197       9 w  l   9"9     3990       1        9tm    399      I9       395       199      MY7   199         19       me                                           S l.00
be Eaaity do S.D.)                                                                                                                                                          Euam 1Ffe htiom  Ratio of
W sltttatis to ubw  cm         1.00
Krbai Smt&  patiot                        O        "                 "       2         4       of        4       84        4        4       es        a        of
Ina topttsfrouZadei                        0        0      350      21U     135         0       6U      335         0 1              a         0        0        0          C*pitalC CtM  b ti ity Factrs
Pehilitate Old Th1rmal  1e)                                                           164      241      270      27        20      2         270      270      270
faraba  Deat Etteauion                                                                                            300      36  300  30    0      300      3     00 n
uomo  Stag  2-2                                                                                                                       0      439      418      43           -Kariba bath letuin            1.0t
ON trte.s td)                                                                                    0        0        0        0         0        a        0        0           NMP  map 2-2                  t.00
---d Therals hebllttis    3.00
Sarpla      tfall                        435       50        5        4        1        I         I        3       9 W               s7     79        2a'      130
ba  Emrg Capility too *...)
tKrieba tsen   f e                         *ti 0   0        0        0       44       U        88       a         a1 a3             U        U                 S
No  lqwta fr         lloe                           0 o    31      363      145         0      5N9    IN6          0       307      745        0        0        0
ahllltmt 01  Thermal /d)                                                              440      No      too0       oo10   1000      1000     lo0      10       1000
ltank  bath Extemssi                                                                                              300      30e    3no        30       300      300
ben" Step 2-2                                                                                                      0        0        0       744     2746    27U4
Mu" Itmrts (di                                                                          0        0        o         D        e        o        o        o        0
SpluIertfall                            4924     2597     3301     33       2        lK 100    1193     3414      125        0       13     t53       0"9      43
Eceaic Costs of  etdie  Proected Zi 11  ter  lmed                       *ttlacliso capital at  S   costs of eisti  capacityl
Year ndia,  e 30th                      IW3      31       1399     3990     II       1992    1M        19 19      95 I     99 I    37 I      9? 198  1W9    2000
Sstem EWr       qitrant 4M)             974      951313    9tlU   1001      3349    10735    13315    11507    31933   12334    327       I33223    1333    t417tru Pet Vales  Totl Costs to I384(Silll)01)    9.60
ftgy allecautio 6)
-aibh Itby                            490      4O    40          0 00D    44       49        95      m9       521      523      529 5 2#           521 53  5  52   Period  SW-20ft                               4346
-beog   plas   co)l                   2793    3217      3250     3S       3452    3U3       4529     514      5522     5750     5750      7548     799       791 t-eat t          2001-2035 st 20 le l:          IN4.5
-imports                                 0        0     1314     Im       1445        0      569      3i63       0       307      745        0 o        o
-eg   joist predct codl)              1293     1194     I          0      529s    2131      79        l9t     22          0        0      30       413     17115 Tota htat Vda                                 M4.
-01d TherultSUtie                        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0      975      99         v         o 0      0      137
Capital  f" Costs IZeillios)
-Old Tbereal Sbttim s                 0.00     0.00    I9.07    23.      39.0      6.4      3.68     3.6      3.       3Us      3.        3.60    3.V    L36
-Va    Set Estesaim                   0.00     0.00     0.O0    2465    3553    63.95    435    35.53    13.03          1.10     1.119    1.3   13          1.18
-be_   it 91p 2-2                      .       0.00 0. 00 9.00        0    .00  0   .00  0.0   0 O  24.14    1S.41   192.95   154.2   977    ILS3           I.34
-lowt b      .od  hr                  0.00      0.00    17.14    24.0    19.11    0.e0      7.44    15.44     0.00     4.00      .n       0.00     0.60     0.60 Prest vabs Total Costo to 19SOetZi113l01)    L.44
ery Cutsw CZhiIiuJ __)
e                                    3.4*      IX.37    4.92     3.73     7.29    17.79    10.13     4.119    7.4      4.41    4.41    192    11.50    I9.4  Peid 3W7-2000:                                     794.23
-lerts                                0.00     0.00     3.33     4.50     L.47     0.00     1.44     3.60     0.0      0.7       3.9      0.eo    0.40      0.60  m-oat  iritd 2001-2015 at20QO leld             201425
-O1d ttl Station                      0.60 0    .00  0   .00     0.co     0.00     0.00     0.0      0.0      3 16.86    19.04    19.01   0.00     0O. *     .95 4.
toto   cut  tzbailliam                 31.44    33.37     5.40    79.4    53L43 S 3o32    84.43    90.77   119.62   216.07   399.2    02.S4    2.2    39.34 TotltteVt vat                                        1092U 
tUllatha Sath 1%rt1ag 4id  _ iwt free liase fw  _W-993 ame talt, to be camm to all Ces
(011m imports,from ladle adior bunaadpmar  iel*t4 hawe to age the Cases   uvat fa  evaiee  ptrposes.



-61 -
- INVM 6lAN=IIKE  2.6
Pow0   11 PROJECT                                F      T3qe  1      2
Zimbabe'.s Power Inveastmet Program FY88 -Y93
1 ZM Billion 
kase Costs & Physical Contingencin   1967198  19889  1989/90  1990/91  1991192   9/2193                     total
Power 11 Project
Local                          0.00    56.61    44.97    32.84       0.00      0.00             134.12
Foreign                        0.00    50.72    55.61    38.24       0.00      0.00             144.57
Total                          0.00   107.33   100.58    71.08       0.00      0.00             278.99
Mm Beneration Plant
Local                          0.00     5.09      5.94    10.13    15.95    35.23                72.34
Foreign                        0.00    11.88    13.86    32.01    62.36   140.92                261.05
Total                          0.00    16.97    19.81    42.14    78.32   176.15                333.39
Transausdion Network
Local                          7.21     8.06      4.50    10.00    10.50    11.00                51.27
Foreign                       11.45    10.38      6.20    13.10    14.20    15.10                70.43
Total                         18.66    18.       3 10.70    23.10    24.70    26 10             121.70
Distribution NetNorks
Local                          0.00     0.00      0.00    10.10      9.20      9.00              26.30
Foreign                        0.00     0.00      0.00      7.20     8.30      8.50              24.00
Total                          0.00     0.00      0.00    17.30    17.50    17.50                52.30
Rural Electrification
Local                          0.78     6.93      5.85      6.50     7.60      8.90              44.36
Foreign                        2.05     1.59      1.36      1.0      1.70      2.10              10.40
Total                         10.93     8.42      7.21      8.10     9.30    10.90               54.76
Vehicles and Workshops
Local                          0.00     0.00      0.00      4.00     4.50      5.00              13.50
Foreign                        0.00     0.00      0.00      3.10     3.50      4.10              10.70
Total                          0.00     0.00      0.00      7.10     0.00      9.10              24.20
Ranpower and Training 1/
Local                          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.30      0.30               0.60
Foreign                        0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.80      0.70               1.50
Total                          0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.10      1.00               2.10
Eng.Services and T. Assist.
Local                          0.60     0.30      0.40      1.00     0.90      0.80               4.00
Foreign                        3.00     1.00      1.50      5.10     5.00      4.70              20.30
Total                          3.60     1.30      1.90     6.10      5.90      5.50              24.30
Studies
Local                          0.00     0.00      0.30     0.40      0.50      0.50               1.70
Foreign                        0.00     0.00      0.70     0.80      1.00      1.10               3.60
Total                          0.00     0.00      1.00      1.20     1.50      1.60               5.30
Total Base Costs & Phys. Cont.1oid-1987 prices)
Local                         16.59    76.99    61.96    74.97    49.45    70.63                350.49
Foreign                       16.50    75.57    79.23   101.15    96.88   177.22                546.55
Total                         33.09   152.46   141.20   176.12   146.32   247.95                897.04
Price Escalation Factors (in HS terms)
Lotal                          1.06     1.20      1.33      1.46     1.61      1.7
Foreign                        1.09     1.23      1.37      1.51     1.66      1.83
Total Costs in Current Prices
Local                         17.50    92.07    82.36   109.60    79.52   124.95                50a.01
Foreign                       17.91    93.13   108.76   152.84   160.90   323.77                957.31
Total                        35.41   185.21   191.11   262.45   240.42   448.72                1363.32
Exchange Rate(Z$/US$S)                     1.74     1.93      1.99     2.20      2.36      2.51
Total Costs in US$ Nillion
Local                         10.06    50.45    41.49    49.93    33.67    49.78                235.38
Foreign                       10.29    51.03    54.79    69.63    68.12   129.90                382.85
Total                         20.35   101.48    96.28   119.57   101.79   178.75                618.23



- 62 -
ANE  2.6
Page 2 of 2
ZIMBA_E
P(~E II PIChC
Zimbabwe's Power Iinvestment Program FY88-1Y93 at Current Prices
4 l$ Nillion )
1987/88  19919/9   1999/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93              Total
Power It Project                          0.00   130.29   136.10   105.79       0.00     0.00             372 19
New Seneration Plant I/                   0.00    20.74    26.93    63.19   129.24   319.77               559.86
Transission Network                      20.03    22.44    14.49    34.41    40.47    47.05               178.90
Distribution Networks                     0.00     0.00      0.00    25.65    28.59    31.45               95.69
Rural Electrification                    11.49    10.14      9.64    11.92    15.05    19.40               77.64
Vehicles and Workshops                    0.00     0.00      0.00    10.53    13.05    16.34               39.92
Nanpower and Training                     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.81      1.91              3.62
Eng.Services and T. Assist.               3.89     1.59      2.59     9.17      9.75    10.00              36.99
Studies                                   0.00     0.00      1.36     1.79      2.46     2.89               8.51
Total                                    35.41   185.21   191.11   262.45   240.42   448.72              1363.32
1/ Composed of:
-Hwange 3                        0.00      0.00     0.00    37.78   124.59   319.77               482.14
-Rehab.Old Thermals              0.00    20.74    26.93    25.40       4.66      0.00              77.72
Assumptions
1.  Year                                  1987     1989      1989     190       1991     1992      1993
International Inflation              12.10    10.00     6.50    -1.70      0.80      3.50      3.50
Domestic Inflation                   11.00    15.00    12.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
Exchange Rate IZ$/US$)                1.70     1.79      1.87     2.10      2.29     2.43      2.59
2 Price Escalation Factors 11987=1.00):
Local              Foreign
FY99         1.06               1.06
FY89         1.20               1.15
FY90         1.33               1.19
FY91         1.46               1.17
FY92         1.61               1.20
FY93         1.77               1.24
3. The base cost estimates are expressed in mid 1987 prices.
4. Price contingencies include effect of exchange rate changes froe mid-1987
on C.e estimates in Z$ for the forex components.



Vod                          -                                                                                            -4
- 
saw                                                                                                       pop" PMW4       wm- 
^~~ a     eX Er--
[E} *00                      a-           *10E                                      lM
1.~~~~~~~~ I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w _law0  I
GOPWAW^  *6,00                                  WIN"                     m~~~~ap"i3     i ~         -m
a~~~~~~~~~~~a
j     ew" ow U



- 64 -
ANNX 3.2
Page 1 OX 2
ZIMABWE
POWER II PROJECT
ZESA's Mbnpower Statistics
Established      -Vacancies-
Positions       Number      X
A. Monthly Paid Staff
Department
General Manager Office                        5             1      20
Legal/Public Relations                       29             6      21
Corporate Services                          187            35      19
Finance                                     246            16       7
Consumer Services                           641           131      20
Generation & Transmission                   429            94      22
Corporate Planning Unit                       6             6     100
Total                                  1,543           289      19
B. Weekly Paid Staff
Central Stores                               33            (3)     (9)
Central Workshops                            75           (10)    (13)
Head Office                                  54           (23)    (43)
Main Construction                            34             2       6
Substations                                  21             9      43
Districts                                 1,796            82       5
Power Stations
gwange                                   400            9        2
Others                                   292            22       8
Garage                                       36             5)    (1l4)
Total                                  2,741           83        3
tO
CO  Casual Labor                                   72
D. Expatriate Staff
BHEL                                          8
BEI                                          53
WAPCOS                                       14
ESB                                          33
EdF                                           5
Directly Recruited                           30
Total                                    143



- 65 -
ANNEM 3.2
Page 2 of 2
B. ~Trawl
Engineers                                   35
Technicians                                  7
Project Coordinators                         1
Personnel Officers                           3
Administration Officers                      3
Accountants                                  6
Students at Polytechnic                     42
Apprentices
slectricians                            134
mechanics                                49
Inst. & Control Technicians              8
Welders                                   1
Trainees at Ewange                      127
Trainees at Munyati                      34
Total                               458
Technical Vacancies
Job Title
Engineers                   24
Techbicians                 25
Electricians                69
Motor Mechanics              8
Mechanical litters          17
C & I Mchanics             13
Total                   156
em



ZIMBABWE
POWER II  PROJECT
Project Operational Support and Training Program
Power Operation Suvwort
(Z$ 1000)
Year                              87/88                       88/89                  89/90.           Total 3 Years
(4)  P4xqmtI~rn &tr~ort      loal Poeigi Total        lal Forei     n         lFarl Foatep Tbtal   local fowlUa
Pkofiniciaul ad n   Profess unal
2 1D  6275  8395        1 144  4875 6019         664  3600 4264  3928 1473D 18678
Bow cost.                          _'
uKstly *hUw8 DMniiI 
._                             212D  6275  8395        1 144  4875 6019         664  3600 4 Z4   3928 1473D 18678
IAc1 fees am besIW c Z$3 COD per pxvrc/fuly for Direct P-i-ts
i.e. NMn Pro£fesil Expatriaboe.
*41



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 2 of 4
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Project Operational Support and Training Program
Power Operational Support
Ehgb##rs      Engineers        Technicians
Distribution  Generation         Generation   Artisans
!ZESA                      14            21                 -           -
20          20 BEI
26 WAPCOS
Kariba                     2             4                _           34 ESB
16           25                 20          80
TOTAL : 61 technical staff and 80 artisans
19881-2                Engineers        Engineers      Technicians    Artisans
Distribution      Generation       Generation
ZESA                     12              21                -            -
5            lO BEI
20 WAPCOS
CAPC (Kariba)             2               3                             10 ESB
TOTAL : 43 technical staff and 40 artisans
9282/20                Engineers        Engineers      Technicians      Artisans
Distribution      Generation       Generation
ZESA                     7                16                -             -
4             5 BEI
CAPC (Kariba)            2                 4                _            15 WAPCOS
9                20                4            20
TOTAL : 33 technical staff and 20 artisans



- 68 -
ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 4
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Project Operational Support and Training Program
Manpower Training (Overseas Fellowships)
FY87/88     FY88/89   FY89/90      Total
Generation
Number of Staff                       15         10         5          30
Foreign Cost (Z$)                350,000   300,000   150,000      800,000
Tranamis dion/Distribution
Number of Staff                       10          5         3          18
Foreign Cost (Z$)                150,000   100,000    60,000      310,000
I4anapement
Number of Staff                       20         10        10          40
Foreign Cost (Z$)                250,000   100,000   100,000      450,000
National Control Center
Number of Staff                        8          4         4           16
Foreign Cost (Z$)                 50,000    25,000    25,000      100,000
Total Local Cost (Z$)              400,000   210,000   130,000      740,000
Total Foreign Coat (Z$)            800,000   525,000   335,000   1,660,000
Total                     1,200,000   735,000   465,000   2,400,000



- 69 -
AN= 3.3
Pe 4 of 4
ZDSF
POR  II PROJEM
Operatio  Support and Traiii   Proam
ZESS -  empwr and  TMLI
Year               -lot Year - 1987/8- -2nd Year - 1988/89-  -3rd Year - 1989/90-  -Totals (3 years)-
oM,r Trainzi    Ical Forel8  Total local Eemli. Total Local Foreign Total local Foreig  Tots
ibper TrainIg
Overseas
(Fellowsalps)
Bane Cot           400    800  1,200  210    525        735  130    335    465    740 1,660 2,40
bAldlngs req-red
for extenslons to
Hare
Bae  Cost          1,000    100  1,100                                               1,000   100 1,100
Exensionl's Thing
-mudift
High School
and Apprentices
kcmimodation         560    100    660                                                560   100   660
Subtotal     1,560    200  1,760                                               1,560   200  1,760
-ltt
Physical Content
Simulstor Horate            200    200            20       20   10      20      30     10   240   250
Equipent Training
aentre Harare       30     50      80   30    100       130   50    100    150    110   250   360
Equituuut Bulawayo    30     90    120   30       50       80                          60   140   200
EqulpmentHbangs       30    100    130   30       50       80   50      50    10o    110   200   310
Subtotal        90    440    520   90    220        310  110    170    280    290   830 1,120
IOTAL              2,050   1,440  3,490  300    745   1,045  240    505    745  2,590 2,690 5,280



-70 -                       ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 8
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Project Description
1.         This project consists of the rehabilitation and uprating of the
plant and equipment in Kariba South hydroelectric generating station, the
transmission and distribution systems including extensions thereto, and the
provision of fully-equipped workshops, vehicles, training and consulting
engineering services, with the objective of providing a reliable supply of
electric power to consumers in Zimbabwe.
Kariba South Hydroelectric Generating Station
2.            Completion of the program to rehabilitate and upgrade the
existing plant and equipment in Kariba South Station comprises the
following components:
- Initial tests, inspection and analysis. This first phase would
consist of index testing of the turbines, engineering design
study of the generator transformers, inspection and tests on one
generator transformer, temperature rise test on 19 kV equipment,
inspection studies and hydraulic investigations relating to civil
works, supervision of tests and analysis of reports by consultant
engineers.
- Generator Rewinding.   Due to deterioration of insulation, the
reliability of the generator has decreased, and rewinding is
required. The program for rewinding would be completed.
- Turbine Runners.   CAPC's consultants, Merz and McLellan (UK)
recommended that new runners be installed to improve the
efficiency of the turbines and to uprate turbine capacity to
match the increased generator capacity after they have been
rewound. Other turbine equipment is also included.
- Transformers.    Three  80  MVA  single  phase  transformers  are
required as a spare bank pending experience with the existing
generator step-up transformers at the increased loading from
generator uprating.
- Modern  electronic  governors.      The  existing  governors  are
relatively sluggish in operation due to wear and new governors
would permit increased accuracy and quicker response to load
changes, and facilitate joint load control.
- AC excitation. The existing system is old and would be replaced
by a thyristor-based AC excitation system of modern design
similar to equipment in the Kariba North generating station, so
as to improve system stability and to facilitate joint VAR
(reactive volt-ampere) control.



- 71 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 2 of 8
- Start/Stop sequence control.   This would replace the obsolete
existing equipment so as to permit high availability of the
units, step control, and be programmable to suit system
requirements.
3.         The foregoing items would be funded by a proposed CDC loan, and
are scheduled to be completed in 1991.
4.        In addition to the foregoing, spare and replacement parts, and
cosumable items used in regular operation, having an estimated total cost
of Z$2.65 million would be purchased.
Distribution System
5.        Most of the distribution system (33 kV and below) is old, and the
recent growth in demand for electrical energy has overloaded circuits,
resulting in frequent failures and low-voltage problems. In some areas no
new loads are being connected. The replacement of some lines with larger
conductors, the reinforcement of local systems with new lines and the
replacement, extension and installation of new substations would permit a
mre reliable service to existing consumers, and serve areas presently
without electric power.
HARARE AREA
Substations
(a) Harare South.   Replace a 1 MVA 33/11 kV transformer with a 3 MVA
33/11 kV transformer, replace isolatc-s and improve protection.
(b) Dover. Install a 5 MVA 33/11 kV transformer to boost supplies to a
rural electrification scheme.
(c) Peatherstone.   Install one 3 MVA 33/11 kV transformer and related
equipment.
Distribution
A provisional sum of Z$14.0 million has been Included to cover the
cost of 11 kV and low voltage facilities.
VESTERN AREAD
33 kV lines
Ovanda-Manama (66 km). The 25 mm2 conductors would be replaced with
100 mmz line to reduce voltage problems.
Substations
Huange local.   The existing 2 MVA 33/11 kV transformers would be
replaced with two 5 MVA because additional loads are expected from
the railway and water supply plant.



-72 -                       ARM  4.1
Page 3 of 8
Hlonveni.  Existing 22 kV network would be operated at ll kV and two
2 WVA 33/11 kV transformers installed.
Kamativi. Capacitors would be installed to ifi,rove voltage on a long
WW[Vifeder to the mine.
Distribution
A provisional sum of Z$11.6 million has been Included to cover the
cost of 11 kV and low voltage facilities.
EASTERN AREA
33 kV lines
Triangle-Rutenga (100 ki).  Improve supply to Rutenga.
Substations
Cbiredxi Mill, Increase capacity by replacing 2x5 NVA by 2x10 WVA
transformers to meet load growth.
Distribution
A provisional sum of Z$10.8 million has been included for 11 kV and
low voltage facilities.
SOUTHERN AREA
33 kV lines
Gwenoro Dam-Tee-off (14 ki).  The 25 mm2 conductor would be replaced
with a 0OO mmZ line.
Nvuma-'jalapani (19 km).  The 25 =2 conductor would be replaced with
a ioo Zam line.
Distribution
A provisional sum of Z$13.4 million has been included for 11 kV and
lower voltage facilities.
NORTHERN AREA
33 kV lines
Darwendale-swana (25 kin). The line would be reconductored to reduce.
low-voltWge problems. Additional irrigation and agricultural loads
are anticipated on this line.
ABndurao-Cwnenary (80 km).  A second 33 kV line would be constructed
to provide stditlonal capacity to the overloaded line,



ANNX 4.1
Page 4 of 8
Mhanura-Karoi (56 km).  The 25 mm2 conductor would be replaced with
a 75 imm conductor because of overloading.
Ngura-Yomba (31 km).  The 25 mm2 conductor would be replaced with
a 75 mmZ conductor because of overloading.
Kia Ora-Glendale (81 km).   A new line is required to reinforce
existing supplies.  New loads cannot be connected until completed.
Substations
Kia Ora. A new substation containing one 5 NVA 33/11 kV transformer
is required to relieve overloading.
Gadzema. A new substation with 2x5 MVA transformers is required to
relieve the overloading at Chakari.
Madziwa. The capacity of the two 10 MVA 33/11 kV transformers would
SW augmented following completion of the Norton-Bindura 132 kV line.
Bindura. The two 3 MVA transformers would be replaced by two 7.5 MVA
transformers.
Chakari. A new substation containing two 3 IVA 33/11 kV transformers
would be constructed.
Kadoma. A new substation containing two 5 MVA 33/11 kV transformers
would be constructed.
Mwansa. A new substation containing one 3 NVA 33/11 kV transformer
woulbdbe constructed.
Distribution
A provisional sum of Z$23.1 million has been included to cover the
cost of 11 kV and low voltage facilities.
A list of the material requirements is given in Annex 4.3.
Transmission Lines
6.        With the major generating facilities located in the northern and
western part of the country far from the major load centers (Map IBRD
20119), a substantial transmission system is required to supply power
throughout the country. As for the distribution system, most of the major
transmission lines operating at 330, 220, 132 and 88 kV have been in
service many years, and ZESA now finds it difficult to maintain a high
level of service without extensive investment in new facilities. Thus the
following items would be included in the Project.



~ 74 -                   ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 8
330 kV lines
Tokwe-Triangle (150 km). New line to be operated initially at
132 kV.
Warren-Kadoma-Sherwood (183 km). Second 330 kV line.
132 kV lines
Chinhoyi-Mhangura (S5 ka).   The exisAung 88 kV line would be
re-Insulated for 132 kV.
Warren-Seki (25 in). Existing 132 kV line is heavily loaded, and
a second 132 kV line would be constructed In parallel,
Norton-Bindura-Madziwa (160 km).    Existing  88 kV  lines  are
overloaded. A third line would be constructed at 132 kV.
Substations
7.        Additional substation capacity would be installed at Atlanta (30
NVA), Kambuzuma (30 NVA), Criterion (2x20 )VA), Madaiwa (10 MVA), Righ
field (2x60 WVA) and Kadoma (2x125 NVA).
Workshops
8.          ZESA needs to make adequate provision to maintain and repair
facilities. To this end, a component of the project is the construction of
new workshop facilities completely equipped with the machine and hand tools
to enable repairs to be carried out in an officlent and timely manner, and
to continue the practice of fabricating parts, some of which are no longer
mnufactured by the original suppliers.   ZESA would purchase a 100 acre
site on the outskirts of Harare to unify workshops, stores and Inventory,
and the garage and transport yard. 'The workshops of about 12,000 m2 of
covered area, would contain metal fabricating tools (lathes, shapers,
drills), welding equipment, hydra.lic presses, fixed and travelling cranes,
ovens and furnaces, as well as a variety of hand tools. Adequate stores
facilities with a covered area of about 6,000 m2 would permit more
efficient operation and control of inventory.  The garage and transport
yard would have a covered area of about 3,800 i2, and would be equipped
with the tools and equipment required for adequate maintenance of ZESA's
large vehicle fleet. The completion of these facilities would redu.ce the
cost of maintenance not only through Improved efficiency but also by
reducing the requirement to import replacement parts.  A summary of the
workshop tools and their cost is given in Annex 4.3.
Vehicles
9.         An analysis of the age of ZESA's present vehicle fleet is given
below:



-75 -                       ANNE  4.1
Page 6 of 8
Number Available
Age                      Age
Vehicle type                 less taEn 6 years         more than 6 years
Passenger care                      147                        45
Small 4 wheel-drives                133                        95
Small pick-ups                       36                        95
Motorcycles                          33                         4
Vans                                 40                         2
Age-                    >Ag!
less than 8 years        more than 8 years
Heavy trucks                        118                        129
Tractors, loaders                     7                        23
Buses                                 1                         39
Heavy trailers                        -                       223
In order to improve operations and reduce maintenance costs, the project
includes a component to augment the vehicle fleet.  The number and cost of
the vehicles to be purchased is given in Annex 4.3.  The vehicle prices
shown in the estimate of cost for this component (Annex 4.2) include a 102
mark-up  to cover  spare  and  replacement parts  for about  3 years of
operation.  The high proportion of local cost estimate for the vehicles
covers the assembling in Zimbabwe of imported vehicle kits and the supply
of locally manufactured components, such as hoses and radiators.
Manpower Training
10.          The estimate of cost (Annex 4.2) is based on the following
tabulation of the number of staff to be trained, primarlly overseas,
assuming that generation and transmission staff training is for one year,
and that training of the management and control staff would be of shorter
duration and open to more participants. Where possible, training experts
would be brought into the country to augment the number of staff trained.
Staff                                       Number to be trained
Year                             1987-88      ,1988-89       1989-90
Generation                             15            10              5
Transmission                           10             5              3
Senior and Middle. management          20            10             10
Control Center                          8             4             4
Additional local costs would be incurred in the construction of additions
to the Harare Training Centre, and for the accommodation of trainees at
Hwangs. Also, new training equipment and teaching aids are required to
augment the equipment already funded by EDF.



-76 -                       ANNEX 4.1
Page 7 of 8
Power Operational Support
11.            ZESA will continue to require expatriate assistance for
management and operations, and a component of this project would be the
provision of expatriates as follows:
--Technical Staff-
Location                             1988-89       1989-90        1990-91
Generation (Hwange)                     36            21             17
Distribution                             8             6              4
Projects                                 5             4              3
Kariba Complex                           6             6              6
Harare Area                              3             3              2
Bulawayo Area                            3             3              1
Subtotal                              61            43            33
----Other Expatriate Staff-
BEI staff                               20            10              5
WAPCOS/BHEL & ESB                       80            40             20
Total                             161            93            58
MIS and Computer and Facilities
12.       ZESA would engage consulting services to assist in the design and
Implementation of a comprehensive management information system.   Until
this work has been completed, no specific values can be applied to the
various components of the system. An estimate of US$1 million has been
made for computer hardware costs. Additional funds will be required for
consultants, computer room site, software and staff training.
Engineering Services
13.         ZESA would employ consultants to assist in the management and
sup :-!vsion  of  the  proposed  project,  including  design,  procurement,
suptrvision of construction and erection inspection, and performance of
acceptance tests.
Studies
14.          High Voltage Transmission Network Study.   ZESA would hire
experienced professional corsultants to prepare a long term development
program of t'Ae high voltage transmission network in Zimbabwe. The stuJy
would determine the optimal development of the transmission network up to
the year 2000, investigate the appropriateness of technical parameters of
the network, calculate load flows, system stability limits and short
circuit levels, assess the reliability of the system and review insulation
coordination  and  protection  devices  setting  requirements.    Terms  of
reference for this study (Annex 2.2) have been agreed with the Bank.



- 77 -                      ANNEX 4.1
Page 8 of 8
15.       Power System Transient Behavior and Load Frequency Control.  ZESA
would hire professional engineering consultants to study power system
transient behavior and propose necessary modification and improvements to
achieve effective and reliable power system operation. Furthermore, there
is a need to study load frequency control requirements in the power system
of Zimbabwe.   At present, frequency is regulated by the prime mover
governors, and there is no secondary load frequency control. In view of
the complexity of the power system generation units and international power
interconnections, it is necessary to undertake a detailed study of the load
frequency control requirements in the power system, to propose required
techbical facilities to enable proper control of tie-line power flows, and
to maintain frequency at standard levels.   Terms of Reference for these
studies (Annex 2.3) have been agreed with the Bank.



- 78 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Detailed Estimate of Project Base Costs
(Z$ Millions) a/
Local    Foreign    Total
1. Kaiiba South Hydrostation
Initial Tests, Inspections
and Analysis                        0.01       0.25      0.26
Uprating Costs
Model tests for turbine runners   -           0.47      0.47
Six turbine runners                0.20      15.20     15.40
Materials                          0.60       -         0.60
Electrical Equipment               0.55       0.26      0.81
Three transformers                 0.50       4.19      4.69
Subtotal                         1.85      20.12     21.97
Other Components
Governors                          0.35       1.05      1.40
AC excitation                      0.30       2.50      2.80
Control equipment                  0.30       2.10      2.40
Spare parts                                   2.65      2.65
Subtotal                         0. 95      8.3-0     9.25
Engineering Design & Supervision                1.28       1.28
Total                            2.81      29.95     32.76
-   .. .._  
2. Distribution Networks
33 kV lines                        2.31       1.71      4.02
33/11 kV substations               0.53       2.86      3.39
11 kV low voltage services        4A.80      28.10     72.90
Total                           47.64      32.67     80.31
3. Transmission Networks
Lines
Cnhhoyi-Mhangura                   1.59       0.88      2.47
Triangle-Tokwe                    :3.17       8.06     21.23
Warren-Seki                        0.72       0.40      1.12
Norton-Bindura-Madziwa             4.61       2.56      7.17
Warren-Kadoma-Sherwood            16.24       9.86     26.10
Subtotal                      36.33     21.76      58.09
#f In mld-1987 prices and at mid-1987 foreign exchange rates.



_ 79 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 5
Local    Foreign    Total
Substations
Atlanta                          0.31      0.40      0.71
Kambuzuma                        0.10      0.10      0.20
Criterion                        0.25      0.68      0.93
Madziwa                          0.11      0.60      0.71
Highfield                        0.89       1.61      2.50
Xadoma                           1.28      5.66      6.94
Subtotal                     2.94      9.05     11.99
Total                       39.27     30.81     70.08
=           -         -
4. Workshops
Site preparation             1.52      -          1.52
(rail, roads, water,
sever)
Workshops                    5.83      0.10      5.93
Workshop equipment           1.22      3.50      4.72
Garage                       1.73      0.10       1.83
Garage equipment             0.11      0.25       ,.36
Warehouse                    2.59      0.10      2.69
Miscellaneous                0.32      0.11      0.43
(tanks, fenclig,
paving, substation)
Total                   13.32      4.16     17.48
5. Vehicles
Passenger cars               0.09      0.12      0.21
0.5 ton trucks               0.12      0.12      0.24
1 ton trucks                 0.65      0.78      1.43
2 ton trucks                 0.87      1.19      2.06
3 & 5 ton trucks             1.14      1.39      2.53
7 ton trucks                 3.20      4.32      7.52
Motorcycles                  0.08      0.07      0.15
Front end loaders            -         0.14      0.14
Cranes                       -         0.22      0.22
Buses (30 and 76 seaters)    0.40      0.20      0.60
Street Lighting Vehicles     0.76      0.44      1.20
Tractors                     0.74      0.63       1.37
Tippers                      0.93      0.70       1.63
Misc. equipment              -         0.22      0.22
Subtotal                 8.98     10.54     19.52
Taxes                        386       -         3.86
Total                   12.84     10.54     23.38
-         _         =



- 80 -
ANNEX 4.2
Page 3 of 5
Local    Foreig!    Total
6.  Training
Equipment                                 0.29       0.83      1.12
Fellowships and
Instructors                             2.30       1.71      4.01
Total                                 2.59      2.54       5.13
7. Power Operation Support
Professional and Technical Staff
Hwange                            1.86      7.00       8.86
ESC distribution                  0.44      1.64       2.08
ESC projects                     0.29       1.10       1.39
CAPC                              0.45      1.68       2.13
Harare                           0.20       0.74       0.94
Bulawayo                          0.17      0.64       0.81
Non-Professional Staff                   0.52       1.95      2.47
Total                        3.93      14.75      18.68
8. MIS and Computer
Equipment and Environment              2.65      4.55       7.20
Software                               0.32      0.48       0.80
Consultants                            0.50      0.50       1.00
Total                        3.45       5.55      9.00
- .-
9. Engineering Services
Consultants                            -         3.48       3,48
Local Expenses                         1.00      -          1.00
Total                        1.00       3.48      4.48
10. Studies
Transmission network development       0.00       1.00      1.00
System behavior and load
frequency control                      0.00      0.67       0.67
0.00      1.67       1.67
Total Project Base  Cost                    122.99    136.13    259.12
zCzzM=   .     . 



Zl                    - 1                                                        A-   =  4.2
sut m1n
1Nt VW                     ad VW                      3u w                        tUw                        t           Elli i   I55
freja  t_ut             Lcal F" r h         d      Ladt    FmSp   Mat          Ul   i p t        N        Ol tull  h lp   stel              14ul  Fardp   tuS
kw cut               0.91    0        1.5        0.6    IL*    57.6         5.3     mu    5L43         am      3.9      .6                .40   14.3    ILK
h ed Cest.          0e        C*      0.7       Qe03    OA       05         0.e6    OA4      en        L.4    1.3       LO               0.07    LE    0.9
Price Cot.           059      02 C       5 L      2 Cs       CO      LA      59    69         . e* s3.3   154 .w                                  LO6    6.5O
TOW              1.54    0A       5.3        0."    2311   3.70         5.67    .19    3.4         L9    4A        416%              1.96   21.70     .6
.lustrlhuleu  letwis
kw   ut             53       52.4   21."        5LO0   10.6    3.62        I536    92   IL.?          4An        31    603              23.93   56.3   40.0
ftskd e ot.          5.3      1.25    21         5.      5.94    LO         5.   09          2 .3      4.76    32       0.4              2.39    1.65    4*.4
tric Les.            343    5s0    6.           La        U CS    0105      6.0     LU    56A         17.2   I53.    3.35                047    6.43 _4___
ill             3.19  IL*             V.31  23.,  56.6    3.4          3.6    IL* 4       .0      84.  46    1T  INA                31419  23.6    R.O,
L.Trmaaisse - I nt
h  wug est          I3uI.30                     54.5  52.45                 6.   4.5t n.n7   3.73J   3.6                                2931519.
P sdtd cut.          O9.      OA      lde       L.n      06      L.34       L.      0.3      0.5       I.        .is    La               1.02     .19    111
kiteagot.            L5O      3.32    1.3       43       4*.     9*         LO      2.6      L6         5.I     50.0   3.6                .9     54      15.*
til             23.1,    57.50   40.76      .119   13.436 25            9.6?    7.12   57.39            4.0  5     IL.2             1.3    223   4.46
4.bt-',I ad Went
howt                 4.3    0.9       L4a      L4.       I.9     6.21       4.4?      1 X    L4       I3.      4.6   17.41               66      L24      Li7
U odll bst.          C2S  0.60 .6                L3.  10. 0.3               0 Ln . L6 Q.0.2   0L67025L1O                                 0.3 0.U0  L
Price lt.            0.9      0.24    I.I7       I3      C.IS    LI2       'Lt      0        2I        LB       OX      6.1 t            L26    02 L       .46
ted              Li.t    1.5 .  6.95         LO0         Li?an .0       6.31    20l1    6.           A  96.06       .A               9.3  1    LO    n.2
LTr_Apvtsti bTide
W"et                7L        LO    5.06        0O       0.6      .74       0.9     0.06    1.74       6.9      0.3    513               4.6     L61   1.4
fbied SCt.    L31.6 &O   L.    0.46OA40.                                    0.60.0                     0.e CO   .    CS                  0.24 Ln   OM
Price  at.           5.4      21        6       C.35    e.*        6        0.      0.       0.3       L2      2.LO     L                5.l7    5.%    L2
ls               9.02   IU4     2.4         15.6    1.21   L24          1.2      1.3     L2t      5.6   154.5   36                    .2      7.3a    5.75
6.U_u   ad treduw
hst                  2.La .4"   LO    0.30 L.0 .90   L240 3 0.74  L2   9S2 L5                                                             5.3 1.32 2.
tsicd cet.             5      007    0?         00       0.4 6.   0.0       0M      L.       0.06      05      0."       .26             07    0U7    0.
Prsia Les.           0.6      0.2     0.        C.0    0.3    03            0.52    01       0.        0L      L64      5.3              03      0.43    0
til              2.O      5.1     4.O       0.42    0.        1.21      0.3     0.19     5.6        3.6    LS2    63                 5.79    5.32    36
gm   Lut             L2       6.21      I6       .        .o     60         04      3.6        m       L42      11   5.52 LO                     7.13    9.3
scs)d Cost.          0.51    L03      0.46      QL0.    L04    0.39         Co      03    0.25         0.3     0.74    09                05      0.3   L0
Price Les.           04    1..3    1.97         0.39      .95    2.30       0.32    I.94    23         1.5    1.        6.C               0m     LA       L
til              2.69   L60    5".                   7.03    L6         5.46    13    C6           L23   39        2L5               LI7   5L0.1    532
B Ct                 1.2      2       3.        LU.3     Lt2    3.6         06      5.55    5.6        L.      L5       .46 e.17    2.64    4.65
Physicds    t.       L0       0.5     0O.       007    0.51    0.5          0.03     09      0    0o.5         0 .29     4               0.6  0L.         0.23
Price Lat.            .2      0.9    0.5        0O       L.u      .3        0.33    0.6      09        5.50    2.0      35               0.s      I.05    5.1
total             .7      2.7    4.65        1.3    LI D          L53   5.94     1.76    22        4.72    7.6l   5L2                2.4L      L9    6.
9.bE eriq  wrvicat
gm   Let             0.46      .39    1.79      0.4      59    I.79         0.29    0.7    0L.         5.06    L        4.46             0.5     5.78    2.
Picad tat.           0.02    0O.        0.l     0.2    0.07    0.4          0.0     0.04    0.4        0.05    Li5    0.                 0.03    0.6      0.11
Price Cast.          0.46    0.t    0.6         05       0.14    0m         0L.     02       0g        0.32    1.26    I.3               6.56    0.63    0.19
lJta             .Lo    5.60    2             .1S    2.6    2.1         0S.    5.55    5.42         .37    4.9                       0.70    2.3      L.2S
50.8Isduf
Ba cost              0.46    0.4    0.74        0.4    L0.       07.        0O.    0.5       0.S       0.46 e    .6?    5.6?             0.60    0.6      0.
Phsic  cat.          0.6    L.4    0.4          0.4o     0O4    0.04        04      05  0L 0           0.6    04        0                0.46    0.04    0.94
Price Cot.           LO 6      .5     0.53      0L.4     0.3     0.3        04      0.4      L4        04      0.57    01                0.46    0.29      .2
Tel              04       09      0.91       0.6    l.U       1.12      04      0.24    0.24       0.46    22    2.32                0.6      O.20    1.23
II. tos of IbtiuIf          0        0       0       3.b        0 e    9           0       0        0       3.S        0    Ll3 e.94    0.46    I.94
-   -    s  sem  -   voe  asm Mmm -    5mm mum .mm                                                                  mm so ul
read toe)l          7.7t      51    0.30       9.13    7.33  U3t.         43.02   57.9  5L5197      UL 1.96          31t2.3            69.13   9.03    3L6
d  Ewssmt           37.54   343 n..u6           30.52   36   10.           25.51   26.32   AL"        113.153   99.03  15.5
11 bly w,idcs we bujact to teas   ddios.



-82 -                                JO= 4.2
pap 5 of S
PWQECT COST SUAY
Local    Foreign  Total              Local  Foreip   Tol
(l$eillion)                         (USillim)
hie Cut                                  122.9      136.13  259.12              62.804    095  131.79
Physical Cent.                             8.53      8.44   16.9                 4.34    4.27    8.61
Subtotal                                 131.52    144.57   276.09              67.18   73.23  140.0
Price Coot.                               40.20     52.05   92.25               20.01   25.00   45.81
Subtotal                                 171.72    196.62  368.34               97.19   99.03  1L.22
Taes and htiu                              3.0o      -        3.06               I."     0.00    1."
Total Costs                              175.0    196.62  372.20               89.13   9.03  110.3
Assations
1. Ist yes 19089              2nd year 198919             3rd yea  1990/91
L  Yer                                 1907    1988       19       1990    1991
lnternatioal Inflation            12.10   10.00       4.50   -1.0       0.3
hotic Inflation                    11.00   15.00      12.00   10.00   10.4b
Excha   Rate  I IUM$ )              1.70    1.78      1.87    2.10    2.29
3 Price Escalation Factors:
Local            Foreiqn
lst  Wr:             0.20             0.15
2nd yea              0.33             0.19
3rd ytr              0.44             0.17
4. Th. bae cost estiate are epressed in aid 19 prices.
5. Price contigemn include effect of etchanqe rate changes from  id-19
on the estimtes in U fow the fare  components.



-83 -                           AU4.3
Pag 1 of 3
P, TI PRW
Estimated Q tities and Coas of Kquipmnt and Materials for Project    a
DLstribution Metworisr
33 kV Lines (75 .4)
Unit  QuAn            Local  Foreie    Total
--(Z thousands)-
Tbtal Legth      km        399                    -  
Wood Poles       No.    2,394            191        56    247
Conductor        Ini     1,229         1,068       878   1,946
Pin Insulators   Mo.    5,985              -        58      58
Disc Insulators   MD.   11,970             -       206    206
Pole Hardware    Sut       -               -       510    510
Erection                   -           1,057         -   1,057
Total                               2,316     1,708  4,024
Sibstations
The sub-transmissin and distribution substations witch are included as components in
this item wmd require the following equip_ut bavin various capacities: 17 tr asformers; 20
switcbgear installations; 42 iolating swtches; 231 disconnectiag switches; 28 current
transformers; 32 surge arresters; 12 control panels and various support structures, all at an
estimated local cost of Z$530*000 and foreign cost of Z$2,860,000, a total of Z$3,390,000.
Additional Materials for 33 kV to 11 kV to 390/225 V Distribution Metworks
'Approximately 3 years rcquirents
Item                                             Unit                Approximnte Quantity
Conductor 25, 50, 75 and 100 .m2 uninsulated      km                          3,600
onnductor 25, 50, 70 and 100 mm2 insulated        in                          1,000
Conductor 3 wire plus lightlng                    km                            500
Earth wire                                        hn                            100
Pin insulators and pins                           NO.                        30,000
Disc insulators                                  i*.                         40,000
Surge arresters                                   No.                        10,000
Wood poles                                        NO.                        14,000
Cross Arms                                         O.                        18,000
Combined circuit breaker and mater box            NO.                       50,000
Transformers:
Various ratings:
33/LV                                           NO.                           100
25, 50, 100, 200 and 300 kVA                    Mo.                         1,400
33 kV metering units                              MO.                            60
33 kV auto-reclosers                              Mo.                           60
33 kV isolators                                   No.                           120
Plus miscellaeo: rods, clamps,. tap,
nails, paint, etc.



- 84 -
AMmli 4.3
1~T~Y3
Transmdssion Lines
330 kV line Iriangle-Tokwm (150 mm2)
Item                Unit Quantity       local   Fbreign  Tbtal
-  --(Z$ thousands)
length                 kma       150           -        -        -
Tbwmrs                 No.       350       4.332      795   5,127
¢onductors             km        900       3,465    4,773   8,238
Insulators             No.    21,000           -      954      954
Earthlure              km        300         520      159      679
Hardware ,*
Brection & Transport   Sum        -        4,851    1 ,377   6,228
Total                                13,168   8,058   21,226
=         -
*fittin,gs, counterpoise etc.
330 kV line iWarren-o   Sherwood (150 m2)
Items               Unit  lEMnti        tocal   Foreign  Total
(Z$ thousands)
Length                 km        183           -        -        -
Towers                 N6.       458       5,343      980   6,323
Conductors             No.     1,098       4,273    5,887   10,160
Insulators             km     25,620           -    1,170    1,170
zErthuire              No.       549         642      196      838
Erection & Transport   Sum         -       5,983    1,627    7,610
Total                                16,241    9,860   26,101
-   - -;
132 kV Lines (150 m2)
Cdnboyi-Mhangura (55 mn)
Warren-Seki (25 mn)
Nortoo-BiLdurs-MadZiwa (160 km)
Item                  Unit Quatlty        locdl  Foreign  Total
--(Z$ thousands)
Towers                 NO.     3,052       2,904      394    3,298
ocoductors             km      1,221       1,790    1,353    3,143
Insulators             No.    50,604           -      772      772
Earthwire              km        407         307       68      375
Erection & Transport   Sum        -        1,916    1,256    3,172
6,917    3,843   10,760
=zmes      =        =m



- 85 -
ARM  4.3
Page 3 of 3
Wrluhop Bquimt (nt of the Worksbop component).
t for the worksbop would include but not be limited to the following items:
lxcal      Forein       Total
- - (Z$ th us ds-
1. Screw cutting machine, lathes                256       1,330        1,586
radial and vertical drills,
grinders, wsa, ga  cutting
md illIng machbies
2. Shaper, vertical lathe, boring mill           65         370          435
3. Various welding and cutting equipunt          60         350          410
4. Pneumatic drills grinders, wrenches           40         230          270
and compressors
5. 20, 50, and 150 ton hydraulic press           72          66          138
and jacks
6. 100 and 20 ton gantry cranes and             315         395          710
travelling hoists
7. Armature and coil winders                     30          168         198
8. Furnaces, ovens, sand blasting               153           32         185
equipment
9. Ol puification plant                          24         136          160
10. 2 u lathe                                     12          68           80
11. Cutters, milling, tools, drills              200         330          530
Total                                 1,227       3,475       4,702
_m -_
Vehicles
Item                   Quantity            local      Foreign      Total
-(2$ thousand
Passenger cars                 15                 91          119         210
1/2 ton trucks                 20                118         119          237
1 ton trucks                  80                 654         782        1,436
2 ton trucks                   80                875       1,190        2,065
3 and 5 ton trucks            50               1,136       1,394        2,530
7 ton tricks                  100              3,202       4,318        7,520
)btorcycles                    40                 83           68         151
Front-end loaders               3                  -          136         136
Cranes                          2                  -         221          221
Buses (30 and 76 sesters)       6                392          204         596
Street lighting vehicles       10                761         442        1,203
Tractors                       10                741          629       1,370
Tippers                        10                929         697        1,626
Misc. equipment               Sum                  -          221         221
Total                                     8,982      10,540       19,522
-~~~~,.



- 86 -
ANNEX 4.4
POWME II PRDJDCT
Project Financiug Pla
(US$ Mililons)
00_onent      Local Funds                Frl  F                           Total Funds
_EM                ABB          NoS    foland  Local  Foreign  Total
Kariba South        2.0         -       -     21.7             -        2*0    21.7     23.7
Distribution       34.8        24.6     -       -      -       _       34.8    24.6     59.4
Transmission       27.3        -      20.8      -     1.3      -       27.3    22.1    49.4
Workshops           9.3         _ -         -          -       3.0      9.3     3.0      12.3
Vehicles            6.2         3.0             -      -      4.5       6.2     7.5     13.7
Training            1.8         1.8     -      -               -        1.8     1.8      3.6
Operational         2.7        10.6     -      -               -        2.7    10.6     13.3
Sbpport
MIS & Computer      2.4         4.0     -       -      -        -       2.4     4.0      6.4
tg. Services        0.7         -       -       -     2.5      -        0.7     2.5      3.2
Studies                                 -       -     1.2      -         -      1.2      1.2
Subtotal          87.2       44.0   20.8    21.7    5.0      7.5      87.2    99.0    186.2
Taxes               1.9                 -       -      - _              1.9      -       1.9
Total            89.1       44.0   20.8    21.7    5.0      7.5      89.1    99.0    188.1
Interest           36.0        _        _       _      _       _       36.0      -      36.0
duriNg      I
implementation
hwmnt to be  I  125.1         44.0   20.8    21.7    5.0      7.5    125*1    99.0    224.1
financed     j     -           -      _        -                               -



- 87 -
ANNEX 4.5
ZimBABW
POWER II PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Guidellnes for monitoring project lmplementation have been discussed
and agreed with ZESA. Monitoring would focus on progress relative to the target
dates for the major events in the project implementation program.
The principal project implementation steps to be compared with planned
targets are as follows:
-gTarget Dates
Bidding                           Implementa-
Documents    Bid    Contract         tion
Itolect Components              or TOR     OpeniAg Award    Start  Completion
,. Kariba South Uprating         6/88    10/88    12/88       1/89      6/91
2. Distribution Networks         9/88      1/89     3/89      4/89       6/91
3. Transmission Network          10/88     2/89     4/89      5/89       6/91
4. Workshops & Equipment         8/88    12/88      2/89      3/89      12/90
S. Vehicles                      8/88    10/88    12/88       1/89      6/90
6. Manpower & Training           6/88      na       ua        9/88       6/91
7. Operational Support            7/88     na       na        1/89       6/91
8. MIS & Computer Facilities    11/88      3/89     5/89      6/89       6/91
9. Engineering Services           1/88     3/88     5/88      6/88       6/91
10. Studies
- Power Transmission          7/88    10/88    12/88      1/89      12/90
- System Operations          7/88    10/88    12/88       1/89      12/90



- 88 -
ANNEX 4.6
ZIMBAIWI
POWER II PROJECT
ID5D Loan Disbursement Schedule
(USi millions)
Cumulative          Undisbursed
IBRD Fiscal Year          Quarterly          Disbursements         at End of
and Quarter           Disbursements      at End of Quarter          arter
FY89
December 31, 1988         0.4                   0.4                  43.6
March 31, 1989            1.8                   2.2                  41.8
June 30, 1989             2.6                   4.8                  39.2
FY90
September 30, 1989        2.9                   7.7                  36.3
December 31, 1989         3.3                  11.0                  33.0
March 31, 1990            3.5                   14.5                 29.5
June 30, 1990             4.0                  18.5                  25.5
FY91
September 30, 1990        4.4                  22.9                  21.1
December 31, 1990         4.2                  27.1                  16.9
March 31, 1991            4.0                  31.1                  12.9
June 30, 1991             4.0                  35.1                   8.9
FY92
September 30, 1991        1.9                  37*0                   7.0
December 31, 1991         1.7                  38.7                   5.3
March 31, 1992            1.6                  40.3                   3.7
June 30, 1992             1.4                  41.7                   2.3
FY93
September 30, 1992        1.2                  42.9                   1.1
December 31, 1992         1.1                  44.0                   0.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1992



- 89 -
ANNEX 4.7
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Monitoring Guidelines and Performance Indicators
Guidelines for monitoring project implementation performance
have been agreed with ZESA. These guidelines are a series of target dates
for the major events in the project implementation program (Annex 4.5).
Records of selected performance indicators would be maintained
comparing the forecasts against actual results for:
(a) appointment of consultants;
(b) procurement, i.e. bid documents, bid closing, contract award;
(c) construction progress;
(d) progress in training
(e) progress of studies;
(f) energy production; hydro and thermal;
(g) energy imports;
(h) maximum demand (MW);
(i) electricity consumption (GW1h);
(j) system losses (%)
(k) coal and diesel oil consumption in power plants;
(1) number of outages and their duration;
(m) number of consumers by classificatica;
(n) number of expatriates;
(o) average tariff level (cents/kWh) classified in total and by
consumer category;
(p) zates of return on average revalued net fixed assets in
operation, for the sector as a whole;
(q) self-generated funds contributed to construction costs;
(r) operating ratios;
(s) number of days energy revenues outstanding;
(t)  changes in project cost estimates and related financing;
(u) debt-equity ratio;
(v) debt service coverage; and
(w) current ratio



-90 -
AMU 5. 1
ZDA
PNO=lJ  II PnkcJEK:
Projected Ziacow' Stateunsts for Z?euI Jr87-Y93
1986     1997     1988      1989     1990     1991      1992      1993
Onratiog Revlues
total ia1n  of Elctricity             392.22   412.26   406.91   470.82   536.49   583.28   649.24    672.01
Niselluanous Revenues                   0.81     0.82      0.81     0.94      1.07     1.17     1.30       1.34
TOTAL OPiRTINB REVENIE             393.03   413.09   407.72   471.76   537.57   594.43   650.54    473.35
OWetin Expenses
Purehae of Electricity                72.41                        9.44    13.64      1.05
koeration                              54.28    ,3.11   127.39   143.32   142.44   184.25   214.19    244.32
Tranission I Distribution              49.18    58.00    65.98    75.06    85.31    96.85   109.96    124.84
6eWal                                   1.61      1.85     2.04     2.24      2.46     2.71     2.98       3.28
Overheads                               9.34    10.76    11.84    13.02    14.33    15.76    17.34        19.07
Dpreciation                            71.0    70.75    78.89    97.58   106.54   117.08   129.40    148.10
TOTAL. OPERATINS iNVERSES          259.12   214.48   28U.14   340.68   384.98   419.70   473.87    541.40
NET OPERATIN  INCOuE               133.91   198.60   121.58   131.08   152.58   164.74   176.67    131.75
Other Expmem  6 Revues
Interest Expents                       52.71    74.36    81.17    68.62    63.78    57.64    57.99        68.50
Foreid   Euchan,. L4sr                 28.23      5.32     7.76     9.21    10.42    11.57    12.75       13.99
Les: lIterist Inc..                     9.66     7.60      6.09     4.56      3.04     3.31     1.51
Total Other Esp. & Rbvnues          71.28    74.08    82.84    73.27    71.16    65.89    69.23        82.49
NET IMOWE                           62.63   124.52    39.74    57.81    81.42    98.85   107.44         9.26



-91 -                                         AME 5.2
ZIMBABWE
POWER I1 PROJECT
ProJected Asset Revaluation and Revenue Schedule for ZESA FY87-1T93
ASSET REVALUATION 4Revised: Sept. 28, 1987)       1987     1989     1989      1990     1991     1992       1993
Inflation factor                                    9.82      6.0?     6.02      6.02     6.82     6.82       6.82
Beginning Balance - Asset                       2358.48  2629.83  3252.58  3552.04  3902.67  4313.35   4936.61
Revaluation Adjustment                            231.13   157.79   195.15  2b3.12   265.38   293.31    335.69
Addition                                           40.22   464.96   104.30   137.51   140.30   329.95    108.,99
Retirement                                          0.00     0.00     0.00      u.00     0.00     0.00       0.00
Ending Balance                                   2629.83  3252.58  3552.04  3902.67  4313.35  4936.61   5381.29
Beginning Balance - Accu. Depr.                  f9f.57  1168.29  1317.27  1493.99  1690.08  1922.09   2182.19
Revaluation 4djustment                             97.96    70.10    79.04    99.63   114.93   130.70    148.39
Depreciation 43.01)                                70.75    78.89    97.58   106.56   117.00   129.40    148.10
Ending 6alance                                   1168.28  1317.27  1493.89  1690.08  1922.09  2182.19   2478.68
Beg. Ral. Revaluation Surplus                    805.02   938.19  1025.89  1142.00  1265.49  1415.95   1578.55
Additions                                         133.17    87.69   116.12   123.49   150.46   162.61    187.30
End Balance                                       938.19  1025.89  1142.00  1265.49  1415.95  1578.55   1765.86
Revenue Schedule                        1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991      1992      191
Billings tBuh)
Domestic-Notered                      857.60   883.t3   909.83   937.12   965.24   995.16  1026.01   1057.81
Domestic-Load L.mited                 376.70   389.88   403.53   417.65   432.27   447.40   463.06    479.2V
Commercial-under 300kVA              1365.19  1434.86  1487.39  1556.66  1613.00  1670.49  1730.02   1791.68
Commrcial-under 5WVA                 1233.49  1304.43  1354.64  1393.26  1445.75  1491.74  1551.59   1607.38
Commercial-lndustrial-over 5NA       1354.20  1435.45   757.29   787.19   817.10   846.52   876.99    908.51
Special Agreement                    2515.04  2665.94  3507.82  3646.63  3785.20  3921.46  4062.64   4208.09
Total                             7702.22  8113.89  8420.50  8738.53  9058.56  9378.77  9710.31  10053.60
Tariff- (IZc/kwh)
Domestic-Metered                        6.72      6.78     6.67     7.92      8.71     9.15  ' 9.84        9.04
Domestic-Load LimIted                   5.62      5.72     5.63     6.22      6.84     7.18     7.72       7.72
Cowmercial-under 300kVA                 7.30     7.35      7.24     7.79      8.57     9.00     9.68       9.68
Commercial-ander 5VA                   5.44      5.64     5.55     6.27      6.90     7.25     7.79       7.79
Coosercial-Industrial-over 5VA         4.86      4.82     4.35     4.69      5.16     5.42     5.83       5.83
Special Agreement                       3.21      3.07     3.07     3.43      3.77     3.96     4.26       4.26
Revenues
Domestic-Metered                       57.66    59.89    60.69    74.22    84.07    91.06   100.96    104.09
Domestic-Load Limited                  21.18    22.30    22.72    25.98    29.57    32.12    35.75        37.00
Comercial-under 300kVA                 99.62   105.46   107.69   121.26   138.23   150.34   167.47    173.43
Commercial-under 5MVA                  67.07    73.57    75.18    87.36    99.76   108.59   120.87    125.21
Comercial-lndustrial-over 5NA          65.89    69.19    32.94    36.92    42.16    45.88    51.13        52.97
Special Agreemnt                       80.80    81.84   107.69   125.08   142.70   155.29   173.07    179.30
Total                              392.22   412.26   406.91   470.82   536.49   583.28   649.24    672.01
u=u    u:=   8i==    mu::   gas=    azu:m   nuu. 



- 92 -
AMUU S.~
ZIIOQV
O   II P1OJECT
Lrolected Fuds flows for ZUA FT87-1T93
1987     1988f    19l  I    99 0     1991    1M92       1993
Internal  eeration
Iht lnoo"  before Int t Elpu                  200.89   119.90   126.43   145.20   156.49   165.43    117.76
DepreKiation                                   70.75       Y8    97.50   106.56   117.08   129.40    148.10
Echanpe Lass                                    5.32      7.76     9 21    10.42    11.57    12.75      13.99
La Rayants                                     21.52      9.51     9.51     9.51     9.54     9.45       0.00
Funds Availabe fro  lot. Bon.              298.48   216.06   242.73   271.70   294.68   317.03    279.84
Oerating Ruiremuts
Debt service
Internt                                      76.36    81.17    68.62    63.78    57.64    57.99       8.50
Principal                                    127.08   158.62    94.47   102.57    93.64    04.8    127.1
Totl Debt Srice                            203.44   239.99   163.09   146.35   151.21   162.67    195.6O
IncresefDerease) in Non-Cash
Warking Capital                                  28.65    -7.09   -21.36   -18.40      6.40     7.37      ^4.39
Total Owerating Requiremnts                232.09   232.90   141.74   147.96   157.69   170.04    191.20
FMNDS AVAIlAGLE FROAN IPEATISOS             66.38   -16.84   100.99   123.74   136.9"   146."       80.64
Construction Program
Other Constriction                             57.22    20.03    22.44    15.85         72.38    86.37  n.54
Mag  7 & 8                                      0.00      3.89     0.00     0.00    42.78   134.34    329.44
Poer 2                                                           130.30   136.11    52.90    52.90
Thereal Station                                                   22.33    29.52    29.57    4.66
Rural Electritic6tian                                    11.49    10.14     9.64    11.92    15.05      19.40
IO                                              6.96     0.42      4.33    12.08    21.84    29.93     36.04
Total Construction Progras                  64.18    35.83   189.54   203.20   231.41   323.25    494.42
To be Financed                                   -2.20    52.67    88.55    79.47    94.42   176.26    395.78
Financed by:
Loans                                          56.02      9.99    91.17   106.89   121.53   194.97    319.93
Capital Contributions                           3.00      5.17     1.68     2.20     3.34     3.85      4.43
Brants                                                   2.23      1.96     1.17     2.42     2.82      3.84
Total Finaced                               59.42    11.39    94.81   110.96   127.29   193.44    328.20
Increase(Decrense) in Cash                       61.22   -3528      6.26    31.49    32.87    17.38    -67.58
CAsh Beginning ot Year                           43.82   105.03    69.75    76.01   107.50   140.37    157.75
aaaaaa-a- sa-----            a------a--
CASH END OF YEAR                           105.04    69.75    76.01   107.P0   140.37   157.75      90.1W
#=8=*  trU=S  3UUUZs  *ZZ Z           UtZE   ZEZ    S



- 93                                               S.4
POW  II PROJECT
Projected Balance Sheoez for ZEIA Mf7-I93
1984    1987     1988    1989       99  1991    1992           1993
ASSET
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                 2358.48  2U29.83  3252.58  3552.04  3902.67 4313.35  4936.41   581.29
Lss: ccus. Dpreciation            "9.57  11a.28  1317.27  1493.89  1490.08  1922.09  2182.19   2476.41
Nit Plant in Srvice             1358.91  1461.55  1935.31  2058.15  2212.59  2391.26  2754.42  2902.41
Plant Under Construction          455.34   479.30    50.10  135.42  201.11   287.23   280.53    655.96
bt Fixed Asets                  1814.25  1940.85  1985.48  2193.57  2413.70 2678.49  3034.95   35508.57
Other Assets
Exchaage Fluctuation              132.91   193.89   230.29  2*0.52   209.17  ',18.74  349.78   384.72
lnvestats                          57.03   47.52    38.01    29.50    19.99     9.45     0.00      0.00
Loans Receivablns                  12.01     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00        0.00    0.00      0.00
Total Other ssets                201.95  241.41   260.30  289.02   300.16  328.19  349.78    384.72
=rrent Assets
Cash                               43.92   105.03    69.75    76.01   107.50   10.37   157.75    90.17
Accounts Rceivable                106.13   111.53   114.1    99.07    86.01    93.51   104.09    107.74
Stores                             34.83    39.45   48.79    53.28    58.54    64.70    74.05      0.72
Total Current ksets              186.78   256.01   232.70  228.36  252.05   29.58   335.08    278.63
*  TOTAL ASSETS                     2202.98  2438.27 2486.49  2710.94 2973.91  3305.26  3720.61  422f.91
EUUITY AND L'48ILITIES
Equity
Capital Investoent                296.96  29.96   307.36   311.00   315.07   320.83  327.50   335.7
Retained Earnings                 151.71   276.23   314.97   372.77  454.20   553.05  660.49   709.75
Revaluation Surplus               805.02   938.19  1025.89  1142.00  1265.4  1415.95  1578.55   1765.86
Total Equity                    1253.69  1514.39  1648.21  1925.78  2034.76  2289.03  25S6.54   2811.37
Lonq-tore Debt
Loans                             085.54  880.77   776.10  912.23  855.63   924.64  1050.73   19.49
Les: Current Maturities           127.08   158.82    94.47   102.57    93.64   104.68   127.10    119.44
Net Long-Tere Debt               758.46   721.95   *81.63  709.66   761.98  019.97  923.63   1174.03
Total Invested Capital          2012.15  2236.33  2329.84  2535.44 2796.74 3109.79 3490.17  3985.40
Current Liabilities
Acounts Payable                    63.75   43.12   62.17   72.93   83.53   90.79   103.34    119.05
Current Maturities                127.08   158.02   94.47   102.57   93.64   104.68   127.10   119.44
Total Current Liabilities        190.83  201.94   156.65   175.50  177.17  195.44  230.44   236,51
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES      2202.9e 2438.27  2486.49  2710.94 2973.91  3305.24  3720.61  4221.91
2s:ss:s   #&=Sass  3a3:3Z3  33333:3  3sAW    S333 a3 ss333   33333



- 94 -
ANNEX 5.5
Page 1 of 3
ZIMABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Notes and Assumptions for the Pro ected ninancial Statements for ZESA
,ales and Revenues
Sales of Electricity
1.        Sales for each consumer category are based on the demand forecast
and appear in Annex 5.2. Revenue forecasts assume the amalgamation of
the electricity departments o!S the municipalities on July 1, 1988. These
revenues assume the identical provision for the amalgamation of Bulawayo
and Mutare as was agreed for the amalgamation of Harare and Gweru: a 5S
toduction in tariffs to compensate for a 5X surcharge initiated by the
Municipal Governments. Revenues reflect the introduction of a national
tariff July 1, 1988 with a 101 increase over the rate structure initially
proposed and an additional 101 increase effective July 1, 1989, a 51
Increase effective July 1, 1990 and a 7.5 increase effective July 1, 1991.
Miscellaneous Revenues
2.        Miscellaneous revenues are projected at 0.21 of Sales of
Electricity based on actual past experience. The effect of the proposed
compensation package (para. 3.07) is not reflected in the financial
projections as details of the salary scales to be revised and the extent of
revision was not as yet available and, as it is mnticipated that ttese
revisions will be applicable to only a proportion of ZESA's positions, its
overall effect on expense levels will not be ¶aterial.
Operating Expenses
Purchase of Electricity
3.        The cost of purchases of electricity are based on imports of
power from Zambia calculated in connection with demand requirements arrived
at in the development of a long-term least-cost investment program.
Purchases have been reflected only when Zimbabwe's generation capability is
not capable of meeting Zimbabwe's demand.
Generation
4.        Generation expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs of
generation provided by ZESA.
Transmission and Distribution
7.        Transmission and distribution expenses are based on projected
energy sales at FY86 cost/kWh inflated by the local inflation factor,
applied to kin sold,



- 95 -
ANsE 5.5
Page 2 of 3
General and Overheads
8.        General and overhead expenses are projected to reflect the FY86
experience increased annually by local inflation.
Depreciation
9.         Depreciation Ls computed from a lover rate then the experienced
depreciation rate of 4X to compensate for the fully depreciated assets of
the municipalities applied to the estimated revalued asset base.   The
revalued asset base is determined by taking the base at June 30, 1986
developed by Coopers and Lybrand during the Energy Pricing Study and
increasing this valuation by estimated additions to plant  In operation
during the period plus an estimated inflation valuation which reflects the
average of local and international Inflation rates during the m87-93
period. The average of local and internatlonal inflation Is used sice
capital additions, on average, were composed of 502 foreign costs and 50S
local costs. The related details of these computations are sbown In Annex
S.2.
Interest Expense
10.       Interest expense Is projected from the terso of existing debt and
the anticipated terms for new debt.
Foreign Exchange Loss
11.          The item of Exchange Fluctuations on the Balance Sheet Ls
projected from the estimated e"schange rate (Z$/US$) applied to outstanding
foreign debt during the FY87-93 period.  Foreign exchange loss Is the
amortization of this asset over the debt repayment period.   Thls Is
consistent with accounting practices adhered to by ZKA and acceptable to
its external auditors.
Interest Income
12.        Interest income reflects interest earned oan investments during
the PY87-93 period based on experienced rates.
Revenue Schedule
13.        Billings are taken from the mission's forecast of energy sales
(Annex 2.4) which are reclassified by ZESA's proposed new consumr
categories. Tariffs are ZESA's preliminary proposals for the new national
uiform tariff.
Construction Program
14.        The construction program In the Funds now Statoent Is taka
frm Annex 2.6 in which the component Engineering Serviae  is 1Icorpotated
into the new Generation Plant component.



- 96 -                 ANMEX 5.5
Page 3 of 3
Balance Sheet
Fixed Assets
15.       Fixed Assets reflect the construction program during the period
FY87-93, the estimated commissioning of plant and the revaluation of assets
as detailed in para. 9 and Annex 5.2.
Exchange Fluctuation
16.       See paragraph 11 above.
Investments and Loans Reteivable
17.       Investments and loans receivable reflect the redemption of assets
which existed at June 30, 1986 over a six year period. No additions to
these assets are assumed during the FY87-93 period.
Accounts Receivable
18.       Accounts receivable reflect the portion of sales which have been
estimated to remain in accounts receivable at the end of each fiscal year
based on ZESA's expected collection performance. The number of revenues -
days estimated to remain in accounts receivable are:
June 30, 1986                         101 days actual
June 30, 1937                         100 days
June 30, 1988                          90 days
June 30, 1989                          75 days
June 30, 1990 and thereafter           60 days
Stores
19.         Stores values ara projceted at 1.5% of the value of Plant in
Service based on past experience.
Capital Investment
20.       Additions to Capital Investment reflect estimated grants of funds
for construction during the FY87-93 period.
Revaluation Surplus
21.       Revaluation surplus is the equity item created by the revaluation
of assets (para. 9 and Annex 5.2).
Long-term Debt and Current Maturities
22.       Long-term Debt is projected to reflect the terms of existing debt
and the anticipated terms for new debt. Current Maturities are the value
of the subsequent years' estimated principal repayments.
Accounts Payable
23.       Accounts payable at the end of each fiscal year are valued at 30Z
of cash operating expenses of that year in accordance with past experience.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 1 of 3
Z1MBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Economic Justification for Uprating Kariba South Power Station
1. Basis for justification
The justification for the uprating of Kariba South Station has
the same basis as the determination of the least-cost development program
for meeting forecast power demand in Zimbabwe as described in Annex 2.5.
The least-cost program is determined in the Annex to be the rehabilitation
of the old thermal stations (by 1992) followed by the third stage of Hwange
with the addition of 440 MW by 1995. This program also involves the need
for power imports from Zambia to 1996. The programs evaluated in Annex 2.5
included Kariba South uprating.   The identified least-cost program is
compared with the same program that excludes Kariba South uprating to
evaluate this component. Imports from Zambia have to be increased to meet
demand in the without project case.
2. Economic Costs
The economic costs of Kariba South uprating are the incremental
capital costs for the uprating works themselves. Any opportunity cost for
replacing power from the Kariba urits in the power system while the units
are out of service for uprating are allocable to the costs of major
rehabilitation which is already a committed undertaking which would be
carried out simultaneously. The financial cost of uprating is estimated to
be Z$23.5 million in mid-1987 price terms (Annex 4.2 - Detailed Estimate of
Base Costs - excluding 'other components"). The estimated economic cost is
thus Z$30.0 million with a 30X foreign exchange premium (Annex 2.5).
3. Economic Benefits
The economic benefits of Kariba South uprating are derived from
the a7ailability of an additional 84 MW of capacity from the units and an
improvement in productive efficiency of the units, which ZESA's consultants
(Merz and McLellan) estimate will yield an additional 88 GWh/year on
average.   The effects of the additions in the least-cost development
program is to lower power system costs by (i) reducing the need for imports
from Zambia by 42 MW in 1991 and 84 MW in 1992 to 1994; and (ii) displacing
88 GWh/year of energy from the marginal source of energy in the system,
which according to the merit order of energy costs will be Hwange Station
(Annex  2.5,  page 8).   The marginal L3urce at Hwange would be  from
joint-product coal.   Any delay in completing the uprating work would
diminish the economic benefits of this work since most of the benefits are
savings in costs up to the commissioning of the additional units at Hwange,
which are required by 1995 at the latest, irrespective of whether the units
at Kariba South are uprated.



-98 -                        AN=EX 6.1
Page 2 of 3
4. Evaluation of Costs and Benefits
The evaluation of costs and benefits for Kariba South upratitg is
detailed on the last page in this Annex and summarized below.
At 5X discount rate (Z$ million):
Present Value of Benefits                         48.05
Present Value of Costs                            24.22
Net Present Value                                 23.82
The evaluation shows that the proposed uprating is justified economically
in the context of least-cost power system development. The component Is
Justified up to the equalizing discount rate for benefits and costs,
estimated to be about 221.



EOIt E011il 1111 KIII Oft 6 tIg
VW   adg   t 3                        1917    11    lip        190    199       392       93    14    199          19%     n7    no         899     SW            P    tw"     fOr EVaUl  cm
hrplas/Shtf4ll fs Itiatiag Facilitin hlatiw to Syt Iulntu                                                                            *                            IM  FM=   MN            2
3iom BMW  (/ so                        415      50    -         4211    -2      -267      3"     -#       -5       41    -02        779    -9    -2
twv  l1eft ..                         4    2 51        11      1504 I     41     475    -275    -5     -12U    -3434   -21         -27     -3103   -32                M  .mg. mbs t.Nm         2.6
1M_ Hill £-WI   L          1T3    lgriba liah tpratIFq              1919 -9tb hambil £1.56Od lierul SatM                                    12                    lap   Twilais of no
11 on tWapts fr Zmia fre* 199h  to   "e  to IM                                   ft.,. Stw  2-2                        199s                  taiff  t  U  twifl
lW Capacity to s..)                  t1lV    fiU       19       tW      If9t    tf92     1M       39W     19f      39      19       t9      199    230                        bumS    t p       1.t0
-   -                                                                                                                                  -" Cp-  -   - -- 1.00
1w1ba ao    l gratio                     0       0        0       0       42   11          3       14       IN        I      3                so       a
so Ilas tfrnr  ZWk                       0       0       50     215      US        e       66    t13             0        0       0        0       0   a            3il frdtia rul"       o
ImbabltAe of %uW )'                                                               1Wt     241  2W         .270              2 t70    2    70 13                   we US   faki to ha cu   u     L.
loop Slp 2-2                                                                                               419    U4l       419      43      415      43
on  ewptss                                                                                                                            10      gO      170         Capitd ad htiaty Facts
4-   -S __                                                                           -       -
rpIasJbrll                              Is5     so        S           * I          1        2        1     21       144      7                        J   J            bbO _ EI                 1.0
on  tarp tCaaility (3  s.O.S                                                                                                                                       _as   #a   2-2               1.60
_ 1.umls  Amilit    11.00
Itrits  twolraU                          0       D        0       0        4      a        U       a        a        s       i        a       a        U
gmlopstafroed"                                   0      134       3    146         5      51     1t65        0       0               o S       0       0
abaolitato Md Th.3s                                                              440      SO      106    1to       100     to6    106       16       3
_a-p Sl    22                                                                                       0    2*        2746    246    246    246    VS
g   lawts                                0       0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0       61     5        l0 2
plos1tull                            4m       27 1          1           2350   t46       12        39  5?t         2155    14    I                   m83t    16
F18M3    15 11T   K£13L IPTt 3 ha lapwts fro  Zmbia fee lIhto 199* to 22DE                            ha lata so Tumi SlaSsin               199
4mp Map 2-2                           1995s
ha Capaity US     C.)                  97    1t1o    91        399      59       192    1m        1m9      995    199      1        1       19t9    200 
On ltwrts fe      bi O* 0                        0      IS      215      207      94  1            217       0        e '0             0       0       4
kkabilitat, Old Swa1s                                                             too     243      2n0    270       20               2e 270  23       VO
_gm    Slap 2-2                                                                                            419      45      u1       4101    413      4
WA lbpsr                                                                                                                     20       95      75      2S
hrplullr tfuhl                          15    -s                  4 S1 *1                   2        1      33 tS          -6          4       4        I
ha hwug Capability (3m s.o.1
dalla  flit .SU      1      22.31
No lpwts frnm a     ia                           0     3334    l3o      113    71        34    1 911                          0 e              0       a
haabilitab md Tharas la                                                          40  i tO    10e 0        16       3060    100    1i6       100    11tO
wasp  lp 2-2                                                                                              2746    27       24       2746    2746    2746   to l42atli .) ttU           3.0
ha~~ ~ -ael                                                                                                                        107 -5                     4               -       - -_i 
bplus/Usttahl                         49   20   W      3301    23M      2654    sag      384      2044    243      206     362      11i       73     13                    tash                2t.u2
lacruata  System Coats Iw Stbot laes Nth) Kariba 16.1ratiq Cams-
at tA        al    35.22
o kt              b frm  t Pih _uUD                       0    0    42 11                  91    S           0    0    2D   IS    a    W
ha01cd Iql  ts  ax.h_  ustbw           11  WIU Jy         0       0    9105    96e    910    961             0       0    2230    9           24    924m
DisplacKd bf§Y            (Ml                            15      44      111               Be      s 8113                    a        a       BB       8 PWto tllWhf2billis  OtD    L5OO6
Eage uits ItZ#boalt a01*   all                           to   xi   572  572  572  572   m    572  S   572    2   52- 
lMt huaits oS 54ratia    IIOtual        0        0       IS     266    5377   101#2   t0122   10112         72      52    2140   1t42      142%    I29%                    hits                .4X
keoit Costs of r  time tlu               0       0    IM2          13u  tM                                                                                                 Cas                 an2
IU bwg  ra  * ibri Upratimp diism  Im             s _  fr  Jinp ct codt lowr DW            .                                     Ibt ho   galae
2t 1 b  tu_etd  I1  of twr§ cipty drial Wrail si    rcdidot dith rab"lJtti  ofP tb e ib.-
tt lt bofib t  rW        WrIO 2et-20  W  tS     U MIT tt MD  101IHb.



ZUWM POO 2 NOW-RDIN VILTO UMMM AR MMMM POo 0001   MM CM V NO
m m wwm sxr LM
I  TLUNtsum SUBSTATIONS           t                          msmwrm  10-11011011                                                                               I
I -  :                                                                                   CNMI rAm  tmum  som 011111 GNU& 3
:Anw& CRITP. wzm MM t DM 611011011 MM C14-00 wrivA am 8 Blow MM IML M. ammnmly am am M fa La"
capita tnt(iftbolit      t                                                                                                                 I                                            t
IIW  pric"tu"ll              310    250    110   1260 3    39       43      0      39      0      It      29     39     5$      53      4 1    29    329    1112      St    ltz    W   I
FaMp               400    M       M      5W   1   173    M       249    173    262    III    2W       113    W       W       39 t   2W      M       133     60      82    M    :
total          1   710    9M      710   &M   1   212    245    2"       212    30      122    M       212    30      $40     431   20B    50        313    142    I"      MO I
Coadtant kbW&            1.                                                                                                                I                                            I
FM             I    M       M       a      26%t   ton    lm      lea    ton       K      a    Ion       01     ot   IOU    tooll   UK         a       ol   ton    son    tout
FT"            1    301    3U      M       4311     a      ot      ot     ot   ton    ton       ot   im        ot      ot     all      a    tm        GI     ot     01      at
FM             I     a       R     3K      int      a      01      a      a       a      a      ox      ox   IOU       a      at       a      St   IOU       a       ot     011
Ecomiasic Cost taltbool                                 t                                                                                  I                                            1.
Total          1   014   1107    SU    84151   257    M          363    237            151    355    257    415    41S       9 S   =        612    MD    M         213    7412
PV to "M   LOZI   720    9%       72    UO 1   233    270    329    233    3V          ISO    322    222    341    V6        6 I   322    5%        20     143    195    672:
Din We usp.costly 0.521   4.1    5.3    4.3   42.11   1.3    1.3    1.6    1.3    i.9    4.0    1.0    1.3    LI    2.1    0.31   1.9    L2    1.7    0.2    1.1    LI t
fccomic Life tyms)       1    25      25     25      25 1    25      25     25      25     25     25      25     25      25     25      25 1    25     25      25     25      n      25 1
PY OIN Costs to FM  e LOXI    47      64     so    4m 9    ts        17     21      Is     22      9      21      Is     24     24       s 1    21     v       20      t      12     43 9
listbu)                                                 I                                                                                 3                                             t
Capacity of In Pleat(N) I  2LO   17.0    U    110.0 t   4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.5    4.5    4.5   12.0    4.5    4.31   4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.3    4.51
FY1986 Load on Float0l)  1  10.2    7.4    4.0   45.01   0.1    1.6    0           2.4    1.6    1.6    1.6    LO    L6    Lt    0.11   L4    1.6    O-D    1.2    1.0    LO!
hma Low bodb             I  LOI  L02  LK  &KI  LK  LK  19.02  LK  L02  LU  &U  0.01  7.4  LO  LUI  LU  LU  LU  LOR  LK  9.00
LW   a Pluttliflis FM"  t   2.2    1.5    4.9    9.7 9   LZ    0.6    1.8    0.3    0.3    6.6    0.4    0.9    t.?    0.6    0.2 I   0.3    U                0.2    0.3    0.2    0.3 t
I"I t   2.8    IA       1.1   12.4 I   0.2    0.9    2.4    0.1    0.4    0.0    6.5    1.2    2.3    LO    0.2 1   LI    0.4    0.2    0.3    0.3    0.4 I
lioutemal to        IM   I   &3    2.4    1.4   JS.3 S   0.3   IL#    2.7    LO    LS    Lf    0.7    1.5    LO    1.0    LS I   0.8    LS    IL3    6.4    &$    0.3 I
capacity ol replaod IM   1   4.2    LO    1.6   50.3 1   0.3    1.1    2.7    1.0    L7    1.1    0.8    1.9    3.4    M               L3 I   1.0    0.7    0.3    0.5    M          LI I
plant,19"I to FV86  19" 1   4.9    3.3    1.9   61.3 1   0.4    1.4    LI    1.1    LB    1.4    1.0    LS    4.0    1.3    0.4 I   1.1    LO    6.4    L&    LS    0.91
judoidth r"Aoino  IM    I   5.6    M        2.2   64.2 1   6.4    1.4    L?    1.3    0.9    1.6    1.1    2.5,   4.7    1.5    064 1   1.3    0.9    0.4    6.1    L6    0.9 t
owkiog life to FM) 1996 1   6.4    4.4    LS   61.0 t   0.3    1.9    2.7    1.3    1.0    1.9    LS    LS    L4    t.?    LS t   LS    t-0    0.3    LI    0.6    1.1 t
I"I 1  17.4   12.0    6.0  10.0 9   M          LI    4.5    4.1    2.7    LI    LO    4.5   11.9    4.5    1.4 1   4A             LI    1.4    LI    1.7    Li 1
19" 1  IL3   12.6    7.2  116.0 1   1.4    4.0    4.5    4.3    2.9    4.0    L2    4.3   IL$    4J               4.4 1   4.3    LV    1.4    L2    1.0    2.3 t
19" :  19.2   13.2    7.5  110.0 I   1.3    4.4    4.3    4.5    3.0    4.4    3.4    4.5   ILO    4.5    to$ 8   4.5    LO    1.5    2.3    1.9   Al. 5 1.
2000 1  20.2   W        7.9  110.0 I   1.4    4.3    4.3    4.3    L2    4.3    Lk    4.5   ILO    4.3    1.6 I   4.3    L2    1.6    L4    2.0    M :
2001 t  21.2   14.6    U    110.0 I   1.7    4.5    4.5    4.3    U          4.5    LI    4.5   ILO    4.3    t.? 1   LS    3.3    1.7    2.5    Li    2.9
ZM   1  22.3   W        &S  HLO I   1.7    4.5    4.3    4.3    LS    4.5    4.1    4.5   ILO    4.3    1.13   4.5    LS    1.7    2.6,   L2    LZ
2M   I  2S.4   16.0    L3  ISLO I   1.8    4.5    4.5    4.5    V            4.3    4.3    4.3   12.0    LS    1.9 1   U          7% 7    1.0    2.9    :.S    L!
204 9  24.5   16.9    LS  110.0 I   1.9    4.3    4.3    4.3    3.9    4.3    4.5    4.3   tLO    4.5    1.9 '   4.3    3.9    1.9    2.9    L 4    30.8
ZM   :  2L#   17.0    LS  110.0 1   2.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    LO    4.5    4.5    4.5   ILO    4.5    2.01   4.5    4.0    LO    3.0    2.5    4.1
2006 9  25.0   17.0    LS  110.0 I   Li    4.3    4.5    4.3    4.2    4.3    4.3    4.5   12.0    4.3    2.11   4.3    4.2    Li    3.2    2.7    4.5
2007 :  25.0   V.O    LS  110.0 9   2.2    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.3    4.5   12.0    4.5    L21   LS    4.5    2.2    1.3    2.8    4.3
2M      25.0   17.0    LS  110.0 I   2.3    LS    4.3    4.3    LS    4.3    4.3    4.5   12.0    4.5    LS:   4.5    4.5    2.3    3-S    2.9    4.5
20"     25.0   17.0    LS  110.0 :   L5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.5    4.5    4.5   12.0    4.5    2.5 1   4.5    4.5    2.3    3.7    3.1    4.5.
2010    25.0   t7.0    LS  110.0 :   2.6    4.5.   44         4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.3   12.0    4.3    2.6 1   4.5    4.5    2.6    3.9    3.2    4.5
2011 1  25.0   17.0    LS  110.0 I   2.7    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    4.5    4.3    4.5   12.0    4.5    L7 1   4.5    LS    2.7    4.1    3.4    4.5
DU t  23.0   V.O    4.3  ULO 1   2.8    4.3    4.5    4.3    4.5    4.5    4.3    LS   12.0    4.5    2.8 1   4.3    4.5    2.1    4.2    1.6    4.3
2013 1  2LO   17.0    LS  110.0 I   3.0    4.5    4.5    4.5    LS    4.5    4.5    4.5   12.0    4.5    3.0 I   4.5    4.5    3.0    4.5    L?    4.3 1
2014 1  25.0   17.0    LS  110.0 t   3.1    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3    LS    LS   12.0    4.5    Lt 1   4.5    LS,   Li    4.3    3.9    4. 3
2015 1  25.0   17.0    L5  HLO I   3.3    4.3    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.3   ILQ    4.5    U   1   4.3    4.5    LS    4.3    4.1    4.5
2016 I  25.0   17.0    L5  110.0        3.3    4.3    4.3    4.5    4.5    0.3    4.3    4.5   12.0    4.1    LS 1   4.3    4.3    3.3    4.3    4.1    4.3
PV Usk to FWND0 LOt: 224.7  IF;.12  01.5 HILY 1  2L4   4LS   S4oS   4510   V.4   45.3   40.8   $0.2  12LA   W                        2L4 I  4LO   VA    120. 4   30.2   2LS   33.6 I
PW to FM   of beforred bst A* No Mast b FM   by b-mir4l                                                                                    I
bpland 0180MIlthoul Lftl   30        M       141   IM    1    26     2      36             51     St      St     64    179      90      26 1   124      0      41      62     32         I
of cod% to Fm(1"Aw           1   415    W   W      U36 1   222    23b    I"        tll    297     0      M       173    10     311      26 1   2W      4"     M              IS      U4 t
Image, toweemotal        I                              I                                                                                  I                                             t
kwAdc CestfIS/Wyl LM          1.0    U      7.9    4.4 1  3469    Lt    M          &S    Lt    1.9    1.2    3.4    IJ         &I    1.3 1   4.9   M4   Ml    SoO    6.1   iLt I



- 101 -
ANNEX 6.3
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Average Economic Cost of Power from the Distribution Components
1.        The  distribution  components  are  part  of  ZESA's  continuous
development program for the low voltage part of Its system, and the
components are scheduled to take up the development required between FY88
and  FY91.    The  approach  to  its justification  is  to  show  that  the
formulation of the component  is cost-effective.   This is achieved by
showing that the average economic cost of power from this component is less
than the estimated standard for the average economic cost of low voltage
distribution derived in the Energy Pricing Study.
2.        The economic benefit of this component is the incremental demand
that can be served as a result of this development, estimated to be the
increase in demand at low voltage over the period FY88 to FY92.   The
oenefit will last for the average economic life of the equipment provided
under this component, estimated to be 13 years.
3.        Low voltage consumers consist of all consumers in the domestic
categories and those consumers in other categories that are classified as
having a load of less than 300 kVA in ZESA's new tariff classification.
These consumers are taken to comprise the following proportions of all
consumers classified by economic category: mining - 10%; industry - 6%;
agriculture - 90X; commerce and government - 80%. The forecast increase in
demand served at low voltage ts from 2805 GWh in FY88 to 3214 GWh in FY92
(Annex 2.4).
4.        The average coincident after diversity load factor with system
peak demand of low voltage consumers as a group is estimated to be 0.63.
The increase in demand served from the proposed low voltage component is
equal to (3214-2805)/(8.76 x 0.63) = 74.1 KW. The present value of this
benefit from FY92 for 15 years and discounted to 1987 at 5% - 769/1.22
632 MW.
5.        The estimated cost of the low voltage components (11 kV to
390/225 V in Annex 4.2) is Z$72.90 million in mid 1987 price terms, of
which about two thirds is for rehabilitation of existing capacity and one
third is for new capacity. The allocable cost for meeting new demand is
thus Z$24.3 million. An exchange rate of Z$1.70/US$ was used to convart
foreign costs.   Thus, the economic cost at the shadow exchange rate of
Z$2.08 /US$ used in evaluating the development programs (Annex 2.5), is
Z$27.1 million. Assuming that this cost is incurred in equal proportions
over the three years FY89, FY90 and FY91, the present value of the economic
cost discounted to FY87 at 5% is Z$24.7 million.
6.        The average incremental cost of power from the low voltage
components is thus - 24.7 million/632 thousand - Z$39.1/kW/year.
7.        The  marginal  economic  cost  of  low  voltage  distribution  is
estimated to 1e Z$40/kW/year in early 1985 price terms in the Energy
Pricing Study, at a shadow exchange rate of about Z$2.10/US$. Allowing for
domestic inflation at 15X/year for 2.5 years, the equivalent cost in
mid-1987 price terms is Z$57/kW/year.



- 102 -                          6.4
Page i of 3
ZIBAIWE
POWER II PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1,       Economic Return to Development Program.   The Power II Project
forms part of a continulng development program for the power system in
Zimbabwee   Although it is possible to identify its costs, it Is not
possible to disaggregate benefits attributable to the project components
from the total benefits from system development, since berefits are derived
from the joint use ot a number of components of which only some are
developed under the Power II Project.
2.        Program Period.  The economic rate of return is thus computed for
a specific period of the development program. This period starts at the
beginning of the Power II Project and extends sufficiently far beyond the
project completion date to include the medium term benefits of the
investments undertaken during the project period. The selected period is
from FY88 to FY95. The year FY95 has the additional advantage as a cut-off
date of beI^g .he point of commissioning the first large lump-sum
investment in generating capacity (Hwange extension) under the least-cost
development program (number 5 in the mission's evaluation - Annex 2.5).
Large lump-sum investments present methodological complications for
analysis of the economic costs and benefits of time-slices in programs.
3.        The economic cost used for computing the economic return is the
difference in the total system costs between the least-cost development
program (the with-program case) and a program that involves no new
investment (a without-development program case designated program zero in
the aassion's analysis). These costs are taken from the mission's analysis
of development programs (Annex 2.5).   Although the costs for the with-
program case includes capital expenditures, it also captures reduction in
operating costs, especially with low or zero energy --osts from increasing
hydropower output.  Transmission and distribution development costs are
included to the end of the evaluation period at one third of the average
annual rate of investment under the project duriug the first three years
(the remaining two-thirds is for making up the back-log in maintenance
work). The residual values at end FY95 of new facllties installed under
the development program are included as a credit for the with-program case.
4.        The economic benefits of the development program are assessed
from the incremental demand served under this program relative to the
without-program case, valued at the economic value attributed to the
incremental demand. Without new investment in generating facilities (or
new agreements to import power), capacity to supply energy becomes
inadequate to meet the mission's forecast energy demand (Annex 2.4) in
FY93, and by FY95 the deficit reaches 1263 GWh (112 of demand).   This
projection allows for the retirement of the old coal-burning thermal power
stations  in the early 199r .   Rehabilitation of these stations is a
component of the mission's identified least-cost power development



- 103 -
ANNEX 6.4
Page 2 of 3
program. Up to FY93, the incremental demand is assessed from the analysis
of the project's distribution components (Annex 6.3), sit:ce even with
adequate generating capacity, the power system would lack the distribution
capacity to meet demand iP. the without-program case.
5.        The value of the incremental demand is based on a conservative
estimate of the consumers willingness-to-pay for electricity in ZImbabwe.
The lowest demonstrated level is the actual tariff, estimated to average
5.08 Z4/kWh in FY87 (Annex 5.2). However, this tariff is low (equivalent
to 2.7 US¢/kWh at the projected exchange rate) by world standards, and it
substantially undervalues power in economic terms.
6.       Power consumers in Zimbabwe, apart from the major export-oriented
industrial and mining consume.a, would be willing to pay a substantialty
higher tariff than the present levels without affecting their demand. For
purposes of evaluating the economic return to the power development
program, the mission has adopted a conservative estimate of 5 US¢/kWh
equivalent based on experience in other countries of actual consumption
patterns under higher tariffs than those in Zimbabwe, At the exchange rate
for FY87 of 1.70 Z$/US$, the estimated willingness to pay is at least 8.50
74/kWh for this group who account for about 60X of total energy
consumption.   Under the projected declining exchange rate for the Z$
against the US$ used for estimating the project costs (Annex 4.2), the Z$
value of willingness to pay will rise.
7.        The demand for power of the major export-oriented industrial and
mining consumers is considered to be sensitive to power tariffs, especially
for increases in demand, due to the pressure on their costs to maintain
competitiveness  in  international  markets.    A  value  of  2.5  US¢/kWh
equivalent (4.25 Z¢/kWh) is taken as the estimated willingness to pay for
the forecast increase in power demand (Annex 2.4) for these consumers, who
correspond broadly to those supplied under special agreements from FY88
onwards and account for about 40% of total energy consumption.
8.        The weighted average estimate of consumers willingness to pay for
the forecast increase in power demand is 6.8 Z4/kWh (US cents 4,0/kWh) in
FY87 price terms and exchange rates, according to the basis described
above. With these values, the economic rate of return to the least-cost
power development program to FY96 is estimated to be 18.0%.  Details of
this estimate are given on page 3 of this Annex.



tU2 _  f1110 WMa,I  P_              17-FY _   j3UIC KIM
Yer fadig  _  3ath                                       tw       tin         9     19t     1I9      912       993    199         95                                       rMtsr: hr ffvutinw  Ce
Saplemkrtfetl fro fdstiag peatifg Facilities Ilatiwe to  dte  h rc_tu                        *                                                                          IU  F 7  CMt             2
Ibiau   base   .  8.0.)                                   4S        3      -145    -211    -2        -2S7     -39    -4         -55
f       tub S.m                                          4         1       3         04       417   475    -27         -W7    -1263                                     Sam _sciuge UntSM              2.03
"A"  0           h Nm Capaity r Nrtd Pow added to the OWsNe by F199 m             sitet project ca  for mstimtiag the ecuuuc retel                                       lopt tarifftltim  of am
tariff to 19%  tariff
-hmd   gp         1.410
caemic Cests of betao ProJcted lti_Aw           Po r e                 tmcletdeg caoital ad 91 Cats of sistisq coaity)                                                 .            -FMry  ag           .
TM   "mlg I    3t                                        IW7      13    199         t9"     I"9      1992  t993 IM     19"      199                                     Noie  hdtis Rtio  lF
Ws5-  C-r  to IbamCm   1.0
Systm foegy R.qt4rumot (992                              497      933    9493    19026    10399      IO 1070  31153   SU       11913 
Eur    lhicatioo fh)
-lamb  neyo)                                           4915     415    49et    4915       495      41       4         915    4960o
-_A   gs(    OlS coal)                                 2793    3217    30         3343    3452    3U37    41         5149    922
-hue (Ipist p      t coal)                              23      139      1533 1t           2037    2313      922      4 0
-id mmrl Utaie    (vearsilitated)                         0        0        0        0       0       U       190        0        0
eial bal_s it Stat FrM  of km Nht  sith fPr.
Total Csts-hue + old Thestls  rtg            lliu)      11.46    11.3S7    m47      5.29    249      9.45     1.04     9.4I     7.64 9.U d
Value of                                      [WV kmitc kcit   mibi
&NWCd       Csts of  atin     Oumd            uits)      32       19      1t9       I99    t1992      m 399        19 14   I9  kn   bs                          Co                    W      tie   Ctop   t      l
(start F 1                                      wI    1       ars    311killi3.
Fully aith tesst  Uhopus Profem
fonwtit
-oeratim  Cup.mt (proyr)1fu1                 11t3i1    11.46    I1.7    439    SL9         47.90   24.49    22.77    23       21.97   21.54                    lwibe LlpraUg    391            30  25LI9  397.3
-hedi  batap Irauissm  Dispeosat             Mulileu   0.15    3.00   210   2.05  2X.01 20 .        3. 20.00   200  C0 2   e.    .00   )312                     MO Thm).  u "a          2       15   40.2A U4J.7
-Lw  oltae  listributio2 Coma         10           1. IO G0 10.00   10.001  10.1    I0.15    10O     30      £0.1    19.1    tL           .15           Xbtot                                                 21.
11.46   41.V7    7349    9L9       77.9    14.49       7      3.9      4997                            Truuieiont            36         a 3    L0 .   1331.3
Partly uitbt tnest-test Oepelp t Pror                                                                                                                                             to 199              lii
-W_dtife   C _mpAt  rO   t0)                taillim    11.46   11.3    1347         5.29    1U97   129.      15.04     9.*7    7.94                            Ilstrihoti.s          tw19        5 U   0.1     50
                                    - - --   -                                                                           te99                Iye m
larsmtd Ca cost of h     p     t r          t  illit      CO.    M.0 0  40.02    3.5    60.93   3S.03   37.73    49.21    41.35
k_maic buIits of Lut-Cst huelapuat Pro
-wd  _duae  aithat- lopmm  Pregro                OD         0      109      215      329      44      44U6     44U      957    12U3
-ditiml sles it1   Iemit Prhoram 2               O2         0       %       19S     297      403      403      403       7      3143
Vatl  Of Iure                                 hiud  h    kts
heefits fro *dtieslk   s                    t'i.li       0.15     6.54    13.26   20.22   2V.42   27.42    27.42   S2.4   77.75
_ _      ___                                                                    --                                                                                                   .     1     E
llrt _list dl Lust-Cot b4slspmt Prsremrutaelliem    ee15   -23.4    - 497    -4.4   -33.50    -7.91   -10.30           3.47    3LU4   4374                                                                                   ;
LO -n-                    -L  -=5 -.6 -W  -? WS 42o
kemcuic bte so  btIm         13.03 
btm
tifcldt   the capitd cuts  for hep #Stap 2-2 tt4s this cacity is ost io  eratUe  upe o FlYL
8emd e syste   ism VW losn of 9.5 of et   bAad   ry.



- 105 -                     ANNEX 7.1
ZIMBABWE
POWER II PROJECT
Selected Documents attd Data Available in the Project File
1. Report on the Up.ating or Replacement of the Plant and Equipment at
Kariba South Power Station. Merz and McLellan, UK, January 1986
2. Report on Power Development Plan. Merz and McLellan and Sir Alexander
Gibb & Partners, UK, November 1984.
3. Energy Pricing Study, Final Report. Coopers & Lybrand Associates, et
al., UK, January 1986.
4. Action Plan Report. British Electricity International, November 1984.
5. Central African Power Corporation, Annual Report and Accounts, June
1985.
6. Report of the Committee of Enquiry into the Future of the Central
African Power Corporation. September 1984.
7. Report of the Rural Electrification Coordinating Committee. 1986.
8. National Control Center. Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority, July
1986.
9.  lHwange Power Station, Zimbabwe.  Zimbabwe Electricity Supply
Authority, 1986.
10. A Review of the Requirements for the Integration and DeveloPment of
the ZESA Distribution Systems. British Electricity International
Ltd., February 1986.
11.  Report on the Amalgamation of the Gweru Municipality Electricit
Department. Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, Ltd., June 1986.
12. The Manpower Development Plan for ZESA, Workshop on Planning and
Development. February 1986.
13. Kariba South Station Rehabilitation Project. Zimbabwe Electricity
Supply Authority, December 1986
14.  Training and Power Operation Support; ZESAts Strategy to Attract and
Maintain High Caliber Staff. Transport, ZESA, Corporate Services
Department, November 1986.
15. Formal Unification Program, Top Level Structure, Approach to
Municipalities, Job Descriptions for Deputy General Managers.
G. England, February 1986.
16. Zimbabwe: Survey of Ownership and Control of Electricity Utilities in
Eastern and Southern Africa. ZESA, December 1986.
17. Draft Legislation and a draft Intergovernmental Agreement. HAP,
February 1987.
18. Working Papers



IBRD 20119
-   ' '   t UO.IDI 'i~ (v n                            28                                    30                                    32
ZIMBABWE
S      POWER 11 PROJECT
t ,   -_.i   I,w      £/I4N A                                                                    j
.AM~ /          ,, Bo G                                                                          '            (       MOZAMB1QUE
__   es_.~~~~~~~~~~_                           7  N O R T  @    > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z O N E-
t   ZAMsIA         <XRAR~~~~~~~RAE                                                                                        t 
-  -   Eittlcsloan Zone Boundaries        .( br ^                          >W                     ft         
fli   Hydro Plent (Relrabllitulainn  i)S/ -\1l;}\5S5(
So8inti Power Faliliie3S
__330 kV Trananslenion Linen,,1i\i s ,  f
o    Oiher Main Traotimbiuul Llneti and Major Sebettossin     W                                                              _  
~I,L     More Than One Circuit                        v       *~!                 3>C/'
::   Thermail Plant Under Cnonrooin                      ~I                                         /            - 
22    -    Iniemnalional BEunderlee                                                                   +       \         t      i2
rlLarErSl   ,                                          ... 10ti  O      S O U T H    AF R IC A 
0      25,- r' o           100             2- Nt 30 
-201 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAI 1P87



