Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2900 ZIM
                      (Second Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
                       Dated March 18, 1988
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2900 ZIM
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  18,  1988  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  ZIMBABWE
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) Zimbabwe (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having
been satisfied as to the  feasibility and priority of the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (C)  the  Guarantor  intends  to  contract  from  the African
Development Bank (hereinafter called  ADB),  a loan (the ADB Loan)
in the principal amount of  seventeen  million Units of Account of
Page  2
the ADB to assist the Borrower in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  in an agreement (hereinafter
called the ADB  Loan  Agreement)  to  be  entered into between the
Borrower and ADB;
     (D)  the Borrower intends  to  contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (hereinafter  called  CDC),  a  loan in an
amount equivalent to thirteen million Pounds Sterling to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter  called the CDC Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and CDC;
     (E)  the Guarantor  and  the  Government  of  the  Kingdom of
Norway (Norway) intend to  enter  into an agreement (the Norwegian
Grant Agreement)  for  the  purpose  of  making  available  to the
Guarantor, for use by the Borrower, a grant in an aggregate amount
of thirty  five  million  Norwegian  Kroner  (NOK 35,000,000) (the
Norwegian Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project;
     (F)  the  Minister   for   Development   Cooperation  of  the
Netherlands, pursuant to an agreement  to be entered into with the
Guarantor, (the Dutch Loan Agreement), has agreed on behalf of the
Government of the Netherlands, to make available to the Guarantor,
for use by the Borrower, a  loan in an aggregate amount of fifteen
million Dutch  Guilders  (DFls  15,000,000)  (the  Dutch  Loan) to
assist in financing part of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  the term "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (b)  the term  "Co-financing  Agreements"  means collectively
the ADB Loan  Agreement,  the  CDC  Loan  Agreement, the Norwegian
Grant Agreement, and the Dutch Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to forty-
four million dollars ($44,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1992,
or such later date  as  the  Bank  shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified Borrow-
ings for the last  Semester  ending  prior  to the commencement of
such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
        (i)    "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
       (ii)    "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
      (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,   financial,   engineering   and   public  utility
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare and furnish to the  Bank for its approval by not
later than July 1, 1988, an implementation plan for the management
information system included in Part G.1 of the Project; and
Page  4
     (b)  take all necessary  measures  to  implement the plan, as
approved, by not later than July 1, 1991.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public  utility  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     (b)  To that  end,  the  Borrower  shall  take  all necessary
measures so that all its senior managerial positions are filled at
all times by qualified and experienced staff.
     Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property and,
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial, public utility and environmental practices.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, at least until the completion of the
Project, take  all  necessary  measures  to  ensure  that adequate
operational support staff  satisfactory  to  the Guarantor and the
Bank is available for maintenance and operation.
     (c)  The Borrower shall rationalize  the structure and levels
of compensation  packages  for  its  staff  by  June  30, 1988 and
thereafter,  shall  maintain   appropriate  structure  and  levels
required to retain and to attract high level and skilled staff.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04. The  Borrower  shall  review with the Guarantor
and the  Bank  the  recommendations  of  the  studies  included in
Parts H.1 and H.2 of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
        (i)    have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the Special Account for each financial
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
       (ii)    furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year:  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited;
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
      (iii)    furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
       (ii)    retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the financial year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
      (iii)    enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
       (iv)    ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such  financial  year,  together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Not later  than  March 31, 1988, in respect
of the Borrower's Five-Year  (1988-1992) Power Investment Program,
and thereafter not later than March  31 in each year, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Guarantor and the Bank a draft of
its  Power  Investment  Program   covering  the  five-year  period
commencing on the following July 1 in each such year.
     (b)  Following review of each  such draft, the Borrower shall
adopt a  Power  Investment  Program  for  the  five-year period in
question which shall  be  satisfactory  to  the  Guarantor and the
Bank.
     (c)  Until the  date  of  adoption  of  each  Five-Year Power
Investment Program and  thereafter,  the  Borrower shall not carry
out any investment estimated to  cost  in excess of the equivalent
of  $50,000,000,  which  is  not  included  in  its  adopted Power
Investment Program  for  the  period  in  question,  without prior
consultation with the Bank.
     Section 5.03.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  take  all necessary
measures so that by June  30,  1988,  June  30, 1989, and June 30,
1990, its accounts receivable shall  have  been reduced to no more
than 90 days, 75 days, and  60 days, of revenues by the respective
dates  referred  to  above.  Thereafter,  the  Borrower's accounts
receivable shall be maintained at or below 60 days of revenues.
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  furnish   a  report  to  the  Bank
quarterly as from September 30, 1988, indicating the status of its
accounts receivable.
     Section 5.04. The Borrower shall,  by  not later than July 1,
1988, implement a  new  national  uniform tariff for substantially
all categories of customers.
     Section 5.05. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall:
     (a)  (i)   carry out  annually  a  revaluation  of  its fixed
                assets in operation,  to  such  extent as shall be
                necessary to reflect  adequately,  at  the time of
                each such revaluation,  the current value thereof,
                in  accordance  with   a  sound  and  consistently
                applied  method  of  valuation  acceptable  to the
Page  6
                Bank, the first  such  revaluation to be completed
                by December 31, 1988; and
         (ii)   (A)  incorporate and  utilize  the  results of its
                     fixed  assets  revaluations   in  its  annual
                     determination of financial performance; and
                (B)  take all  such  measures  to  earn,  for each
                     financial  year  after   its  financial  year
                     ending on June 30,  1987, an annual return of
                     not  less  than  seven  percent  (7%)  of the
                     average current net  value  of the Borrower's
                     fixed assets in operation.
     (b)  Before December 31 in  each  of its financial years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following  financial  year  and  shall furnish to the
Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth   in  paragraph  (a)  for  the
Borrower's financial years  covered  by  such review, the Borrower
shall promptly  take  all  necessary  measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of  its  tariffs)  in  order  to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purpose of this Section:
        (i)   the annual return  shall  be  calculated by dividing
              the  Borrower's   net   operating   income  for  the
              financial year in question by one half of the sum of
              the current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
              in operation at the beginning and at the end of that
              financial year;
       (ii)   the  term   "net   operating   income"  means  total
              operating revenues less total operating expenses;
      (iii)   the term "total  operating  revenues" means revenues
              from all sources related to operations;
       (iv)   the  term  "total   operating  expenses"  means  all
              expenses    related    to    operations,   including
              administration,  adequate   maintenance,  taxes  and
              payments  in  lieu  of   taxes,  and  provision  for
              depreciation on a straight-line  basis  at a rate of
              not less than 4%  per  annum  of the average current
              gross  value  of  the  Borrower's  fixed  assets  in
              operation, or other  basis  acceptable  to the Bank,
              but excluding interest and other charges on debt;
        (v)   the average current  gross  value  of the Borrower's
              fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one
              half of the sum of the gross value of the Borrower's
              fixed assets in  operation  at  the beginning and at
              the end of the  financial  year, as valued from time
              to time in  accordance  with  sound and consistently
              applied methods  of  valuation  satisfactory  to the
              Bank; and
       (vi)   the term "current net  value of the Borrower's fixed
              assets in operation"  means  the  gross value of the
              Borrower's fixed assets in operation less the amount
              of accumulated depreciation, as  valued from time to
              time  in  accordance  with  sound  and  consistently
              applied methods  of  valuation  satisfactory  to the
              Bank.
     Section 5.06. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the  Borrower  shall  produce,  for  each  of  its  financial year
Page  7
beginning from  July  1,  1988,  until  its  financial year ending
June 30, 1991, funds from  internal sources equivalent to not less
than 40% of the  annual  average  of the Borrower's capital expen-
ditures incurred, or expected to  be  incurred, for that year, the
previous financial year and the next following financial year.
     (b)  Before December 31 in  each  of its financial years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory to the  Bank,  review  whether  it would meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following  financial  year  and  shall furnish to the
Bank a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth   in  paragraph  (a)  for  the
Borrower's financial years  covered  by  such review, the Borrower
shall promptly  take  all  necessary  measures (including, without
limitation, adjustments of  its  tariffs)  in  order  to meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)   The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to   operations,    consumer    deposits   and
                    contributions, net  non-operating income, sale
                    of assets and investments and any reduction in
                    working capital other than cash; and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                    including administration, adequate maintenance
                    and  taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes
                    (excluding  provision   for  depreciation  and
                    other   non-cash   operating   charges),  debt
                    service requirements,  all  cash dividends and
                    other cash distributions  of surplus, increase
                    in working capital  other  than cash and other
                    cash outflows other than capital expenditures.
       (ii)   The  term  "net   non-operating  income"  means  the
              difference between:
              (A)  revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
              (B)  expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of  taxes,  incurred   in   the  generation  of
                   revenues in (A) above.
      (iii)    The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities,  at  the end of each
               financial year.
       (iv)    The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash  which could in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next financial year.
        (v)    The   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could under circumstances  then  existing be called
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts payable,  customer  advances, debt service
               requirements, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
               and dividends.
Page  8
       (vi)    The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if  any)  of  debt, and interest and
               other charges thereon.
     (vii)     The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to operations.
     Section 5.07. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, unless the net revenues of
the Borrower for the financial year immediately preceding the date
of such incurrence or for  a later twelve-month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be
at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements
of the Borrower for any  succeeding  financial year on all debt of
the Borrower, including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
         (i)   The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
        (ii)   Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
       (iii)   The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)   the sum of revenues  from all sources related
                     to operations adjusted to take account of the
                     Borrower's tariffs in  effect  at the time of
                     the incurrence of debt  even though they were
                     not in effect  during the twelve-month period
                     to which such  revenues  relate  and net non-
                     operating income; and
               (B)   the sum of all expenses related to operations
                     including   administration,   adequate  main-
                     tenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
                     but  excluding  provision  for  depreciation,
                     other non-cash operating charges and interest
                     and other charges on debt.
       (iv)    The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)   revenues from  all  sources  other than those
                     related to operations; and
               (B)   expenses,  including  taxes  and  payments in
                     lieu of taxes, incurred  in the generation of
                     revenues in (A) above.
        (v)    The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if  any)  of  debt, and interest and
               other charges thereon.
     Section 5.08. Whenever  for  the  purposes  of Sections 5.05,
5.06 and 5.07 it  shall  be  necessary  to  value, in terms of the
currency of the Guarantor, debt  payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate
of exchange at which such other  currency  is, at the time of such
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or,
Page  9
in the absence of such rate,  on  the  basis of a rate of exchange
acceptable to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the provisions of Electricity  Act  1985  of the Laws of
the  Guarantor,  establishing   the   Borrower,  shall  have  been
materially amended, suspended,  abrogated,  repealed or waived, so
as to affect adversely the  ability  of  the Borrower to carry out
its obligations under the Loan Agreement; and
     (b)  the  reconstitution   of   the   Central  African  Power
Corporation in substance satisfactory  to  the Bank shall not have
been completed by June 30,  1988,  or  such later date as the Bank
may agree;
     (c)  (i)  subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A) the right of the  Guarantor  or the Borrower to
                   withdraw the  proceeds  of  any  grant, loan or
                   credit made to  the  Borrower for the financing
                   of  the  Project  shall  have  been  suspended,
                   cancelled or terminated  in  whole  or in part,
                   pursuant  to  the   terms   of  the  agreements
                   providing therefor, or
               (B) any such loan or  credit  shall have become due
                   and  payable  prior   to  the  agreed  maturity
                   thereof; and
        (ii)   subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Guarantor or the Borrower establishes to the
               satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by  the  failure  of  the  Guarantor  or the
               Borrower to perform  any  of  its obligations under
               the respective agreements  providing  for such loan
               or credit; and (B)  adequate  funds for the Project
               are available to the Borrower from other sources on
               terms   and   conditions    consistent   with   the
               obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any event specified  in  paragraphs  (a), (b) or (c)(i)(B) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  7.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
         (i)   The Co-financing  Agreements  have  each  been duly
               executed  on  behalf   of  the  respective  parties
               thereto and all  conditions  (if  any) precedent to
               the effectiveness or  initial disbursement of funds
               under such  agreements,  other  than fulfillment of
               the conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
               this Agreement, have been satisfied;
        (ii)   the Borrower has  introduced  a tariff satisfactory
               to the Bank for  major industrial users of electric
               power which have  executed  special agreements with
               the Borrower; and
Page  10
       (iii)   the Borrower has  appointed  staff to key positions
               in its Management Information System Unit.
     Section 7.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  General   Manager  of  the  Borrower  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Zimbabwe Electricity Supply Authority
          Electricity Centre
          25 Samora Machel Avenue
          P.O. Box 377
          Harare, Zimbabwe
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               ELECTCOM                          4323 ZW
               Harare
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    ZIMBABWE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY AUTHORITY
Page  11
                    By /s/ Arthur T. Charamba
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Distribution            22,200,000         100% of foreign
     equipment and                              expenditures,
     materials                                  100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 75%
                                                of local ex-
                                                penditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(2)  Computer Facilities       2,800,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 75% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Vehicles under            2,800,000        100% of foreign
     Part D.2 of                                expenditures, 100%
     the Project                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                costs) and 75% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'              1,000,000        75% of foreign
     services under                             expenditures
     Part G of the                              for services of
     Project                                    consultants
                                                domiciled with-
                                                in the territory
                                                of the Guarantor
                                                and 100% of for-
                                                eign expenditures
                                                for services
                                                of other con-
                                                sultants
(5)  Operational               9,600,000        100% of foreign
     support                                    expenditures
Page  12
(6)  Training                  1,600,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(7)  Unallocated               4,000,000
                              __________
          TOTAL               44,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to: (i) enhance institu-
tional development of  the  power  sub-sector  in  Zimbabwe by the
reorganization  and  strengthening  of  its  operations including,
inter alia,  establishment  of  long-term  development  policy and
investment  priorities;  (ii)  assist  in  the  rehabilitation and
extension  of  high  priority  power  facilities  to  meet growing
demand; and (iii)  establish  a  management information system and
efficient decision-making procedures.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Kariba South Facilities
1.   Rehabilitation  of  the   Kariba  South  Hydroelectric  Power
Station,   including   the   installation   of   transformers  and
replacement  of  turbine   runners   and   auxiliary  and  control
equipment.
2.   Provision of spare parts and consumable items.
Part B:   Distribution
1.   Replacement, extension and  installation  of new distribution
lines and substations  in  the  Greater  Harare, Western, Eastern,
Central-Southern and Northern Areas of Zimbabwe.
2.   Reconductoring of  some  existing  distribution  lines in the
areas referred to in Part B.1 and provision of equipment and spare
parts.
Part C:   Transmission
1.   Construction of about  500  kilometers  of transmission lines
and up-grading about 50  kilometers of existing transmission lines
between  Tokwe-Triangle,  Chinhoyi-Mhangura,  Warren-Seki, Norton-
Bindura-Madziwa and Warren-Kadoma-Sherwood.
2.   Construction of substations  at  Atlanta  (30 MVA), Criterion
(20 MVA), Madziwa (10 MVA),  Kadoma  (125 MVA), Kambuzuma (30 MVA)
and Highfield (60 MVA).
Page  13
Part D:   Workshops and Vehicles
1.   Construction of workshop  facilities including stores, garage
and  transport  yard  covering  about  12,000  square  meters  and
equipping of such facilities  with,  inter alia, metal fabricating
tools, welding equipment, hydraulic  presses, fixed and travelling
cranes, ovens and furnaces and miscellaneous hand tools.
2.   Acquisition of  about  15  motorcars,  about  330 trucks with
various  capacities,  about   40   motorcycles,  buses,  front-end
loaders, street-lighting vehicles,  tractors,  tippers, cranes and
miscellaneous equipment and related spare parts.
Part E:   Manpower Training
1.   Carrying out of a  training  program  for about 30 generation
staff, about 20  transmission  staff,  about  40 senior and middle
management staff and about 15 staff  of the Control Center, of the
Borrower.
2.   Provision of  training  instructors,  equipment  and teaching
aids.
Part F:   Operational Support
1.   Financing of about 320  technical and operational staff years
to assist the Borrower in  the  operation of its power system over
the Project implementation period.
Part G:   Management Information System and Computer Facilities
1.   Design and implementation of  a management information system
for the Borrower.
2.   Acquisition of computer facilities and ancillary software.
3.   Training of staff in the use of the computer facilities.
Part H:   Studies
1.   Carrying out of a high voltage transmission network study.
2.   Carrying out  of  a  study  of  the  Borrower's  power system
transient  behavior   with   a   view   to  determining  necessary
modifications and improvements  to  achieve effective and reliable
power system operation.
           *          *          *          *          *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning August 1, 1993
     through   August 1, 2007                         1,465,000
On Feburary 1, 2008                                   1,515,000
Page  14
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:*
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but not                          0.55
     more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
_____________
*    The years and premiums  shown  here  are  for a 20-year Loan.
     Appropriate adjustments for loans  of other maturities should
     be confirmed by the Loan Department.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
Page  15
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To  the  extent   practicable,   contracts  for  distribution
equipment and materials,  and  vehicles  shall  be  grouped in bid
packages estimated to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $500,000 or more
each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1  hereof,  goods manufactured in Zimbabwe may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent  of  $500,000  per   contract  may  be  procured  under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Proprietary spare parts  for  the  rehabilitation of existing
equipment may be procured on  a negotiated basis from the original
manufacturers or authorized representatives, on terms satisfactory
to the Bank, provided, however,  that the aggregate amount of such
contracts shall not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $500,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3,
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
design  and  implementation  of  a  management  information system
included in Part  G  of  the  Project,  the  Borrower shall employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
Page  16
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories means Categories 1 through
6 set forth in the  table  in  paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term  "Authorized  Allocation"  means  an  amount of
$1,000,000 to be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and deposited
into the Special  Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3  (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
Page  17
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories 1 through 6  shall  follow  such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the  extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
