D~
The Wor
*                                        FoR OmaA
Repwt No.  9984
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2612-ME)
OCTOBER 15, 1991
Country Department  I
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of May 1991)
Currency Unit -  Mexican Pesos (Mex$)
US$1.00 = 3000 Mexican Pesos
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS    -    National Development Bank for Public Works
FONHAPO     -    Low-Income Housing Fund
FOVISSTE    -    Housing Fund for State Service Works
INFONAVIT   -    Housing Fund for Workers
NGOs        -    Non governmental Organizations



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
*                                         Washington. DC 20433
U.S A
Office (i Dveectm-C sl
Optagwou ivaIutgnm
October 15, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico
Low-Income Housinx Proiect (Loan 2612-NE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report:entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Low-Income Housing Project (Loan 2612-ME)" prepared
by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2612-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .....ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Preparation, Design and Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Loan Amount and FONHAPO's Institutional Capacity . . . .    3
FONHAPO's Cost Recovery .         .     .      . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Type of Housing Solutions .         .     .     . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Procurement  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  4
Sector Reform  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ....  5
Project Implementation  ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    5
Loan Amount and FONHAPO's Institutional Capacity  . . .              5
FONHAPO's Cost Recovery .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Types of Housing Solutions .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Procurement  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
Sector Reform  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    7
Lessons Learned From the Implementation Process   . . . .    7
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Policy Impact  ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    9
Poverty Tmpact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Macro-Economic Contribution  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Institutional Impact .................                              10
Lessons Learned From Project Results and Impact  . . . .   11
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Bank Performance   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .....  .    .   11
FONHAPO Performance ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  .    .   12
Project Relationship  . . . .   ....... . .                          ....  .         .   12
Consulting Services ....  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .12
Project Documentation and Data  ....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .    ........      .   13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont.)                                        Page No.
PART II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . 14
PART III  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.  Related Bank Loans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Tablo 2.  Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 3.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements   18
Table 4.  Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Table 5A.  Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .  19
Table 5B.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Table 6.  Project Results  . . . . .  .  .      . . . . . .   20
Table 7.  Status of Major Loan Covenants . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 8.  Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24



MEXICO
LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT (LOAN 2612-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the first Low-Income
Housing Project in Mexico for which Loan 2612-ME in the amount of US$150.0
million was approved in August 1985. The loan was closed on July 16, 1990,
approximately two years ahead of schedule. It was fully disbursed and the
last disbursement was in June 1990.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision
mission of the project in February 1990, and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision
reports; progress reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower;
interviews with Bank staff and with Mexican government officials; and internal
Bank memoranda.
The project executing agency, FONHAPO, also prepared its own
extensive project completion report which the Bank reviewed when preparing
this PCR. The FONHAPO report is available in LAC Files.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT (LOAN 2612-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.      The Bank loan was seen as a means of assisting the Government of
Mexico (GOM) in pursuing its objective of improving public management of
housin' subsidies. The project was designed to be the first in a series of
lend'ng operations in the housing sector to conduct a policy dialogue which
would addrese issues such as capital recovery and the measurement, control and
reduction of subsidies, while improving distributional equity in the
allocation of housing credit. Specific objectives were: (i) to foster the
replicable growth of public investment in housing for the poorest and largest
segment of the market; (ii) to strengthen FONHAPO (Fondo Nacional de
Habitaciones Populares), a newly-created national trust fund, during its
critical expansionary period through the introduction of new onlending terms;
and (iii) to support a dialogue with the GOM focussing on key housing sector
issues.
Implementation Experience
2.      Approved by the Bank in late 1985, the Loan to FONHAPO was fully
disbursed by July 1990, approximately two years ahead of schedule. This was
accomplished despite economic conditions that were considerably worse than
expected at the time of project appraisal and a major earthquake which struck
Mexico City in 1985. In general, the project can be credited with
transforming FONHAPO into a major player in the Mexican housing finance
sector, and more specifically with the development of FONHAPO's highly capable
planning and evaluation unit.
3.      Rising domestic inflation led to a drop in FONHAPO's cost recovery
ratios in 1986. In response to a project covenant, and with the help of the
dialogue established with the Bank, FONHAPO revised its lending terms
effective January 1987, opting for a mortgage instrument which increased the
outstanding loan balance and monthly payments in response to the periodic
adjustments in the minimum wage. The new system proved easily understandable
and manageable by FONHAPO sub-borrowers and final beneficiaries alike, and
allowed FONHAPO's cost recovery rate to exceed the level covenanted in the
loan agreement with the Bank, in a highly inflationary environment. FONHAPO
has since gone on to revise its on lending terms to reduce subsidies further
and improve their targetting to the neediest population groups. The project
also served to focus Government attention on numerous important sector-wide



- iii -
issues such as cost recovery, local decision-making and management, the strong
demand for low-cost housing solutions and the application of large-scale
credit operations to meet that demand.
Results
4.      All told, FONHAPO financed 142,000 housing solutions under the
project, or 99% of the goal set at Appraisal. During the same implementation
period FONHAPO grew to include ten regional offices, and its annual loans
program jumped from financing around 7,500 housing units in 1983 to a steady
60,000 units per year from 1986 through 1988.
5.      During the project period, FONHAPO produced ov'r 270.000 units
affordable by families earning between 0.8 and 2.5 minimum salaries (from
around the 20th to the 70th percentile of income distribution as of 1984).
The majority of these units were affordable by families earning 1.5 minimum
salaries or less (about US$150/month in 1990 prices), or those within the
bottom 45% of income distributio:a.
6.      The large scale of FONHAPO's operation under the project also
stimulated a new policy orientation towards low-income housing solutions.
FONHAPO was the first Mexican housing agency to actually measure its output
against demand and to develop a conscious policy of "more (housing) for less
(unit cost)". FONHAPO was success ul in pushing sub-borrowers (i.e., state
housing institutes, municipalities, private groups and NGOs) to reduce housing
costs. Considering that serviced lots and progressive housing had previously
been provided only on a small scale in Mexico, the project gained acceptance
for these types of housing solutions on a national scale.
7.      Other positive institutional impacts on planning and evaluation,
management, and decentralization within FONHAPO extended further to state,
municipal and local housing institutions and, finally, to the non-government
sector, including housing cooperatives and credit unions, which multiplied in
number and in capability in response to the housing credits offered under the
project.
Sustainability
8.      FONHAPO's collection performance (with delinquency rate of less than
52 of outstanding loans) and the actual repayments of final beneficiaries are
very satisfactory. Long- and medium-term program sustainability and growth,
however, continue to depend on FONHAPO's ability to maintain its low-cost
solution approach to housing, to obtain funds from the central government to
supplement its resources and to recover loans from subborrowers and
beneficiaries. Regarding the latter, as FONHAPO loans link outstanding
balances and monthly payments to the minimum wage, FONHAPO's future capital
recovery will depend critically on the relationship between the movement in
the minimum wage and domestic inflati%in rate.



- iv -
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.      The rapid and successful execution of the project can be attributed
to a number of factors including: (a) the use of a line of credit which
offers collective loans to both public and private sector intermediaries
representinig pre-detined low-income beneficiaries, (b) the provision by
FONHAPO of technical assistance to subborrowers and final beneficiaries in the
identification, promotion, preparation and implementation of low-income
housing subprojects, and (c) the application of systematic operating rules,
including transparent procurement procedures, which required subprojects to be
carefully planned and conLstantly supervised to ensure the early identification
of problems and their prompt resolution.
10.     About 60% of the total number of FONHAPO loans made under the project
went to private sector subborrowers, mainly to housirg cooperatives and civic
associations. This is strong evidence that such groups have an important role
to play in providing housing finance to low-income families.
11i     The project underscored the importance, in order to reach the poorer
segments of the housing market, of directing financing to low-cost,
progressive housing solutions, and of offering a flexible approach to fit
housing solutions to beneficiaries' needs and to support self-help
construction activities.
12. Finally, the fact that the project originated in Mexico, in response to
popular demand, and was strongly backed by the Government, also accounted for
its success. Bank staff wisely did not impose alternative solutions, but
played a supportive role, emphasizing the achievement of a few policy goals.
This was complemented by ptoject conditionality which fostered a strong
dialogue between the Bank and Mexican authorities during project execution and
proved helpful in addressing important implementation and sector-wide issues.



MEXICO
LOW-INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
(LOAN 2612-ME)
P'ROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART T: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Proiect Identity
hame                       : Low-Income Housing Project
Loan Number               :2612-ME
RVP Unit                   : Latin America and the Caribbean
Country                   : Mexico
Sector                    : Infrastructure/Urban
Subsector                 : Housing
2.      Background
2.01    Despite increasing oil revenues during the late 1970's, Mexico's
growing public deficit and deteriorating balance of payments came to a crisis
in the early 1980's. Inflation increased to two-digits, the Government
withheld payments on external credits and devalued the peso in two dramatic
jolts which also led to massive capital flight. The Administration of
President de la Madrid, which began its term in 1982, took steps to recover
domestic and external confidence and to stabilize the public sector and
externial finances. Government measures to speed recovery focussed on the
construction industry, which had been hit hard, with a sudden and severe drop
in output and lay-offs of over half of the 1.9 million construction workers in
1981.  In its "1983-198° Housing Plan", the Mexican Government proposed to
double the total number of housing units supplied, compared with the previous
,ix-year period, while increasing investment only 112. This required a
reduction of the average unit housing cost of 45% in real terms and a better
targeting to low-income population. The decision to support low-income
housing, normally a labor-intensive industry in a sector which appeared "to
produce capital almost without capital"-, was designed to offset some of the
hardships imposed on the lower-income populations, while aiming at economic
recovery through rapid employmeni growth. The Government plan relied on the
V/   Paul Strassman, "Construction, Productivity and Employment in Developing
Countries", International Labor Review, May 1970, as quoted by G.C.Guarda
in the Staff Appraisal Report.



-2-
development of a small and newly-created national trust fund, FONHAPO V, to
implement a massive program for low-income families previously unattended by
public sector housing programs.
2.02    Since the Bank had only limited previous experience with housing in
Mexico. it conducted a sector study in 1983 which noted that housing needs,
particularly for the urban poor were reaching "alarming proportions". The
study also underlined problems of misallocation of available public resources
for housing and noted the problems posed by credit programs beyond the reach
of families earning less than 3 minimum wages, or about 75% of the total
population.   lso, the lending terms and conditions applied to housing failed
tc take into account the effects of ii.flation adequately, which led to a low
average rate of capital recove'y (about 40Z of real value over the period
1977-1982). In addition, the housing programs operated by two major payroll
funds (INFONAVIT, for private sector employees, and FOVISSTE for public sector
workers), were financed in a distortionary way through mandatory
contributions.
2.03    The Bank loan was seen as a means of assisting the Government of
Mexico (GOM) in pursuing its objective of improving public management of
housing subsidies.  The project was designed to be the first in a series of
lending operations in the housing sector" to open a policy dialogue which
would address issues such as capital recovery and the measurement, control and
reduction of subsidies, while improving distributiona& equity in the
allocation of housing credit.
3. Proiect Objectives and Deoieription
3.01    The project objectives were to foster the replicable growth of public
investment in housing for the poorest and largest segment of the market, to
strengthen FONHAPO during its critical expansionary period through the
introduction of new onlending terms and lastly, to support a dialogue with the
Government focussing on key housing sector issues, among them the
fragmentation of government initiatives, low rates of capital recovery, and
the distribution of housing subsidies.
3.02    Bank loar proceeds were to be provided to FONHAPO by the Government
as equity contributions. The proceeds were to be relent by FONHAPO to
eligible subborrowers (i.e., states, municipalities, social and cooperative
organizations and authorized banking institutionals) on terms and conditions
which varied with the type of subborrower and the unit cost of sub-project
facilities.
2/ "Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares", the Government's low-income
housing fund, and the executing agency for the subject Loan.
3/ Subsequently, three follow on Bank loans were approved in support of
housing in Mexico: Earthquake Reconstruction Project (2665-ME); Housing
Finance Project (2947-ME); and Second Low-Income Housing Proj  .t (3140-
ME). For more information, see Table 1 in Part III of this report.



- 3 -
3.03    The project provided finanding for subprojects for the construction
of serviced sites and progressive construction (housing) units in rapidly
growing medium-size cities. FONHAPO was to onlend funds to subborrowers who
would implement sub-projects, participate in their financing, provide
collateral guarantees and allocate construction facilities to eligible
beneficiaries (primarily non-wage workers earning less than 2.5 minimum wages)
under appropriate mortgage arrangements. In addition, the project provided
technical assistance to PONHAPO required to support an increased lending
program and to FONHAPO's subborrowers. Finally, the project supported the
carryin.g out of a Housing Finance Study. The project was to permit the
settlement of about 142,3uO families in serviced lots of which 15,200 would
irclude starter dwelling units.
3.04    Several of the project's features represented innovations for the
Bank as well as for Mexico. among them; i) the financing of a credit line for
housing rather than pre-identified projects; ii) the focus on mass-scale
operations, implying reduced cost housing solutions (serviced lots and
progressives dwellings) designed to encourage the beneficiary family to
construct, or to complete their own homes; iii) the emphasis on flexible
housing solutions which varied with the borrowers' needs, rather than preset
design schemes; iv) the use of private sector contractors selected through
competitive bidding to construct the houses; v) the inclusion of private
sector groups such as NGOs, self-help housing cooperatives and entrepreneurs
as subject of credit; vi) the use of a decentralized (FONHAPO) operational
system w-'ch implied, for the first time, the reliance on local project
development and implementation and the p r-vjisiol of technical assistance to
final beneficiaries, and; vii) the financial orientation of FONHAPO's
operations, which included developing mechanisms to measure subsidies and
improve capital cost recovery levels.
4.      Proiect Preparation. Design and Oreanization
4.01    The project was tentatively proposed in 1982 by Mexican Central Bank
representatives but discussions were almost dormant for the fo_'owing year
while the new de la Madrid Administration developed its plans for the housing
sector. Preparation required a slightly longer period than originally
foreseen leading to appraisal in August 1984, and Board presentation in August
1985. The project met with some initial resistance within the Bank, which
stemmed from general doubts about the wisdom of supporting houding during
times of economic crisis. There were also specific concerns, in particular
that of potentially uncontrollable future subsidies on FONHAPO's loans to sub-
vorrowers. This and other issues raised during project preparation are noted
below.
4.02    Loan Amount ar,d FONHAPO's Institutional Capacity.  The project size
increased during the course oi preparation from US$150 million to US$300
million, with Bank financing covering 502 of project costs. At issue were:
first, FONHAPO's capacity to implement the project and to meet disbursement
goals, considering its low output in 1982 (3,000 units/year) and its small
size (five offices throughout Mexico), and second the Bank's financing of



local costs (25Z of total, or 50Z of the Bank's contribution) given the low
estimated foreign exchange component (252).  The project's social content,
involving the provision of housing credit to low-income beneficiaries, and its
high priority for the Mexican Government swayed discussion and led to its
final approval by the Bank. The project included no financing for technical
assistance, although FONHAPO agreed under the project to strengthen its own
institutional capacity as well as that of its subborrowers.
4.03    FONHA?O's Cost Recovery.  At project initiation, FONHAPO's applied
different interest rates (on its loans), depending on the amount of the loan
to the final beneficiary. The peso loans carried an interest rate between 9-
15Z during the first year which rose by a factor of 1.1 each year thereafter
until loan maturity, which varied from 4 to 6 years. Since the initial
interest rates were significantly below the prevailing inflation rate (then
422), any reasonable increase in cost recovery in real terms depended on a
drastic reduction in domestic inflation. At appraisal, both the Government's
and Bank's calculations projected that domestic inflation would follow a
downward pattern. (See Part III, Table 6.C) However, to safeguard against a
possible increase in inflation, a loan covenant specified that BANOBRAS would
calculate FONHAPO's expected capital cost recovery ratio on a annual basisW.
Another loan covenant obliged FONHAPO to revise its financing scheme to reach
at least the 502 level (See Part III, Table 7, Items L.A. 6.0.2 and 6.0.3).
4.04    Types of Housing Solutions.  FONHAPO proposed to finance various types
of home constructioni, from serviced lots and progressive housing to finished
housing and home improvements, while the Bank urged concentration in a single
area--serviced lots (para. 3.03). During project preparation FONHAPO
ultimately agreed to focus a majority of its financing on serviced lots and,
to a lesser extent, on progressive housing. By project initiation FONHAPO
had dropped finished housing from its repertoire. During project
implementation, at FONHAPO's request the Bank agreed to allow the use of Loan
proceeds for the financing of FONHAPO home improvement credits (para. 5.05).
4.05      Procurement.  During project preparation, FONHAPO pressed the Bank
to allow for direct administration and local bidding procedures in place of
international competitive bidding. Given the relatively small lizes involved
in the contracts, the Bank conceded that international firms would have little
interest in participating in the project anc' agreed to allow local competitive
4/ This annual calculation, which involved making certain assumptions about
future inflation rates to determine the discounted value of principal
amounts of subloans, applied to typical site and services and progressive
housing subloans granted by FONHAPO during the previous year. A complete
description of the agreed methodology and assumptions for this
calculation is contained in the loan's legal documents.
5/ Serviced lots were defined as titled urbanized lots with connections to
water, sewerage and electricity, and progressive housing units were
generally three-room starter homes located on a serviced lot.



bidding procedures throughout the project, and direct administration up to a
share of 21% of the loan proceeds.
4.06    Sector Reform.  The poor cost recovery performance of the housing
sector in general was a matter of serious concern to the Bank throughout
project preparation and appraisal. In particular, it was noted that the
housing programs run by the quasi-public payroll funds (para. 2.02) provided
subsidies larger than FONHAPO's, and did not target subsidies, nor solv'tions,
to lower-income groups. Since at the time it did not appear possible to tie
total sector reform to a loan to FONHAPO, the Bank opted to stimulate a
dialogue on sector issues, requiring that the GOM prepare a comprehensive
study of housing sector finances as part of the project (para. 3.03). The
housing sector finaance study was also designed to quantify subsidies within
the overall housing sector and to come up with policy proposals to allow their
reduction.
5.      Proiect Implementation
5.01    Approved by the Bank in late 1985, the loan to FONHAPO was fully
disbursed by July 1990, approximately two years ahead of schedule. Federal
budget allocations to FONHAPO through out project execution were considerably
less than expected, due in part to the need for GOM support for the earthquake
reconstruction program (also supported by the Bank through various existing
and new loans), but also to the reductions in public spending which then took
place in Mexico after domestic inflation started to move up again in 1986.
Strategically, FONHAPO applied the majority of its resource flows to the Bank-
financed program, so that, in the final analysis, the project represented some
451 of FONHAPO's total output rather than the 16% estimated at Appraisal.
FONHAPO's rapid rate of disbursements to its sub-borrowers found its match in
BANOBRAS which developed a system for managing Bank disbursements to FONHAPO
through the agile use of a project special account, keeping FONHAPO's
resources at adequate levels throughout project execution. In response to a
joint request from FONHAPO and BANOBRAS, the Bank increased the special
account from an initial balance of US$8.5 million to US$14 million in
September 1988, thereby providing FONHAPO with liquidity needed to maintain
the project's rapid implementation pace. Other implementation outcomes which
are directly related to the issues previously mentioned, are discussed below.
5.02    Loan Amount and FONHAPO's Institutional CaRacitv.  All told, FONHAPO
financed 142,000 housing solutions under the project, or 99% of the goal set
at Appraisal. During the same implementation period FONHAPO grew to include
ten regional offices, and its annual loans program jumped from financing
around 24,000 housing units in 1985 to a steady 60,000 unite per year from
1986 through 1988. Whiile this was less thar the yearly averages anticipated
at appraisal, FONHAPO also managed a major part of the GOM's earthquake
reconstruction program, which financed another 66,000 housing units. Through
a widespread effort to establish contacts throughout the country and to
support local and regional organizations, FONHAPO fulfilled another of its
objectives aimed at geographical distribution of its financing. In accordance
with the guidelines of the National Housing Plan (and its own by-laws),



- 6 -
FONHAPO invested less than 15% of the project funds in the country's three
major metropolitan areas (Mexico City, Guadalajara and Monterrey), and spread
the remainder throughout the country, mainly in fast-growing urban centers.
5.03    During project execution, FONHAPO fulfilled a commitment to strengthen
its own institutional capacity as well as that of many of its subborrowers
(para. 4.02). In particular, FONHAPO established computerized lending and
accounting systems for its headquarters and regional offices, prepared manuals
and educational materials to explain its programs to subborrowers and
beneficiaries, and created an ongoing training program for its staff. For
subborrowers, to assist them in managing their lending activities, FONHAPO
developed and promoted the use of computerized models for loan billings and
collections.
5.04    FONHAPO's Cost Recovery.  The high rates of inflation experienced in
Mexico during 1985-87 left FONHAPO with cost recovery ratios falling as low as
35% in July 1987, and in accordance with the project covenants (para. 4.03),
FONHAPO revised its lending terms effective January 1987, opting for a
mortgage instrument which tied the outstanding loan balance and monthly
payments to the adjustment in the minimum wage. (The minimum wage is revised
periodically by the Government and therefore acts more as a wage index for
unskilled labor than as a rigid floor price.) Under this new scheme,
beneficiaries payments were calculated as a fixed proportion of the monthly
minimum wage and were set at a maximum of 25% of the head of household's
monthly income. Loan maturities ranged from 7 to 8 years, and down payments
varied from 10-15% of the loan amount. The loans were accompanied by lump-sum
subsidies which increased as the loan amounts were reduced (theoretically
giving larger subsidies to the poorer families who take out smaller loans.)
While part of the subsidy appeared "up-front", the remainder was delayed until
the end of the repayment period and depended on a borrower's making monthly
payments on time, thus providing a strong incentive for compliance. The new
system proved easily understandable and manageable by FONHAPO sub-borrowers
and final beneficiaries alike, and brought about an increase in FONHAPO's
capital recovery rate to 60% by 1988.Y
5.05    Tynes of Housing Solutions.  As Table 4.A in Part III of this report
shows, the number of progressive housing units financed under the project
increased with respect to Appraisal estimates while the number of serviced
lots was reduced as FONHAPO found that serviced lots had limited demand in
certain parts of the country, where climate and economic conditions led people
6/ FONHAPO further revised its lending terms in late 1989, as a condition
related to Bank approval of a Second Low-Income Housing Project (Loan
3140-ME). According to the new terms, FONIHAP0: (1) lowered lump-sum
subsidies for all loans and eliminated them entirely for its largest
loan amounts; and (2) incorporated an explicit 3% annual interest rate
on the wage-indexed loans (net of the up-front lump-sum subsidies provided
by FONHAPO).



to insist on a minimum shelter on their lot. In response to this new demand,
FONRA*O pushed subborrowers to reduce the costs of the progressive unit (which
cost on average US$3.524 as compared to the Appraisal estimate of US$6,287),
while simultaneously working to cut costs on serviced lots. Thus the total
number of progressive housing units was able to increase without a reduction
in total FONHAPO production. FONHAPO's production profile changed further in
1988 when, following a formal request from BANOBRAS and FONHAPO, the Bank
agreed to modify the legal documents to allow Loan proceeds to be used to
finance home improvement credits. By that time the Bank had gained confidence
in FONRAPO's capacity to handle more activities and lines of credit
effectively, and agreed with FONHAPO that home improvement credits were an
effective way to reach the poor (para 6.06).
5.06    Procurement.  Shortly after loan signing, the GOM introduced a
national procurement law which coordinated local contracting procedures with
those of the Bank's. In the course of project execution, the Bank assisted
FONIAPO in developing standard procurement documents, consistent with Bank
procurement guidelines. for all subprojects financed with Bank loan proceeds.
As a result, few procurement problems were encountered during project
implementation.
5.07    Sector Reform.  The housing finance sector study and the dialogue
pursued by the Bank with the GOM. plus the exemplary effects of FONHAPO's
program led to important policy reforms (para. 6.03). The new credit
instrument adopted by FONHAPO (para. 5.03) represented concrete steps not only
to improve its finances and cost recovery levels (Part III. Table 6. C). but
also to begin to target its subsidies on a sliding icale to poorer families.
5.08    Lessons Learned From the Implementation Process.  The rapid ard
successful execution of the project can be attributed to several factors
including:  (a) the use of a line of credit which offers collective loans to
both public and private sector intermediaries representing low-income
beneficiaries. (b) the provision by FONHAPO of technical assistance to
subborrowers and final beneficiaries in the identification, promotion.
preparation and implementation of low-income housing subprojects. and (c) the
application of systematic operating rules, including transparent procurement
procedures. which required subprojects to be carefully planned and constantly
supervised to ensure the early identification of problems and their prompt
resolution.
5.09    Many of the circumstances which beset the project, including economic
crises, natural disasters and cutbacks in counterpart funding. would have
brought many equally well-designed projects to a grinding halt. In this case,
implementation was favored by a team of highly-motivated professionals, both
in the Mexican Government and in the Bank. who participated in the project's
development and execution. and by the efficient operational systems which they
had developed. Once iritiated. the project tapped into an enormous demand for
low-cost housing, and into local (decentralized) institutional capabilities
which provided another stimulus for its constant advances. The lesson here



- 8 -
evidences the importance of a team of committed p:ofessionals who stayed with
the project from design throughout implementation.
5.10    About 60% of the total number of FONHAPO credits made under the
project went to sub-borrowers from the private sector, mainly to housing
cooperatives and civic associations. Few private entrepreneurs participated
in FONHAPO's program (taking less than 1% of FONHAPO's total credits). This
is strong evidence that NGOs and social interest groups have an important role
to play in providing housing finance to low-income families, and that
exclusive reliance on other private sector financial and tpchnical
intermediaries is not likely to achieve the desired results. Nonetheless, the
public sector's sub-borrowers tended to put together larger projects and
represented the largest aggregate borrower, producing 85% of the projects'
total housing solutions.
5.11    Finally, the fact that the project originated in Mexico, in response
to popular demand, and was strongly backed by Government, also accounted in
large part for its success. Bank staff wisely did not impose alternative
solutions, but played a supportive role, essentially assisting in improving
the design and operation of the FONHAPO program and emphasizing the
achievement of a few key policy goals. This was complemented by project
conditionality which fostered a strong dialogue between the Bank and Mexican
authorities during project execution and proved helpful in addressing
important implementation and sector-wide issues.
6.      Proiect Results
6.01    Project results are reflected in the performance of the Mexican
housing sector during the sexennial period 1983-1988. Although the total
number of housing solutions provided by the formal sector during the 1983-88
period fell short of the public sector's programmed goal by about 12.5%,
nonetheless housing output rose by 70% over the previous six year period. As
Chart 5.A in Section III shows, FONHAPO's output build-up began in 1985, the
year the Bank loan was signed. At the same time housing investment increased
by only 8Z due in large part to FONHAPO's focus on lowering costs to provide a
greater number of solutions. As Tables 4.A, 6.A and 6.B in Part III show,
during the period of project execution, FONHAPO's unit costs averaged
US$2,1422J, as compared to an overall public sector average of around
US$8,000. While FONHAPO's contribution to total public sector housing ouput
increased from an average of 4.4Z in 1977-1982 to 22.3% in 1983-1988, its
share of total public sector investment rose only from 3.4% to 10.5%, during
the same period.
6.02    FONHAPO's progressive housing units and serviced lots set in motion a
round of secondary housing-related investments by beneficiaries, estimated by
FONHAPO at 30% of the original housing costs. The vast majority of such works
7/ The average unit cost in pesos was translated into dollars each year and a
final average taken over the five year disbursement period.



- 9 -
were carried out by low-income homeowners themselves together with individual,
small contractors which they employed.
6.03    Policy Impact.  The project served to focus Government attention on
numerous important sector issues such as cost recovery, local decision-making
and management, the strong demand for low-cost housing solutions and the
application of large-scale credit operations to meet that demand. The housing
finance study and the dialogue generated by the FONHAPO loan led in part to
reforms that proved crucial for the development of the Bank-supported Housing
Finance Project (Loan 2947-ME) which support changes in regulations which
allowed the commercial banks to achieve full cost recovery on their mortgage
loans. Also, FONHAPO's actions during project execution led to changes in
other Mexican housing programs. Indeed, the housing programs of the largest
payroll funds, INFONAVIT and FOVISSTE (para. 2.02) recently abandoned the use
of a fixed-rate mortage instrument and adopted a wage-based instrument
modelled after the one used by FONHAPO. Considering the Bank's initial
concerns about housing sector policies (para. 4.06) these spin-off effects of
the project offer an interesting instance of policy change by example, rather
than by conditionality.
6.0!t   At another level, the project influenced the local state and municipal
hou-ing institutions and NGOs. The project affected further sector
development, insofar as FONHAPO's financing served to promote private sector
participation in development, to mobilize additional resources, to sustain the
financial autonomy of sectoral institutions and to improve investment
efficiency.
6.05    The large scale of FONHAPO's operation under the project also
stimulated a new policy orientation towards low-income housing solutions.
FONHAPO was the first Mexican housing agency to actually measure Its output
against demand (See Part III, Table 6. A) and to develop a conscious policy of
"more (housing) for less (unit cost)". During the implementation period
FONHAPO developed new, simplified solutions which cut costs by about a half
(See Section III, Table 3. A). Considering that serviced lots and progressive
housing had previously been provided only on a small scale in Mexico,
primarily for rural solutions, the project managed to gain acceptance for the
new concepts on a national scale.
6.06    Poverty Impact.  Project beneficiaries have not been analyzed apart
from FONHAPO's general beneficiary population; nonetheless, the profile of the
overall FONHAPO beneficiaries during recent years suggests a significant
impact on poverty. During the period of project execution, FONHAPO produced
over 270,000 units affordable by families earning between 0.8 and 2.5 minimum
salaries (from around the 20th to the 70th percentile of income distribution,
as of 1984). The majority of these units were affordable by families earning
1.5 minimum salaries or less (about US$150/month in 1990 prices), or those
within the bottom 45Z of income distribution. Beneficiary income, however,
varied with the type of housing financed. FONHAPO's monitoring system shows
that the median incomes of beneficiaries of the home improvement loans and
serviced lots were 1.2 and 1.3 times the minimum wage, respectively (US$120



- 10 -
and US$130), well below the national median. Roughly half of FONRAPO's
beneficiaries were salaried workers with fixed contracts, another 202 worked
as day-laborers or on 6hort-term contracts, and 301 were self-employed. About
35% of FONHAPO loans were made to families headed by a female.  The average
age of FONHAPO beneficiaries was 36 years and the average family size was 5.5
persons.
6.07    Macro-economic Contribution.  Besides bringing about reductions of
subsidies in the housing sector, the project also had other positive macro-
economic effects. Its rapid disbursement rate, coupled with its low foreign
exchange component provided Mexico with foreign exchange in a period of severe
economic strain.
6.08    Institutional Impact.  Even though the project included no financing
for technical assistance it had, nonetheless, a widespread and positive
institutional impact, particularly on FONHAPO, helping to transform it into a
major player in the Mexican housing finance sector, and laying to rest earlier
doubts about FONHAPO's institutional capacity for project implementation. The
project can also be credited with the development of FONHAPO's highly capable
planning and evaluation unit and with supporting the streamlining and
decentralizing of FONHAPO's overall operations. Institutional impact extended
further to state, municipal and local housing institutions and, finally, to
the non-government sector, including housing cooperatives and credit unions,
which multiplied in number and in capability in response to the credits
offered under the project. The majority of these borrowers have grown in
their capacities to develop and execute low-income housing projects, and to
recover their housing loans.
6.09    During project execution BANOBRAS, with Bank support, increased its
capacity to supervise procurement and administrative activities related to
FONHAPO's use of Bank loan proceeds. As a result, and in order to make Bank
supervision and disbursement efforts more manageable and to speed up FONHAPO's
access to Bank funding, the Bank agreed, under the follow-up loan to FONHAPO
(Loan 3140-HE), to delegate to BANOBRAS responsibility for sanctioning FONHAPO
subproject eligibility and for withdrawing directly Bank loan proceeds from
the special account. The Bank now reviews BANOBRAS's and FONHAPO's compliance
with respect to these activities on an ex-post basis during supervision of
Loan 3140-ME.
6.10    the project's final average economic rate of return (E.R.R.) is
estimated at 19.4% for progressive housing projects, and 34% for serviced
lots, based on information provided by FONHAPO concerning current sales values
and rental rates for seven sub-projects from five different states and Hexico
City (Table 6.D). This compares favorably with the Appraisal's estimated
E.R.R. of 19X and 23.7%. for progressive housing units and for serviced lots.
respectively. It should be noted, however, that the sample sub-project base
is small, that the range of reported rents and sales vaJues varied
dramatically with respect to investment costs, and that the very measure of
improved real estate values reflects the economic recovery which Mexico has
experienced.



- 11 -
6.11    Lessons Learned from Prolect Results and Impact.  In terms of phvsical
achievements, the project underlines the importance of the low-cost,
progressive housing solution for reducing costs, of the flexible approach to
fit solutions to beneficiaries' needs for reaching a larger population group--
in particular the low-income families--and for stimulating informal sector
construction activity, through minimum solutions and self-help programs. On
the financial side, FONHAPO's adoption of a new mortgage instrument which
links loan balances and monthly payments to adjustments in the minimum wage
(para. 5.04) has proven to be easily understood and accepted by low-income
families and served to improve FONHAPO's overall cost recovery beyond the
levels covenanted under the loan. In terms of policY impact, the project
experience demonstrates that important changes can be achieved through
continued dialogue in support of a project, substantially designed by the
local policv makers. Finally, significant and widespread institutional
development occurred in this project without the use of foreign experts or
imported technologies assistance, but instead due to the Government's and
FONHAPO's determination to strengthen its own operations and programs in
response to the demand which the project stimulated and to Bank support
through dialogue and studies.
7.      Proiect Sustainability
7.01    Thus far FONHAPO's low-income housing program has continued to grow.
Bolstered by a second Bank operation (Loan 3140-ME) signed in early 1990,
FONHAPO expects to increase its output by some 80% over the next six years,
with respect to the period covered by the first project. FONHAPO's collection
performance (with a delinquency rate of less than 5% of total FONHAPO loans)
and the actual repayments by final beneficiaries are satisfactory. FONHAPO's
production has been based on notions of massive scale production of low-cost,
starter units which permitted beneficiaries to develop their houses to their
own liking on their own. Long- and medium-term program sustainability and
growth, however, continue to depend on FONHAPO's maintaining its low-cost
solution approach to housing, in spite of pressures from contractors,
politicians and beneficiaries alike and on its ability to obtain funds from
the central government, and to recover loaned capital from subborrowers and
beneficiaries. Regarding the latter, as FONHAPO loan balances and monthly
payments are now tied to adjustments in the minimum wage, FONHAPO's future
capital recovery will depend critically on the relationship between the
movement in the minimum wage and the domestic inflation rate. Finally, the
sustainability of FONHAPO's low-income housing program will depend on the
capacity of its professional staff and on the way its program is managed. As
part of project preparation and implementation, FONHAPO established a series
of operating manuals and regulations, and a very creditable internal
evaluation deoartment. These two internal improvements in place should help
FONHAPO's program to function smoothly in the future.
8.      Bank Performance
8.01    The Bank acted with flexibility and determination in supporting the
Mexican Government request for financial support to FONHAPO, despite some



- 12 -
initial resistance within the Bank (para. 4.01), and demonstrated conviction
and diplomacy in promoting the dialogue which lead to substantial changes in
the sector's financial practicec. The comparatively small Bank team,
continuity of task managers (two from project identification to completion),
and their commitment to respecting project goals helped to focus and to
heighten the Bank's effectiveness. The relatively small number of Bank
supervision missions (Part III, Table B) is somewhat misleading, as
supervision also took place in connection with the preparation and supervision
of the Mexicc Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Loan 2665-ME), as well as
during the preparation of the second FONHAPO project. It also reflects the
project's relatively short disbursement period.
8.02    Bank support lent FONHAPO, during its early years of expansion,
credibility within the Mexican Government and helped FONHAPO draw up its
operating rules, including transparent procurement procedures. The
systematization of functions bolstered the agency's institutional well-being.
Bank participation in the project led to gradual sector change through
dialogue with the Mexican housing authorities, through the development of
studies, and through the application of a complex, but ultimately useful loan
covenant which called for reform of FONHAPO's financial mechanisms if cost
recovery levels should drop below an agreed level (para. 4.C3).
9.      FONHAPO Performance
9.01    FONHAPO performance was exemplary throughout project preparation and
execution. Considering the additianal pressures on the housing sector due to
the Mexico City earthquake of 1985, the COM and FONHAPO showed an impressive
capacity to increase the productivity and efficiency of FONHAPO's programs.
Recently, FONHAPO has taken measures to decentralize its operations and to cut
the size of its staff, which shows its continued effort to improve efficiency.
10.     Project Relationship
10.01   The relationship between the Bank and Mexican housing sector
authorities remained strong throughout project preparation and execution,
serving to deepen the sector dialogue and resulting in the GOM's willingness
to make substantial additional reforms not only in FONHAPO's operations and
programs but also in those of other Mexican housing programs. From the Bank's
point of view, this initial positive experience with FONHAPO paved the way for
additional Bank loans for Mexico's housing sector including the Earthquake
Reconstruction Loan (US$400 million; approved in 1986), which contained a
US$264 million housing component; the Housing Finance Project (US$300 million;
approved in 1988); and the Second Low-Income Housing Project (Loan 3140-ME;
approved in 1989). All told, the Bank has disbursed over a billion dollars to
Mexico for housing programs during the last five years.
11.     Consulting Services
11.01   Outside consultants played no role in project preparation and
implementation. FONHAPO staff, with Bank support, were responsible for



- 13 -
project development and execution, including the institutional strengthening
aspects of the project (para. 5.03).
12.     Prolect Documentation and Data
12.01   The legal agreements for the project were adequate.  Covenants were
met fully on a timely basis, except for the requirements for an an.aual
calculation of economic ratios of recovery which was fulfilled as part of
preparation for this PCR (Table 7, Part III).
12.02   The Staff Appraisal Report provided a useful guide for the Bank during
project implementation, particularly in understanding FONHAPO's subloan
preparation and execution procedures. During project execution, the agreed-to
monitoring indicators were revised to make them more relevant to FONHAPO's
needs. Those new monitoring indicators were incorporated into the annual
program evaluations prepared by FONHAPO and furnished to the Bank. Further
refinements have been made to the monitoring indicators in connection with the
follow on Second Low Income Housing Project now being executed by FONHAPO.



- 14 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM FONHAPO'S PERSPECTIVE1/
In the last decade, the national economy faced strong recessive pressures,
with a high rate of inflation that caused financial, economic, and productive
turmoil, an.d consequently had a significant impact on the federal budget along
with high deficivs on the main national accounts.
On the other hand, the Mexican population experienced an accelerated rate
of growth, main'.y in the last 40 years, makirg more serious the existing housing
deficit.
In spite of significant efforts made by the public sector in support of
housing construction, during the last nine years average investment in this
sector has been slightly above 1% of GDP.
The housing industry also reflected a recession in relation with other
sectors of industrial production and the decrease in public sector investment
expenditures caused a substantial lag on housing infrastructure inventories. In
spite of this situation, during the r--st decade housing production continued to
be the most important within the ten types of works classified, followed in
importance by residential building and urban development.
Within the framework of national housing policy strategies a decision was
made to seek external credits to achieve higher benefits in solving the housing
problem.
On the other hand, the experience of working in a project that called for
an immediate solution, such as that generated by the 1985 earthquake, high:ighted
the need to develop swift mechanisms to speed up the execution of prcjects.
These experiences were transmitted with the same spirit of providing assistance
to housing demands made by cities and towns cities and towns to FONJAPO's
Regional Offices.
Both management and follow up actions, as well as those of closing of Loan
2612-ME (Low-Income Housing Project) granted to the Government of Mexico .y the
World Bank, provided the opportunity to FONHAPO, as a lending institutioa, to
initiate a new institutional development, since this has brought about a series
of very positive experiences as a result of working dynamics established by t;e
requirements and commitments agreed with the Bank.
The lroject had a very positive impact on housing production aimed at low
income groups and therefore on  :he Mexican housing  industry dynamics  and
/,    Original comments have been translated from Spanish into
English.



- 15 -
employment, since FONHAPO's action came to account for 22.3% of total housing
production within the public sector in 1988 and Loan resources represented,
during the 1986-89 period, 40.1Z of housing investment for the trust fund and
45.6% of total works initiated by FONHAPO during the same period.
While FONHAPO's operational volume and the loan resources increased, the
Federal Government also provided more fiscal resources, making it possible for
FONHAPO to improve its production capability under a decentralization scheme to
accelerate Project exzcutijn.
As a result of loan implementation, FONHAPO faced the need to strengthen
progressively its organizational structure, its operational objectives, and its
performance in carrying out the commissioned task: to finance housing programs
for low-income families.
Witt, respect to operational issues, the agency experienced gradual changes
that had an impact on its institutional development. This allowed it to carry
out planned activities to avoid inadequate actions and the use of new operational
systems promoting greater efficiency in the utilization of loan resources.
Originally, the project financed two types of programs: lots and services
and progressive housing.  At the request of the Federal Goveinment, the Bank
agreed to include home improvement programs, which helped the lower income
families with the greatest housing needs to benefit from the program.   This
decision allowed FONHAPO to help reduce the existing housing deficit in the
country.
At the beginning of project implementation, the time to process the
eligibility and reimbursing resources by the Bank was longer than the normal rate
of work maintained by FONHAPO. On average this process required 47 days, which
was deemed to be high given the financial resources requirement necessary for the
FONHAPO's operation, however, the situation was overcome with the second World
Bank Loan, 3140-ME.
From an operating point of view, we observed a limitation in the execution
of Loan 2612-ME which attempted to develop a reasonable criteria to consider a
loan eligible. First, the idea was to establish a minimum amount (of FONHAPO
frequency per subborrower credit). However, given the prevailing inflationary
conditions at that time, it was not an adequate criteria, which prompted the
adoption of a required minimum number of units to approve a loan, thus for
progressive housing and home improvement subprojects it was determined that it
would be 150 (units) and for lots and services,  250  (units).   With this
requirement, although favoring a massive housing production target, it was not
applicable to special situations of certain social groups or small communities
that were not benefitting from the (financing of) World Bank loan. At present,
under Loan 3140-ME, this requirement was abolished; this situation has made it
possible for small groups of housing applicants to benefit from these resources.
However, compliance with World Bank regulations continues, i.e. bidding
guidelines.
During execution of Loan 2612-ME, the requirement of public bidding for
works was introduced. Before the establislment of this condition, works were



- 16 -
only bid depending on current regulations within each federated agency and under
each agencies' own responsibility. At present, application of this requirement
has allowed the carrying out of works through transparent evaluation mechanisms
of the bidders.
Within the lessons learned from loan execution, is the adoption of
institutional mechanisms of planning control of each credit and constant
supervision of compliance with established processes to ensure that their
evolution offers the least amount of problems.
In addition, FONHAPO's financiai scheme was modified with the adoption of
a system related to the increase of minimum salaries, with a view to improve
recovery levels and make the determination of interests to be paid by
beneficiaries more balanced.  The new financial scheme applied by FONHAPO's, was
adopted by the rest of the national institutions resulting in a process of change
within their recovery policies.
The success of the Project basically rests in the unique financing concept
designed  for  FONHAPO:    awarding  of  collective  low-cost  credits,  without
limitations of preconceived housing types, through the concept of a "customized"
loan to meet the needs of each applicant and based on the applicant's economic
situation.
The satisfactory performance of the Project has to be credited to the three
participating  organizations:       the  World  Bank,  BANOBRAS  and  FONHAPO.
Interinstitutional interests were agreed upon to define the type of beneficiary
to ansist, the type of solutions to finance, the institutional strengthening of
lo; ; agencies, the active participation of beneficiaries, and the sustained
effort to maintain a transparent handling of loan resources. BANOBRAS's role
should be especially commended for its consistent support of these objectives and
its role as the Loan's financial agent.
It should also be mentioned that the World Bank acted with flexibility,
making possible the timely execution of the project without losing sight of the
Project objectives. Furthermore, the Bank had the insight that the objectives
would be reached through a long and complex process and even when it did not
totally agree on certain points with the two organizations (FONHAPO and
BANOBRAS), the World Bank chose to convince through dialogue rather than
imposition.
Among the criteria evaluated for each credit granted by FONHAPO, are the
following: times schedules on management and execution, technical feasibility
of projects, supervision of works, work execution timetables, payment guarantees,
and the performance on cost recovery and project completion.
At present, FONHAPO is executing a second Bank loan under which new
procedures have been implemented taking advantage of the lessons learned under
the first project. Throughout the national territory, the programs carried out
with these resources are allowing a large number of families to enjoy solidly
built housing with services in planned areas.



- 17 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans
Number          Year of       Purpose of
Proiect Title       ARproval      Prolect           Status       Comments
Loan 2665-ME         1986       Infrastructure      Completed  Finished on
Earthquake                      and Housing                    Schedule
Reconstruction                  Reconstruction for
Mexico City
Loan 2947-ME         1988       Support reforms to    Good    Early
Housing Finance                 allow commercial               completion
Bank full cost                 expected
recovery on mortgage
loans
Loan 3140-ME         1989       Finance part of        Good    Progressing
Second Low-Income              FONHAPO's 1990-94               on schedule
Housing                         lending program
2.   Proiect Timetable
Item                        Date Planned              Date Actual
-First Mention in Files                                      April     1982
-Identification'/                                            May       1982
-Appraisal Mission                November 1984              August    1984
-Loan Negotiations                April    1985              June      1985
-Board Approval                   June      1985             August    1985
-Loan Signing                     August   1985              November  1985
-Loan Effectiveness               January  1986              March     1986
-Loan Closing                     December 1992              July      1990
-Loan Completion                  June      1992             June      1990
1/ Presentation of First Project Brief.



- 18 -
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements (US$ million)
Bank FY        1985   1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    i991    1992
Appraisal
Estimate            8.5   31.1    48.3    67.7    89.4   113.2   135.2   150.0
Actual i             -      9.9    36.8    60.7   127.1   150.0   150.0   150.0
Actual as Z
of Estimate           0     32       76      89      142      133     111      100
Date of Final
Disbursement:   June 19, 1990
4.   Prolect Implementation
A. FONHAPO Housing Solutions 1985-1989
Tyve of Solution          Appraisal Estimates             Actual
number    unit cost    number    unit cost 2/
(US$)                    (US$)
a. Serviced Lots           126,800    $1,612       57,018      $  712
b. Progressive Housing    15j200       6,287       69,484       3,524
c. Home Improvement           -                    13,520       1,817
d.   TOTAL                 142,000     2,113      140,032       2,142
1/   Disbursements as received by BANOBRAS.  The disbursement schedule as
received by FONHAPO is slightly different, although the dates of initial
and final disbursements agree.
2/   These figures were calculated by dividing total project costs.  They do
not coincide with figures given in the SAR para. 5.05, which are based
on a sample survey of FONAHPO's costs in the first semester of 1984.



- 19 -
5.   Proiect Costs and Financing
A.  Prolect Costs
(in US$ Millions)
Item                         ApRraisal Estimates 1'           Actual
Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign!'  Total
A. Land
5.1         -         35.1    28.0         -         28.0
B. Civil Works;
Infrastructure        116.5        57.2      173.7    89.8         -          89.8
Buildings              42.8         16.7      59.5   167.7         -         167.7
C. Other Costs
Engineering            20.3          1.0      21.3      2.0        -           2.0
Technical Asst.         0.8                             0.8  (included in Admin.)
Administration          9.0          0.5       9.5    12.5         -          12.5
D.  TOTAL             225.0         75.0     300.0   300.0         -         300.0
B. Proiect Financing
Source          Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
(US$ Millions)   %          (US$ Millions)   %
Govt. of Mexico        40.0         13.3%          57.0          19%
FONHAI'O               75.0        25.0%           59.8          20%
Sub-borrowers          35.0        11.7%           33.2          11%
Bank                  150.0        50.0%          150.0          50S
TOTAL             300.0       100.0%          300.0         100%
1/   Including Physical and Price Cont'ngencies.
2/   These are indirect costs; it was not possible to develop a more reliable
estimate. However, to the extent that the SAR estimate was accurate,
the actual costs were probably higher due to the significant real
devaluation of the Mexican Peso during the period of project execution.



- 20 -
6.   Proiect Results
A. Low-Income Housing Production Versus Demand
Year                        1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Thousands of Units
Accumulated Demand          224   451   681   912  1144  1372  1597
FONHAPO Accumulated output   7    34    65   123   184   245   312
Percentages
Annual output/demand         3°    12%   13%   35%   37%   30%   27%
Accumul.output/demand       3%      8%   10%   16%   20%   22%   23%
*    Demand considers the annual estimated formation of families earning
below 2.5 minimum salaries
B.  Role of Public Sector Agencies in Housing Supply. 1983-88
Financial APencies                    Non-Financial
FONHAPO     BANKS        FUNDS        OTHER*     TOTAL
(in percentages of total invesment)               (US$ billion)
Investments
Appraisal Est.   14.2%        30.2%      49.2%         6.4%        11.3
Actual            14.1%       50.5%      39.0%         6.4%        11.6
Shelter Units    (in percentages of total units)         (No. of Units)
Appraisal Est    42.2%        22.7%      30.7%         4.2%    1,624,800
Actual            17.6%       33.6%      40.6%         8.2%    1,395,191
* Includes the earthquake reconstruction program, administered by FONHAPO
C. Inflation and Capital Recovery Ratios
On FONHAPO's Sub-Loans
Year  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Appraisal Estimates of Capital Recovery Ratios:
1. With Declining Inflation   69%   81%   92%   98%   102%  103%  103%
2. With Constant Inflation    57%   68%   78%   87%   94%    96%   96%
3. Minimum Covenanted           50%   50%   50%   50%   50%    50%   50%
Actual                          48%   47%   47%   61%   69%   70%    -
Inflation:
1. Appraisal Estimates         42%    29%   21%  14%   10Z    9%    -
2. Actual (end year)            64%   106%  160%  52%   19%   24%    -



- 21 -
D.   Economic Impact
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
(At full development)
Economic Rate of Return
Sites and Services                   23.7%                   34.0%
Progressive housing units
(3 rooms)                         19.0%                    19.4%
Comments:   At appraisal the economic rates of return for a sample of sub-
projects already implemented by FONHAPO was calculated using the flow or
rental value as a proxy for economic benefits. Economic rates of return (ERR)
were estimated both using sales prices paid for equivalent units after moving
into project sites, and also using rental values derived from current levels
of rent paid by the target population before moving into subproject sites. A
similar method was followed to calculate the actual ERR. The above figures
show the average ERR for the sample at subprojects analyzed. The main factor
contributing to the higher ERR than estimated at appraisal was higher sales
values and rental rates than anticipated.



- 22 -
7. Status of Malor Loan Covenants
G.A. 2.0.2               Government would provide       In compliance
FONHAPO, in a timely manner,
the funds required to carry
out the project.
G.A. 3.0.2               Government would carry out    In compliance
a Housing Policy Study, and
discuss the study's conclusion
and recommendations not later
than December 31, 1986.
L.A. 5.0.6 (a)           FONHAPO would prepare and      In compliance; the Bank
forward to the Bank by         approved the format for
December 31, 1985 monitoring  FONHAPO's annual program
indicators and criteria on    evaluation reports.
economic, financial and
social impact of its sub-
projects.
L.A. 5.0.6 (b)           FONHAPO would submit to the   In compliance
Bank by March 31 of each year
an evaluation report covering
results of previous year.
L.A. 5.0.7 (a)           FONHAPO would provide Bank    In compliance
by December 31, 1985 with a
Technical Assistance Program,
and begin its implementation
by March 31, 1986.
L.A. 5.0.7 (b)           FONHAPO would furnish to the  In compliance; has
Bank by December 31, 1985 a   become an annual
Study for development of a    exercise conducted by
Medium-Term Program.           FONHAPO.
L.A. 5.0.7 (c)           FONHAPO would begin            In compliance
implementation of the
Program by December 31, 1986.
L.A. 6.0.1               FONHAPO would have its         In compliance; audits
accounts audited annually      were prepared and
by independent, qualified      furnished to the Bank in
auditors.                      a time by manner.
L.A. 6.0.2 (a)           FONHAPO would take all         In compliance
measures necessary to recover
at least 50Z of the principal
amount in real terms on its
sub loans.



- 23 -
L.A. 6.0.2 (b)           Not later than March 31 of
each year:
L.A. 6.0.2 (i)           -Calculate the projected             In compliance
financial ratio of recovery
on the subloan amounts lent
by FONHAPO in the previous
fiscal year.
L.A. 6.0.2 (ii)          -Furnish to the Bank the              In compliance
calculation results.
L.A. 6.0.2 (c)           If the calculation shows a            In compliance
cost recovery of less than           (development of
50% FONHAPO shall by September       new mortgage
30 take all measures needed          instrument)
to achieve such rate on all
subloans to be made after
December 31.
L.A. 6.0.3 (a)           FONHAPO would calculate annually   Late compliance
also the projected economic ratio  (as part of pre-
of recovery on the previous year   paration for PCR)
loans.
L.A. 6.0.3 (b)           FONHAPO would furnish to the Bank  In compliance
the calculation results for          (as part of PCR)
previous fiscal year not later
than March 31.



- 24 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
A.    Staff Input by Stage of Prolect Cycle
(Staff weeks at Headquarters and in Field)
Prolect Cycle                           Total Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                     34.0
Appraisal thru Board Approval                         80.1
Board Approval thru Effectiveness                      0.5
Supervision                                           60.2
Total       174.8



- 25 -
B.    Missions
Stage Project             Month/      I       SW      Special-      Perform.  Types
Cycle                 Year    Persons   in        ization       Rating       of
Field  Represented   Status   Problerms
Through Appraisal
Identification/
Preparation              04/84         2         4       lUP
1EC
Appraisal                08/,84        6         11     1UP.1F,1HA
IE,IEC,IEA
SUB TOTAL                                      15
Supervision
Supervision 1            07/86        2         2       1UP,1F              2     F
Supervision 2            02/87        1          1 I    lUP                 2     F
Supervision 3            05/87        2         2       1UP,lF              l
Supervision 4            10/87        2        1        1F,IE               1
Supervision 5            04/88        3        6        lF,2UP              l
Supervision 6            08/88        2         4        1F,1UP             I
Supervision 7            02/90        4        4        1 ,1UP,1E,1RA       I
SUB TOTAL                                   20
TOTAL                                       35
1/ UP, Urban ;lanner; EC, Economist; E, Engineer; F, Financial Analyst; HA, Housing Advisor; RA,
Research Assistant
2/ 1, Problem Free or minor problems; 2, Moderate Problems
3/ P Financial
4/ Desk Review of Project Execution at headquarters



