Doc"m'eDt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
Rpot No. P-4129-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
July 18, 1985
IThk documeuat   a res,^kd isutbumad ma be wed by recpiet only In the perform  of
thdr Shial didIs =muon may an snth  le be dduod wtout Wodd Bnk auhot..



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
On June 30, 1985, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1 - Mex$227.70; the freemarket exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$244.46.
Both exchange rates are currently sliding at a rate of Mex$O.21 per day against
the US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS      -    National Bank for Public Works and Services
BANXICO       -    Bank of Mexico
CPI           -    National Consumer Price Index
CPP           -    Index of Average Cost of Funds to Multipurpose Banks
FONRAPO       -    Low Income Housing Fund
FOVI-FOGA     -    Fund for Housing Operations and Bank Discounting
FOVIMI/ISSFAM -    Social Security Institute of the Mexican Armed Forces
FOVISSSTE     -    Housing Fund for State Service Workers
GIRA          -    General Agreement on Interest Rates
INDECO        -    National Institute for Housing and Community Development
INFONAVIT     -    Institute for the National Housing Fund for Workers
MW            -    Minimum Wage
NDP           -    National Development Plan for 1983-88
PNDV          -    1983-88 National Housing Development Program
PNV           -    1978-82 National Housing Program
FFV           -    Housing Finance Program
SEDUE         -    Secretariat of Urban Development and Housing
SHCP          -    Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit
SPP           -    Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Executing      Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares (FONHAPO)
Agency:
Amount:        US$150.0 million equivalent.
Terms:         15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending      Loan proceeds would be provided to FONHAPO by the Government
Terms:         as equity contributions.  The proceeds would be relent by
FONHAPO to states, municipalities, social and cooperative
organizations and authorized banking institutions on terms and
conditions which vary with the type of sub-borrower and the
unit cost of sub-project facilities.
Project        (i) to increase the supply of public housing investment
Objectives:    provided to the poorest and largest segment of the housing
market; (ii) to strengthen FONHAPO during a critical
expansionary phase; and (iii) to support the Government in
addressing sector issues.
Project        The project would finance sub-projects for the construction of
Description:   serviced sites and progressive construction units in rapidly
growing medium size cities. FONHAPO would onlend funds to
sub-borrowers who would implement sub-projects, participate in
their financing, provide collateral guarantees and allocate
constructed facilities to eligible beneficiaries (non wage
workers earning less than 2.5 minimum wages) under appropriate
mortgage arrangements.  In addition, the project would provide
technical assistance to FONHAPO required to support an
increased lending program and to FONHAPO's sub-borrowers.
Finally, the project would support the carrying out of a
Housing Finance Study. The project would permit the
settlement of about 142,300 families in serviced lots of which
about 15,200 would include starter dwelling units.
Thi document has a esricted disbution and may be used by reciets only in the performnae
or theirofficia duties lts contents may not otherwise be discosed without Word Bank authoriztion



Project Risks: The main project risks are:  (1) the possible reduction in
FONHAPO's operational efficiency through its rapid growth; (2)
the possible shortage of land sites of adequate quality,
quantity and price; (3) possible discontinuity in the
Government's housing sector policy; (4) eventual shortfalls or
delays in beneficiaries repayments to sub-borrowers which
would raise the level of implicit subsidy in the project.
Estimated Cost:
Local        Foreign         Total
US$ million
I.   Land Purchases                     23.3           -             23.3
II.  Civil Works
Infrastructure                    78.2           38.4          116.6
Buildings                         28.5           11.1           39.6
III. Other Costs
Professional Services             13.5            0.7           14.2
Technical Assistance               0.5            -              0.5
Project Administration             6.0            0.3            6.3
PROJECT BASE COST                150.0           50.5         200.5
Physical Contingencies            15.0            5.0          20.0
Price Contingencies               60.0           19.5          79.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST 1/            225.0           75.0         300.0
Financing Plan:
Local        Foreign         Total
-- US$ million
Government                        40.0            -            40.0
FONRAPO                           75.0            -            75.0
Sub-borrowers                     35.0            -            35.0
Bank                              75.0           75.0          150.0
TOTAL                       225.0           75.0         300.0
Estimated Disbursements:
-       USS millions
Bank FY             86    87    88    89      90     91     92
Annual             31.1  17.2  19.4  21.7   23.8   22.0   14.8
Cumulative         31.1  48.3  67.7  89.4  113.2  135.2  150.0
1/  Net of taxes



- iii -
Economic Rate
of Return:     The economic rates of return are estimated at 20% for the
sites and services component and 16% for the Progressive
Construction component.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Report No. 5473a-ME, dated July 18, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS) with the
guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$150 million to
help finance a Low Income Housing Project to be carried out by the
Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares (FONHAPO). The proposed
loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.     An economic report on Mexico (Mexico:  Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. The report's main conclusions and recent economic developments are
summarized below.
3.     Following an import-substitution growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some two decades of high and stable growth after the early 1950s. By the
late 1960s, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the 'easy- and efficient
possibilities for import substitution. Against the expectation of rapidly
rising petroleum earnings, the Government attempted to foster growth through
expansion of public sector expenditures and rising subsidies and protection
of inefficient domestic production. Public sector expenditures as a percent
of GDP more than doubled between 1970 and 1982, from 18.8% to 42.5% (Report
No. 4996-NE, p. 114). By 1976, Mexico experienced a serious financial and
economic crisis. Although the increase in oil revenues led Mexico to a quick
economic recovery, it also removed the urgency of policy reforms. Primary
among these was the need to reduce protection and the anti-export bias of the
trade regime to thereby move over time toward greater efficiency and
international competitiveness. Oil revenues also temporarily helped finance
the public sector deficit and reduced the need for greater fiscal restraint.
Developments during 1977-1982
4.     The stabilization measures initiated in 1977 and the discovery and
exploitation of large oil resources in the mid-1970s allowed the Lopez
Portillo Administration (January 1977-December 1982) to overcome the serious
financial crisis of 1976 and to try to tackle more forcefully structural,
social, and economic problems, including poverty, income and wealth
inequality, unemployment, regional imbalances, and relatively slow



-2-
agricultural growth. In the early years of that Administration (1978-80),
GDP growth was high (8.5% a year), 2.5 million jobs were created, domestic
consumption recovered, and the share of investment and savings in GDP
surpassed historical levels; but the economy became increasingly overheated.
5.     Rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenues led to
increasing public deficits. While inflation rose, no significant pressure
was felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and the
relative ease of obtaining foreign finance. By mid-1981, the economic
situation began to mirror the scene prevailing before the 1976 financial
crisis. The current account deficit of the balance of payments reached 5.2%
of GDP, while the deteriorating international oil market conditions caused
large revenue shortfalls with respect to budget expectations. The public
sector deficit rose to just under 15% of GDP. Non-oil exports dropped, and
the trade deficit reached record levels. External borrowing was used to
finance part of the domestic fiscal deficit and to defend the exchange rate.
Mexico's foreign debt increased rapidly, at a time of high and rising
international interest rates. A stabilization program initiated by the
Government in mid-1981 was not sufficient to redress the growing fiscal
imbalance, the high cost of foreign loans, and the increasing private capital
flight fueled by the public's anxiety over Mexico's financial troubles.
6.     The crisis came to a head in 1982.  In February, as capital flight
intensified, the Bank of Mexico had to stop supporting the peso, which then
experienced a 40% devaluation in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment
granted in March 1982, which tended to undo the effects of the devaluation,
and continuing slack in the oil market kept the balance of payments under
strain. Under the circumstances, the international banking community became
reluctant to commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These
factors led to a second devaluation of 35% in August 1982, while the acute
shortage of foreign exchange forced the Government to suspend the
amortization payments of most of Mexico's external public debt, pending a
broader agreement on its refinancing. Capital flight continued as private
sector confidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks in September
1982, and the mandatory conversion of US dollar deposits into pesos. Also
put into effect were a generalized system of exchange controls and
quantitative trade restrictions covering an unprecedented 100% of imports.
Recent Developments
7.     The Administration of President de la Madrid, that began its term in
December 1982, lost no time in taking steps to recover domestic and external
confidence, and stabilize the public sector and external finances. The
Government's stabilization program, supported by an EFF agreement approved by
the IMF in December 1982, laid the basis for restoring economic stability and
for the renegotiation of that part of Mexico's public external debt on which
amortization payments had been discontinued in August 1982. Commercial banks
agreed to restructure some US$19 billion of public sector debt and provide
US$5 billion in net new loans for 1983. All obligations falling due between
August 23, 1982 and December 31, 1984 were restructured over an eight-year
period starting from January 1983, with a grace period of four years and at
an interest rate of 1-7/8 percentage points over LIBOR (or 1-3/4 over the New



-3-
York prime rate). The US$5 billion syndication had a 6-year maturity, with a
3-year grace period, at a spread of 2-1/4 over LIBOR (2-1/8 over prime). The
restructuring exercise included an understanding that the international banks
would maintain their exposure to the Mexican banks that had been
nationalized. At the same time, it provided a mechanism that would eliminate
1982 private sector interest arrears and facilitate payment of the
rescheduled principal on such debt.
8.     A new two-tier exchange rate system was introduced, with a controlled
market for imports, most proceeds from merchandise exports (except those of
in-bond industries) and debt related transactions, and a free market for all
other transactions including those relating to tourism. The controlled rate
was originally set at Mex$95 = US$1, a depreciation of some 35% in relation
to the previously prevailing ordinary rate of Mex$70 per US dollar. The free
market rate had remained at about Mex$150 per dollar until September 1983,
when the authorities decided to let it slide as much as the controlled rate.
Over the past two years, the peso has gradually appreciated in real terms as
inflation in Mexico remained high (para. 11). The Government increased the
rate of slide of the peso from 13 centavos a day to 17 centavos in December
1984, and to 21 centavos early March 1985, in order to bring it closer to the
expected inflation differential between Mexico and its trading partners.
Domestic deposit interest rates have also been raised since early March 1985
from an average of about 45% to nearly 54% by Hay.
9.     Under the IMF Agreement, the Administration committed itself to a
drastic reduction of the public sector deficit, from 18.0% of GDP in 1982 to
8.5% in 1983, 5.5% in 1984, and 3.5% in 1985. Substantial progress has been
made during the past two years in meeting the program objectives, although
the targets for 1984 were not fully met. The public finances were
strengthened considerably and the public sector deficit was reduced to 8.7%
of GDP in 1983 and an estimated 7.4% in 1984. The main reasons for the
higher budget deficit than the 1984 target were the higher than =?pected
interest payments on the domestic debt, lower than expected tax collections,
and higher than expected transfers. Curbs on expenditures were wide
ranging. The authorities have given priority to completing projects that were
already far advanced and to those that were important for employment, equity,
or foreign exchange earnings. Nonetheless, public investment expenditures
are estimated to have declined to about 7% of GDP in 1983-84, well below the
1982 level of 11.7%. The fiscal performance was also aided by significant
price increases for nearly all public goods and services, including petroleum
products, electricity rates, food, etc. The Government has committed itself
to a substantial reduction and eventual elimination of most subsidies,
including those provided in the form of low interest rates.
10.    The balance of payments experienced a major turnaround in 1983 with
the current account moving from a deficit of almost US$5 billion in 1982 to a
surplus of US$5.5 billion. The strength of the current account and the
availability of external finance permitted Mexico to replenish its
international reserves while paying the arrears accumulated in 1982. The net
use of foreign financing by the public sector was US$4.2 billion for the
year--below the ceiling of US$5 billion under the stabilization program. The



-4-
swing in the current account was mainly the result of a very sharp
conttaction of merchandise imports, to US$7.7 billion, representing a decline
of about US$7 billion from their 1982 level. The recession, the large
devaluation of the peso, and the quantitative restrictions, all contributed
to this. The balance of payments remained strong in 1984, with a current
account surplus of US$4.0 billion; and a further US$3.4 billion were added to
the nation's foreign exchange reserves, which at the year's end are estimated
at about 7-1/2 months of imports. Although imports recovered considerably, a
rapid rise in non-oil exports, particularly in the first quarter of 1984,
ensured that the trade surplus remained at the same level as in 1983, i.e.,
about US$13 billion. Growth in tourism and in-bond industry was also strong,
and helped in alleviating unemployment.
11.    Fighting inflation remains the pivot of the Government's stabilization
program. Although the Government's own inflationary targets have been missed
by wide margins, the rate of inflation continued to decline through
mid-1984. It declined from a rate of about 100% in 1982, to 80% and 59% in
1983 and 1984, respectively. The main factors in this were more restrained
fiscal and monetary policies and moderate wage adjustments. The flow of
savings into the banking system continued to rise through 1983-1984,
reflecting the beneficial influence of interest rate policies. The impact of
the severe and sudden cuts in public expenditure and imports on economic
growth in 1983 was serious when GDP declined by over 5%. However, the
economic recovery in 1984 was stronger than the Government's expectations:
GDP is estimated to have risen by about 3.5%, compared to the earlier
estimate of only 1X.
12.       The Government also took steps to regain the confidence of both
domestic and foreign private investors. These included efforts to deal with
the problems of private external debt, procedures to compensate owners of
nationalized banks, and a more flexible application of the foreign investment
law. Private sector debts totalling approximately US$12 billion have been
registered under a special Central Bank restructuring facility (FICORCA) at
stretched out maturities varying between 6 and 12 years, with 3- to 4-year
grece periods. Moreover, the Government undertook the restructuring of
Mexican private sector obligations guaranteed by official credit agencies
abroad. The Government has also transferred back to private ownership most
of the 400 private firms that were controlled by the commercial banks prior
to their nationalization. These measures and announcements have been
beneficial, but more remains to be done to restore the confidence of Mexican
entrepreneurs and foreign investors. The Government realizes that this is an
issue of the greatest importance, as economic recovery beyond the current
stabilization period will depend critically on the resumption of vigorous
private investment.
13.    The general improvement in the Mexican economy up to mid-1984 was
widely noted, particularly by the international banking community. Mainly
for this reason, the Government's 1984 borrowing of US$3.8 billion from
commercial banks carried much more favorable terms than the borrowing in 1983
(10 year maturity, 5-3/4 year grace period, and a spread of 1-1/22 over LIBOR
or 1-1/8% over prime). The negotiations between the Government and foreign
commercial banks on the rescheduling of foreign debt have been virtually



completed. The draft agreement, covering close to US$50 billion, has been
submitted by the Banks' Advisory Group (consisting of the 13 largest lenders)
to some 500 smalier regional banks for their acceptance.  Under the proposed
terms, the previously unrescheduled debt (amounting to about US$20 billion),
which is due for repayment in 1985-90, will have its maturities stretched
over 14 years. The maturities of the previously rescheduled debt coming due
in 1987-90 will be stretched over 11 years. The 1983 syndicate loan of US$5
billion will be restructured, after prepayment of US$1 billion, to carry
terms identical to the 1984 syndicate loan. In summary, the pending
rescheduling agreement will stretch maturities of US$48 billion public debt
in such a way that the debt service on these debts remains virtually constant
between 1985-1998, in contrast to the present situation, where 75% of the
debt service is due in 1986-89.  The banks will have the choice of LIEOR, a
domestic reference rate, or a fixed rate. These terms are based on the
understanding that the Government will continue to adhere to prudent economic
policies. The rescheduling agreement covering US$29 billion of Government
debt was signed on March 29, 1985. This followed the approval on March 25 by
the IHF of a third-year Extended Fund Facility. The balance of US$19 billion
in loans to Mexican Government agencies is expected to be signed soon.
Recenc Policy Measures
14.       Mexico has experienced some deterioration in its economic
performence since late 1984, with signs of domestic overheating of the
economy and declining non-oil exports. In response, the Government has,
during recent months, taken a series of corrective measures, and will have
to take further measures during the remainder of 1985. In the last quarter
of 1984, public sector expenditures rose in excess of the target of the EFF
program. Consequently, the 1985 budget, which had been approved by Congress
in late 1984, with a deficit of 5.1% of proiected GDP, was cut in February
and May 1985 to 4% of GDP, and a contingency expenditure reserve of 0.5% was
dropped.  In March 1985, the Government announced a program to reduce import
licensing to cover 55-65% of total imports, as compared to 100% in 1983. As
mentioned in para. 8, the exchange rate crawl was also twice adjusted, in
December 1984, and again in March 1985, to stem the loss of competitiveness
of Mexican exports. More recently, Mexican banks have been allowed to trade
in the free foreign exchange market.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.    The Government's strategy, as outlined in the National Development
Plan (NDP) for 1983-88, combines special efforts to recover from the present
crisis with a longer-term perspective on regaining balanced and stable growth
to overcome structural problems. The main problems facing Mexico in the
years ahead include the still very high rate of population growth (2.6%
estimated for 1983) together with an even higher rate of labor force growth
(a little under 4%), slow growth in agriculture, widespread poverty, a highly
skewed interpersonal and interregional income distribution, and an overly
oil-dependent economy with a strong anti-export bias.
16.    The medium-term strategy presented in the NDP focuses on the need for
structural changes in the economy, including a greater export orientation



-6-
through revision of external trade policies, poverty alleviation through
basic needs policies and improvement in labor absorption, and
deceratralization of economic activity. The basic elements of policies to
address structural problems are mentioned in the NDP, and further details on
specific programs and schedules for policy adjustments are provided in the
sectoral plans which were prepared subsequently.
17.    Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic growth
are reasonably good, provided economic management continues to be prudent,
private sector confidence is restored, and the international environment
remains favorable. Adequate domestic policies incluce inter alia continued
efforts to reduce the fiscal deficit, liberalize trade, minimize price
distortions, and maintain a competitive exchange rate. With regard to the
latter, there is concern that the continuing higner than projected domestic
inflation rate, and the slow progress of the Government's trade
liberalization program, have hurt Mexico's non-oil export performance.
Restoration of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and
dynamic private sector will be able to raise investment from the present
depressed levels and to supply the increasing non-oil export surplus required
for the resumption of growth. As regards the external environment, the
commercial banks are expected to maintain their exposure in Mexico in real
terms, and foreign markets to be open to Mexico's non-oil exports. If
interest rates on world financial markets do not rise again, Mexico will
benefit substantially, while she will lose export revenue if oil prices
continue to decline. A one percentage point drop means a savings of about
US$800 million in overall interest payments, which compares to a loss of
US$550 million in gross export revenues that would result from a one dollar
drop in the export price of oil.
18.    Under reasonably favorable external and domestic conditions, Mexico's
economic growth could reach a sustainable 6% a year--the post-WWII average
for Mexico-towards the late 1980s. If a more outward-oriented growth
pattern comprising fiscal discipline, improved domestic efficiency and export
development fails to materialize, it would likely entail a prolonged period
of slow growth, characterized by insufficient labor absorption in
internationally competitive activities, domestic price distortions, and a
continued need for subsidies.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.    Mexico's external public debt increased by about US$4 billion during
1983, and by about half as much in 1984. With an expected net new borrowing
of some US$2 to US$4 billion a year, and assuming that the Government
implements policy adjustments, as needed, particularly in the area of trade
policy, the ratio of external debt to GDP should decline steadily from about
50% in 1984, to 30% by 1990. The debt service ratio, after the proposed
rescheduling, is projected to remain at the 1984 level of 45% through 1988;
thereafter, it gradually declines to about 25% in 1995.
20.    At the end of 1983, the last year for which a comprehensive external
debt report is available at this time, the Bank's share in Mexico's debt was
4.3% (excluding undisbursed). The Bank's share in Mexico's total public



-7-
external debt service payments during that year was 4%. In view of the good
mediur- and long-term potential of its economy and the prospect of continaed
pursuit of sound economic policies by the present Administration, Mexico is
considered creditworthy for IBRD borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP DPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
21.    As of March 31, 1985, Mexico had received 85 loans from the Bank,
amounting to US$6,831.3 million, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 58 loans totalling US$3,495.2 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$5,465.6 million, of which US$1,948.9 million had not yet been
disbursed. Some 42% of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural
development, 23% for industry, 11% for power, and 13% for transportation; the
remaining 11% has been for water supply, tourism, urban development,
vocational training and pollution control projects. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31, 1985.
22.    Of the US$6.83 billion total lending, about US$3.5 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the
commercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal
of investments in agriculture, industry and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises based on productive investment plans,
rather than credit granted on the basis of collateral.
23.    The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978 to
1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused in Mexico on project monitoring. As a result of these
measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented
satisfactorily until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in
FY78, to US$448 million in FY82. 1Rowever, the present financial crisis is
again causing delays ir. the proiision of counterpart funds; consequently,
disbursements in FY83 declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program
was established in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the
counterpart funding constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed
projects are receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the
SAP, disbursements during 1984 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or
35% over disbursements in 1983.
IFC Operations
24.    As of March 31, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, foi. a total of US$753.9 million, of which US$562.5
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the
Bank in preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign



-8-
exchange financing to private sector companies, cor the importation of
machinery, equipment and spare parts required for production of exportable
products, for efficient import substitution, and for improvements in the
utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100
million facility (including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in
1983, which is providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than
those assisted under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.
Bank Strategy
25.    Prior to the 1982 crisis, the Bank's major objectives in Mexico were
to : (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. More recently, however, in response to Mexico's
requirements following the 1982 economic crisis, the Bank, in close coopera-
tion with the IMF, has attempted to broaden its support for the Government's
stabilization and recovery program through assistance for effective export
promotion and intensified and broadened economic and sector work. As for the
future, the volume and composition of Bank lending to Mexico will be related
to progress in the implementation of policy reforms needed for structural
economic adjustments. Specific policy reforms that are being pursued through
a dialogue with the Government, conducted in parallel with the processing of
lending operations, cover priority macroeconomic and cross-sectoral issues,
such as trade policy and export development, interest rate policy, public
sector pricing and investment, and subsidy reduction.
26.    Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in the rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector
for its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico has four
goals: first, to help increase productivity of presently cultivated lands in
general; second, to give emphasis to improving the productivity of small
farmers; third, to complement infrastructure investments with support
services, such as extension, marketing programs and credit; and fourth, to
promote employment-generating investments in rural areas. The Bank has made
14 loans in FYs78-83 totalling US$1,829.4 million for irrigation, rural
development and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs.
A US$175 million loan for a rural development project and a US$180 million
loan for an irrigation rehabilitation project were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY82, and a US$138.4 million loan for San Fernando rainfed
agricultural development was approved in early FY83. A US$115 million loan
for marketing perishables was approved by the Executive Directors in April
1983, and a $300 million Eighth Agricultural Credit Project in June 1984. A
US$90 million loan for a Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, together
with a Chiapas Rural Roads Project, was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 30, 1985. An agricultural credit project is expected to be
presented to the Board in late July 1985. Projects for tropical agriculture,
irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed multiplication,
forestry, agroindustries, and agricultural credit are in various stages of
preparation.



9
27.    Bank lending for industry has aimed at:  (a) reduction of the balance
of payments deficit; (b) decentralizing industrial activities away from the
major, increasingly congested, urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employ-
umnt. A steel project, which the Bank helped structure and finance, is now
operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the West coast of Mexico,
and the city in which it is located, Lazaro Cardenas, is developing into a
new growth pole.  Four loans for industrial projects-to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale Industrial enterprises, to financE expansion
of small- and medium scale mining, and to support an industrial equipment
fund (FONEI)--were approved by the Executive Directors in FYs78-80. A
US$90.0 million loan for a vocational training project, which is assisting a
program to increase the supply of skilled workers and technicians, a US$152.3
million loan for the development of a capital goods industries project, and a
US$60 million loan for pollution control were approved by the Executive
Directors in FY82. A modification in the capital goods project was approved
by the Executive Directors in early 1983, to set un a pilot export develop-
ment fund to help satisfy the foreign exchange needs of Mexican exporters. A
US$350 million loan for an Export Development Project and a US$175 million
- loan for a Third Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project were
approved by the Executive Directors in FY83. A US$105 million Second Small-
and Medium-Scale Mining Development Project was presented to the Executive
Directors on May 21, 1985, and a Second Technical Training Project, on May
28, 1985. In response to the current needs of the industrial sector, several
projects to support non-oil export development, acquisition of modern
technologies, financial restructuring of enterprises and industrial recovery
and growth are in various stages of identification and preparation.
28.    Bank lending for physical infrastructure has been focused on regional
development and strengthening of institutions and sector policies.  In
transport, two highway sector projects (FY7.9 and FY84), ea industrial ports
project (FY84) and a recently approved railways sector loan support
rationalization of public investment outlays and pricing policies, and
improvement of the finances of the implementing sector agencies. Additional
projects to support these goals are under consideration. In urban infrastruc-
ture, the First and Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Projects (FY76 and FY81) reinforce the planning, management and finance of
specialized water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and
nmiicipal levels, and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely
related to costs; a third project was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 17, 1983. Projects for solid waste disposal, small cities water supply,
urban transport, and municipal strengthening, which are in various stages of
preparation, would further support these objectives in respective subsectors,
while assisting the Government in its decentralization efforts.
29.    The Government has adopted a National Urban Development Plan that
spells out its regional development priorities in operational terms. A
project to assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas urban area was
approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second urban project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors in



- 10 -
FY81. A loan for the preparation of a deconcentration program for the Mexico
City Region was approved by the Executive Directors in August 1982.
30.    The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE ("Centro
de Capacitacion de Desarrollo Economico' under the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting) in training Government staff in project preparation, monitor-
ing, and evaluation. EDI assistance is directed at courses on urban and
regional development, agriculture, rural development and agro-industries.
The Bank has also assisted the Mexican authorities in training personnel for
managing water supply and industrial credit projects.
31.    The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest source
of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico totalling
US$3.4 billion as of March 31, 1985. Over 50% of the total has gone to
agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to transporta-
tion, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure, education,
municipal development, and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank have
coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans for
the national integrated rural development program (PIDER), agricultural and
livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel
development projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
CIFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project
in the state of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which
the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for administering the loan.
32.    Bank-supported power, steel, fertilizer, and tourism projects in
Mexico have been cofinanced by several bilateral export credit agencies and
commercial banks. In January 1982, Mexico borrowed US$500 million from
commercial banks to provide complementary financing for Bank-assisted
projects where project specific cofinancing would have been difficult.
PART III - THE HOUSING SECTOR
Main Features of Demand and Supply
33.       Size and Characteristics of Housing Demand.  Mexico's housing
deficit is large. Official estimates put it at 4.5 million units in 1980.
Government sources estimate that some 11 million additional housing units are
needed through the year 2000 to satisfy new and replacement demand. Mexico's
total housing stock was estimated at 12.2 million units in 1980. Without
special action there is serious concern that the overall housing shortages,
particularly at the low income end of the market, will grow. The housing
problem is compounded by: (a) a high rate of population growth (2.6% p.a.);
(b) a rapid pace of urbanization (during the last decade, centers with more
than 2,500 inhabitants increased from 59% to 68% of total population); (c)
the spatial polarization of a large share of demand (26.5% of Mexicans live
in three main metropolitan areas); (d) the extreme dispersion of the rest
(there are 95,000 centers with less than 2,500 inhabitants and 146 cities of



:                                ~~~~~~~~~~- ii -
intermediate size); and (e) the uneven financial capacity of the consumers (72%
of the economically active population earns less than 3 times the minimum wage,
equivalent in present terms to US$425 per month). Rent control legislation is
not a major problem in Mexico's housing sector. The last rent control decree
dates back to 1948, before the expansion of major cities, and is limited to
legislation governing 'pockets" of downtown areas.
34.       Unregulated (Informal) Housing Supply.  Like other developing
countries, Mexico has a segmented structure of housing supply. Most additions
to the stock are not of up-to-code -standard'. Although there has been
improvement in recent years, during the past decade, as much as 65Z of new
housing was supplied either by consumers themselves or by informal builders
operating at the margin of building codes and outside the regulated financial
markets.
35.       In the three main metropolitan areas (Mexico City, Guadalajara,
Monterrey) as in many of the fast growing medium size cities, most of the new
housing units are built by unlicensed developers on illegally occupied sites
(generally public property) with inadequate public services and with little
respect for planning ordinances and building codes. The lack of legal titles
and inspection clearances prevents buyers from using land and improvements as
acceptable collateral for new loans and forces them to continue to operate on
the unregulated credit market. Because it is unregulated and operates with
higher risk, loan conditions in this segment of the market are disadvantageous
to the borrowers. The Government's strategy for reducing informal housing
supply has centered upon increasing the regulated housing agencies' supply of
basic facilities (serviced lots and progressive construction dwellings),
implemented under labor-intensive community efforts (paras. 39 and 41).
36.       Regulated Housing Supply.  The Government intervenes in the housing
market through a large number of institutions, each with its own norms of
operation and financial arrangements.  These institutions can be grouped in
three main categories. (1) Financial agents, mainly nationalized commercial
banks, must apply a mandatory reserve on their total liabilities (currently
8.8%) in form of -social interest- housing loans, in addition to their normal
commercial mortgage financing. These constitute the Programa Financiero de
Vivienda (PFV), supported by a second-tier public agency (FOVI-FOGA) which
finances and insures such loans and provides additional financing. Credits
under the PFV are directed at individuals with incomes between 4 and 7.5
minimum wages. Although somewhat different in statute and operating under the
supervision of the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE)% the
Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares (FONHAPO) can also be included in this
category, since it operates as a wholesale lender and is empowered to borrow
funds from the market. This category accounted for about 28% of regulated
housing supply during the previous sexenio (1977-1982). FONHAPO's activities
are cor-entrated on meeting the housing needs of individuals earning less than
2.5 minimum wages. (2) Three payroll funds, financed through a 5% compulsory
payroll contribution on all wages and salaries paid by the private sector
(INFONAVIT), the public sector (FOVISSSTE) and the military (FOVIlI-ISSFAM),
offer financing to workers earning less than 5 minimum wages in their
respective constituencies. They accounted for 63% of regulated housing supply
in the previous sesenio. (3) Finally, there are a number of non-financial



- 12 -
public housing agencies, supported by Federal or State Treasury transfers which
accounted for the remaining 9% of regulated supply. Some of these agencies are
under the supervision of SEDUE, such as the State Housing Institutes or the
Regional Development Funds, while others are autonomously managed as part of
larger sector programs, such as the housing schemes for rural workers (PIDER),
the employees of the petroleum industry (PEMEX) and the electricity corporation
(CFE). The Federal District (DF) also has a housing scheme for its own
employees.
37.       Supply Distortions.  Although improvements are being made,
particularly through the FONHAPO program, there still are serious deficiencies
with respect to efficiency and equity in the allocation of scarce resources for
housing development. First, most of the programs remain beyond the reach of
the poorest and neediest population. Second, a very low average rate of
capital recovery (about 40% of real value during the period 1977-82) implies
the need for very large implicit subsidies to consumers (estimated at .4Z of
GDP during the past sexenio). In 1984, total public subsidy for housing was
estimated at about US$1.4 billion. Nearly half of this amount (47%) is
attributable to the payroll funds, over one third (35%) to the PFV, and about
14% to the public agencies. FONHAPO accounted for only about 4% of the total
housing subsidy while contributing 26% of the new housing units. Finally, the
use of the payroll funds, financed through earmarked taxes, was characterized
by inefficient and inequitable allocation criteria. Through support for the
expansion of FONRAPO, the Bank would contribute to a gradual improvement in
supply conditions at the lower end of the market and housing sector policies in
general.
38.       The 1982 Crisis and Beyond.  The share of public investment in
housing increased from 0.9Z of GDP in 1978 to 1.2% of GDP in 1982. Public
sponsored housing programs have been responsible for about 5% of gross capital
formation and up to 12.5% of public capital formation during the last sexenio.
In 1982 there was a sudden, severe drop in output in the Mexican construction
industry and over half of the 1.9 million workers employed by the industry in
1981 were reportedly laid off. The present recession and the slower growth
expected through the rest of the decade, as compared to the 1970s, heighten the
importance of employment generation as a policy concern in the coming years.
Because of its characteristics, the construction industry, and housing programs
in particular, will have a central role in policies aimed at economic recovery
with rapid employment growth.
The Medium Term Housing Plan 1983-1988
39.       Main Features.  President de la Madrid's Administration has assigned
high priority to resolving Mexico's housing shortages through i.a. a
significant increase in the role of FONHAPO in meeting the housing needs of the
poor. This priority is reflected in the Government's Medium Term Housing Plan
for the 1983-1988 period (PNDV) which sets an ambitious construction target of
1.6 million new housing units during this period, doubling the supply of the
regulated agencies with respect to the previous sexenio (para. 41). In order
to achieve this objective, the Government has through the PNDV: (1) allocated
additional resources to the housing sector (US$760 million in addition to the
US$1,940 million of authorized budget); (2) assigned specific target rates of



- 13 -
growth for the various groups of regulated housing agencies (para. 40); and (3)
modified the onlending terms for the PFV and the FONHAPO programs thereby
improving capital recovery in "social interest" housing (para. 42). The rapid
rate of growth assigned to the FONHAPO program (from 3% of regulated investment
in 1983 to 14% in 1988) in the PNDV, reflects the Government's commitment
towards increasing the availability of housing for the poor and rationalizing
housing construction in the informal sector.
40.       Proposed Role of Regulated Housing Agencies.  The changing role of
different housing agencies, with respect to their past and present activities,
is presented in the following table:
Table 1: Past and Future Role of Regulated Housing Supply Agencies
Financial Agencies           Non-Financial
FONRAP')   BANKS    BOTH   FUNDS   OTIIER
TOTAL
(in 1980 US$
Investments               (in percentages of total investment)         billions)
1977-1982 ave.          3.4    24.3    27.7    63.3       9.0   100.0    10.7
1984 Program            4.8    44.9    49.7    40.3    10.0   100.0       2.7
1983-88 Plan           14.2    30.2    44.4    49.2       6.4   100.0    11.8
Shelter Units             (in percentages of total No. of Units)          Units
1977-1982 ave.          4.4    21.5    25.9    43.0    31.1   100.0    803,500
1984 Program           25.9    34.3    60.2    29.5    10.3   100.0    270,236
1983-88 Plan           42.4    22.7    65.1    30.7       4.2   100.0  1,624,800
41.       FONHAPO Output Targets.  By 1988, the PNDV expects the realization of
1.6 million units, through an 11 annual increase in real investments, combined
with a reduction in unit construction cost of 45%. This implies a large shift
in output towards least cost housing (sites and service and progressive
construction unite), almost exclusively financed by FONHAPO. The annual
production of this agency should therefore increase from 69,000 starts in 1984
to 200,000 by 1988. FONHAPO's medium-term (1985-88) and long-term (1985-92)
investment programs amount to US$676 million and US$1.4 billion, respectively,
in constant 1984 dollars. Approximately 85% of FONHAPO's investment program
consists of credit for sites and services and progressive construction units.
Because of the rapid growth assigned to the FONHAPO program, the agency would,
as expected, require substantial provision of budgetary resources during the
initial years of its investment program. However, FONHAPO would need to
establish and achieve a predetermined rate of capital recovery so as to ensure
the predictability of the volume of budgetary resources required to sustain the
projected level of operations. Furthermore, FONHAPO would require limited
institutional improvements and modifications, including greater decentraliza-
tion of operations, in order to maintain the present level of efficiency during
a period of rapid growth.
42.       Capital Recovery.  The housing finance system was developed in an
environment of considerably lower inflation than the present level. With
current average cost of funds to the banking system of the order of 50% p.a.



- 14 -
and high inflation in housing production costs (53%), the present onlending
conditions of some regulated housing programs involve considerable
decapitalization of the financial intermediaries. In early 1984, the
Government modified the onlending terms of the PFV and FONHAPO. The revised
onlending terms of both the PFV and FONHAPO tie repayments to a predetermined
fixed proportion of the minimum wage. Repayments are increased as the minimum
wage increases (in the case of PFV, by only 70% of increases in the minimum
wage). Starting interest rates vary from 15% to 30% under the PFV and from 9%
to 152 for FONHAPO. Under both programs, the interest rates applicable to
unpaid principal are adjusted annually. Those of the PFV are incremented by a
formula based on changes in the minimum wage until the interest rate approaches
the average cost of funds to the banking system. FONHAPO's terms provide for
an annual interest rate increment of 10% of the previous year's rate. Under
both programs, repayment periods are flexible and dependent on the pace of
minimum wage adjustments. The revised onlending terms have improved capital
recovery under these programs. Under present assumptions of inflation capital
recovery should approach 70% for the FONHAPO program and slightly higher for
the PFV. However, they do not provide for either indexation of principal or
variable real rates of interest, and capital recovery therefore, remains
unpredictable and sensitive to the rate of inflation. The proposed project
would address these latter problems through a covenant that would protect
FONHAPO's capital recovery in the event inflation should rise above the current
level (para. 70).
43.       The modifications in onlending terms referred to in the previous
paragraph do not apply to all regulated housing programs. For example, those
of the payroll funds, which also provide for tying repayments to a fixed
percentage of wages, continue to carry interest at a flat 4% p.a. over the
entire repayment period (maximum 20 years). While large implicit subsidies are
justified by the Government as a method of transferring income to low-income
groups and in lieu of adjustments in salary scales, because of the low rates of
capital recovery, the payroll funds are only capable of satisfying a small
portion of their captive demand. The proposed project would address this
problem through a comprehensive study of housing finance which would i.a. focus
on the supply and demand implications of policies and practices in the housing
sector (para. 45).
Bank Strategy
44.       The Government has officially stated its objective of improving the
public management of subsidies generally. In the financial sector, this
involves controlling and budgetting the subsidy element of preferential credit
and making it explicit and transparent. For credit components under
Bank-financed projects in sectors other than housing, the Government's
commitment to the control and gradual reduction of subsidies was formalized in
the General Agreement on Interest Rates (GIRA). Signed in August 1984, and
effective since November 1984, the GIRA framework provides for the progressive
adjustment of preferential interest rates in accordance with variations to a
central reference rate. Housing credit was not included in the GIRA because of
the conceptual difference in the adjustment mechanism applied to such credits,
which instead provide for linkages between mortgage payments and the minimum
wage. The Government felt that adjustment through linkages with the minimum



- 15 -
wage, such as provided under the FONHAPO program, was socially and politically
more acceptable in the case of housing credit, since this formula offers a more
direct expression of affordability and can be easily explained to and
understood by the target population.
45.       The proposed project would be the first in Mexico's housing sector.
It would assist the Government In its efforts to increase the availability of
low cost housing through the expansion of the FONHAPO program while at the same
tine strengthening FONHAPO's capital recovery. Bank participation would
complement necessary initial budgetary allocations and require FONHAPO to meet
specific standards of financial performance, thereby gradually increasing its
own contribution towards new investment financing, and reducing the need for
incremental fiscal transfers. The proposed project would provide technical
assistance required as a result of the projected growth of FONHAPO's regional
offices, necessary to accommodate their expanded investment program.  At the
same time, the project would support a longer term sector policy dialogue
through the carrying out of a Housing Finance Study which would address
system-wide issues such as replicability, cost recovery, measurement and
budgetting of subsidies, the adequacy of the payroll retention system, and the
impact of general housing policy on financial savings, employment and the
budget. During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out the Housing
Finance Study and exchange views with the Bank, not later than December 31,
1986, on the conclusions and recommendations of the study (Section 3.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement). Furthermore, the Government agreed to forward
terms of reference for the study, including a schedule for the implementation
of the various components, to the Bank for comment by December 31, 1985 and
exchange views with the Bank regarding progress of the study by June 30, 1986.
Future Bank loans in the housing sector would support gradual reform of sector
wide issues as addressed and discussed in connection with the study.
Experience with Past Lending
46.       Bank involvement in the urban sector began with Loan 1554-ME approved
in April 1978 (US$16.5 million, now fully disbursed) to help address a variety
of urban and regional development issues in Lazaro Cardenas. Loan 1990-ME
signed in December 1981 (US$164 million) addressed similar issues in the oil-
producing areas of Tabasco, Veracruz and Chiapas. Both the above projects were
aimed at providing infrastructure, community facilities and low-cost housing to
complement expanding economic activity in growing peripheral regions.
Experience under Loan 1554-ME was satisfactory, although some administrative
problems arose in implementation. The loaa was fully disbursed in 1983 dnd a
project completion report is being prepared. The Government remains committed
to the original objectives of Loan 1990-ME, but has requested revisions to the
project's administrative arrangements in light of a new decentralized
institutional organization for regional development. As a result of these
changes, as well as reduced absorptive capacity in the project area,
disbursements currently lag behind schedule. However, BANOBRAS has taken an
active role in project promotion, supervision and monitoring and a possible
modification which would achieve the original project objectives, in light of
the present institutional and financial conditions is being reviewed. A third
project, under implementation, Loan 2194-ME signed in August 1982 (US$9.2
million), supports the preparation of the pre-investment stage of a development



- 16 -
program for the Mexico City region. In addition, two completed and two ongoing
water supply projects, as well as three completed tourism projects, contained
urban infrastructure components. Experience under these projects has been
satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5473a-ME dated July 18, 1985) is being
distributed separately. The proposed project was appraised in August 1984.
Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing the project and a
description of special conditions of the proposed loan. Negotiations for the
proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C. on June 19 through 26, 1985. The
Mexican delegation was headed by Mr. German Sandoval of BANOBRAS, and included
representatives from SHCP and FONHAPO.
Project Objectives and Description
48.       The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (a) direct an
increasing percentage of total public housing investment to the poorest and
largest segment of the housing market; (b) support FONRAPO during a critical
expansionary phase by promoting the application of new onlending terms while
assuring specific standards of financial performance and by providing technical
assistance for institutional strengthening; and (c) support the Government in
addressing sector issues. The project objectives would be achieved through the
implementation of subproject investment and institutional strengthening
components described below, and through the carrying out of the Housing Finance
Study, described in para. 45.
Sub-Project Investments
49.       The investment ccmponent would support sub-projects for infrastruc-
ture works (earthworks, drainage, roads, sewerage, water and electricity
networks) and starter dwelling units. To be eligible for financing under the
loan sub-projects should (Annex to Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement):
a)   be directed to families in which the head of household earns an
income equal to or below two and one half times the minimum wage
in the area in which the sub-project is located;
b)   consist of sites and services or progressive construction
units. The two selected lines of credit account for 85X of
FONHAPO's lending;
c)   exceed the equivalent of US$500,000 so as to reduce supervision
and disbursement to a manageable number of sub-projects;
d)   yield a financial rate of return exceeding 9%;  and
e)   be located in 59 priority cities identified in the Government's
Urban Development Program (1983-88) on the basis of:



- 17 -
(i) relative size and growth rate; (ii) relative role in the
national urban and productive systems; (iii) industrial develop-
ment potential; (iv) local entrepreneurial and management
capacity; (v) accessibility and area of influence; (vi)
diversity and quality of available urban services; and Cvii)
role as regional administrative centers.
Institutional Strengthening
50.       The first part of the institutional strengthening component consists
of technical assistance to FONHAPO required to support an increased lending
program and coordination with regional offices. Specifically, this would
include: 1) establishing a complete computerization program; 2) developing
more comprehensive reporting on financial information; and 3) designing and
promoting the use of payment collection models for FONHAPO's borrowers. This
component would also support the development and implementation of a program of
technical assistance and extension services to FONHAPO's borrowers for
sub-project preparation, appraisa'l and implementation, beneficiary selection,
allocation and transfer of facilities, collection of mortgage payments,
monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects and sub-loan agreements. FONHAPO
would prepare a technical assistance program based on an evaluation of
sub-borrowers' requirements. This program would be forwarded to the Bank for
its comments by December 31, 1985 and put into effect by March 31, 1986.
(Section 5.07(a) of the draft Loan Agreement.)
51.       FONHAPO would carry out a study of the mediumr-term financial
viability of the institution and of alternative mechanisms to maintain adequate
levels of capital recovery. The results of this study would be forwarded to
the Bank for comments not later than December 31, 1985 and its recommendations
would be adopted as a Four-Year Financial Program not later than December 31,
1986 (Section 5.07(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Borrower
52.       The loan would be made to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos, S.A. (BANOBRAS), a public development Bank and a financial agent of
the Government. The federal Government controls its policies and directs its
borrowlng and lending activities. BANOBRAS operates several trust funds each
corresponding to a specific investment program. BANOBRAS also makes direct
loans to states, municipalities and other public sector enterprises and is the
borrower for a number of Bank loans in the urban, water supply and transport
sectors.
FONHAPO
53.       FONHAPO is a public trust fund administered by BANOBRAS that finances
non-conventional housing schemes for low-income, non-wage workers. From 1949
through 1980, FONHAPO existed as a division of BANOBRAS, which had the mandate
to construct and promote low-cost housing. The statutory objectives of the
trust fund established in 1981, grant it the authority to finance: 1) land
reserves; 2) sites and services; 3) progressive construction dwellings; 4) home
upgrading; 5) finished houses; and 6) production and distribution of building



- 18 -
materials to assist in self-help construction. Budgetary allocations are
included within the budget of SEDUE, which has regulatory and supervisory
responsibility for FONHAPO's activities.
54.       Organization of FONHAPO.  FONHAPO's policy is guided by a Board of
Directors chaired by the Secretary of SEDUE and including representatives of
SHCP, SPP, BANOBRAS and Banco de Mexico, as well as the Federal Controller, a
Secretary and FONHAPO's General Director. Internally, FONHAPO has an effective
organization comprised of seven Departments under the General Director: 1)
Administration; 2) Finance; 3) Real Estate; 4) Legal; 5) Technical; 6) Plan-
ning; and 7) Social Promotion. In addition, there are offices of Operational
Coordination and of the Internal Controller. All departments are well staffed
with qualified and experienced personnel. Nine regional offices have recently
been established to assist FONHAPO's borrowers in the preparation, implementa-
tion and supervision of subprojects.
55.       Performance of FONHAPO.  FONHAPO's records have been adequately
maintained. Internal planning and financial projections are based upon
marketing and implementation results of previous operations. Since its
establishment as a trust fund, FONHAPO has expanded its operations to the 31
states with a total of over 250 subloans to-date. In 1984, FONHAPO invested
US$107 million equivalent of which 25% in Sites and Services, 59% in
Progressive Construction Dwellings and 16% in House Upgrading. The subloan
disbursement period of a sample of completed sub-projects averaged less than
one year.
56.       FONHAPO's authorized budget for 1985 amounts to US$140 million
equivalent of which US$107 million would represent government transfers and
US$33 million would be internally generated resources. At current prices, this
amount would enable FONHAPO to finance 98,000 housing starts and complete
69,000 units presently under construction.
Sub-borrowers
57.       FONHAPO channels its credits to sub-borrowers which act as the
implementation agencies for the corresponding sub-projects and are responsible
for the allocation of individual units to final beneficiaries. Sub-borrowers
would be: i) federal public sector entities, when their schemes and budgets
have been approved by the federal government; ii) 31 state and approximately
2400 municipal governments, decentralized agencies and parastatal or paramu-
nicipal entities; iii) authorized banking institutions; iv) cooperative housing
associations; and v) legally constituted groups implementing programs consis-
tent with the norms of FONHAPO. In order to cover administrative costs, sub-
borrowers apply a one po nt spread above the applicable FONHAPO interest rate
on the mortgages executed with beneficiaries. This spread adequately covers
administrative costs, in view of the technical assistance and extension
services which would be provided by FONHAPO to sub-borrowers (para. 50).
The Beneficiaries
58.       Beneficiaries of FONHAPO's credits must:  a) preferably, but not
necessarily, be non-wage workers (generally workers in independent, service



- 19 -
occupations whose housing needs are not met by other programs); b) receive
incomes (head of household) no larger than 2.5 times the minimum wage (about
US$355 per month in January 1985); c) purchase the home for residence; d) not
own other real estate property. Although FONEAPO collects data on household
income, only the income of the head of household is considered for purposes of
defining eligibility, since it is more readily available and is generally
adopted for normative purposes under other housing programs. In order to
qualify for FONHAPO's credits, sub-borrowers must submit evidence that the
selected beneficiaries satisfy the above criteria.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The estimated total project cost, excluding taxes, but including
physical and price contingencies, is US$300.0 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange cost of US$75.0 million. The appraisal of project cost has
been based on the average unit prices during the first half of 1984 (US$890 for
a serviced lot and US$3,700 for a 3-room unit in constant 1984 dollar equiva-
lents). The project would support investments equivalent to US$267.0 million
and another US$32.0 million of professional, administrative and technical
assistance services. Physical contingencies are estimated at 10 percent of
base cost. Price contingencies are estimated according to a seven year
disbursement profile on US dollar based values in accordance with projections
of international inflation of 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986, B% in 1987-90 and 5%
for 1991 onwards.
60.       The proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 million equivalent would finance
50% of project cost or the estimated foreign exchange component plus 33% of
local costs. The balance would be financed by the Government through
additional equity contributions (13%), by FONHAPO through internally generated
resources (25%), and by sub-borrowers (12%). BANOBRAS would enter into
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with the Government providing
for the t.ansfer of loan funds to FONRAPO as equity contributions of the
Government and repayment of the loan by the Government (condition of
effectiveness, Sections 3.01 and 8.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The
Government would provide the required counterpart funds through FONHAPO's
annual budgetary allocations (Section 2.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Project Execution
61.       FONHAPO would be responsible for project coordination and would
channel funds to sub-borrowers who would execute sub-projects according to
economical design standards. FONHAPO would, through regional offices, super-
vise the physical progress and proper execution of works financed and provide
technical assistance, as necessary, to sub-borrowers for the implementation of
subprojects and the carrying out of their obligations under subloan agree-
ments. BANOBRAS would ensure that FONHAPO's regional offices are properly
operated and staffed (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       Subproject Appraisal.  Once viable sub-projects have been identified
through the promotional efforts of FONHAPO's Department of Social Promotion,
the prospective sub-borrower, with FONHAPO assistance, prepares technical,
financial, legal and social sub-project documents. After the engineering draw-



- 20 -
ings, cost estimates and subloan documents are finalized, the sub-project,
which is formalized through a subloan agreement (para. 68), is submitted for
approval by FONHAPO's Loan Committee. Sub-projects under the proposed project
would be selected on the basis of FONHAPO's general appraisal criteria in
addition Lo the criteria described in para. 49.
63.       Reporting Requirements.  FONHAPO's procedures for supervision of
subprojects are sound.   Not later than December 31, 1985, BANOBRAS would
submit a formal Monitoring and Evaluation Program to monitor the economic,
financial, and social impact of FONHAPO's sub-projects. Thin program would be
adopted not later than March 31, 1986. The preliminary results and values of
agreed monitoring indicators would be forwarded to the Bank beginning March 31,
1986 and annually thereafter. FONHAPO would, by December 31 of each year
forward to the Bank for review and comment, its proposed investment program for
the following fiscal year as well as the final evaluation of activities during
the previous fiscal year (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Furthermore, FONHAPO would forward to the Bank quarterly reports on project
progress and expenditures according to an agreed format.
64.       Implementation Schedule.  The implementation period of FONHAPO's
sub-projects average nine months for serviced sites and twelve months for
progressive construction units. Loan funds would be committed by December 31,
1990. After allowing for the completion of final sub-projects, the project
would be completed by June 30, 1992 and the closing date would be December 31,
1992.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.       Mexico's construction industry is highly developed and capable of
executing works at costs competitive with international bidders and none of the
individual contracts would be large enough to attract foreign bidders. There-
fore, most construction contracts would be awarded through local competitive
bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank. Works not exceeding in the
aggregate US$50.0 million would be executed on the basis of force account
procedures. This large amount of force account is in line with FONHAPO's
actual experience with the execution of sub-projects which consist of
geographically dispersed and labor-intensive works, many of which are executed
by municipalities and cooperative associations who use force account as the
most economic and efficient means of carrying out sub-projects. Individual
contracts exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent would be subject to prior review
by the Bank. Other contracts would be reviewed ex-post (Schedule 6 to draft
Loan Agreement).
66.       To facilitate administration of the Bank loan, disbursemer.ts would
only be made against civil works expenditures under approved subloans at the
rate of 65 percent of such expenditures (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Up to US$8.5 million of loan proceeds would be made available as
retroactive financing for expenditures incurred after January 1, 1985
(Section 2.02(a) of ttie draft Loan Agreement). Disbursements in respect of



- 21 -
expenditures under contracts not exceeding US$650,000 would be made against
statements of expenditures adequately identifying the relevant sub-project and
cc^tract. All other disbursements would be fully documented. To accelerate
disbursements. BANOBRAS would establish and maintain under its control, a
Special Account, with an initial deposit of US$8.5 million, which would be
operated in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 2.02(b) and Schedule 3 of the draft Loan Agreement). BANOBRAS would
disburse from the Special Account against requests submitted by FONHAPO and
would subsequently forward withdrawal applications to the Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account.
Accounts and Auditing
67.       FONHAPO's accounts have been adequately maintained and have been
regularly auditied by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
FONHAPO would maintain separate project accounts to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures of the project. The independent auditor's reports
of FONHAPO's accounts would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Special Account would be audited by BANOBRAS' independent auditors and
their report would be submitted not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Onlending Terms and Procedures
68.       The subloan agreements would follow a standardized format in
accordance with FONHAPO's Politicas de Adsi'nistracion Crediticia y Financiera
and Reglas de Operacion (Statement of Policy). The conclusion of satisfactory
subloan agreements between FONHAPO and each sub-borrower would be a condition
of disbursement for the respective sub-project (Section 2.02(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
69.       FONHAPO's onlending terms are established in their Statement of
Policy (para. 68). FONHAPO would adopt the Statement of Policy (condition of
effectiveness, Section 8.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement), follow established
onlending terms and procedures and make no changes to the Statement of Policy
which would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or
the financial position of FONHAPO (Sections 5.02 and 7.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The unit costs of eligible sub-project facilities (total
sub-project cost divided by number of units) are established as a multiple of
the minimum wage. The percentage of sub-project cost financed by FONHAPO
varies from 75% to 95% and is a function of the unit cost and of the
sub-borrower. The downpayment would be on average 10% of the subloan amount.
Starting interest rates are 9% for sites and services and liz for progressive
construction unit sub-projects and are adjusted annually by a factor of 1.1.
Monthly payments of principal and interest are fixed as stated percentages of
the minimum wage, and range from 11% to 45% of the minimum wage for
project-related subloans, depending on the sub-project unit cost categories.
Under this formula, principal amortization is calculated as a residual of total
monthly payments minus interest payments. The subloan is repaid when the sum
total of monthly amortization payments thus calculated equals the original
subloan amoant. The amortization period is therefore flexible and dependent on



- 22 -
inflation (to the extent that minimum wage adjustments follow inflation).
Although the maximum repayment period is 20 years, at present levels of infla-
tion, subloans are generally repaid within four to seven years.
Capital Recovery and Financial Performance of FONHAPO
70.       Under assumptions of inflation declining by 30% each year from about
60% in 1984 to 9% by 1990, estimates of capital recovery to FONHAPO are in the
order of 70% in real terms for subloans to be made by FONHAPO in 1985. If
these inflation projections materialize, capital recovery would reach 100%
under subloans made by FONHAPO in 1989 and thereafter.  By March 31 of each
year, FONHAPO would forward to the Bank, a calculation of expected levels of
capital recovery under typical sites and services and progressive constructioui
subloans granted in their previous fiscal year. FONHAPO agreed, during
negotiations, upon methodology and assumptions to be applied in the yearly
calculation of expected capital recovery. Throughout project implementation,
FONHAPO would be required to achieve at least the level of expected capital
recovery estimated for subloans granted in 1985 (estimated at 50% in accordance
with agreed methodology and assumptions). If in any year, the result of the
calculation of the expected level of capital recovery falls below this level,
the Guarantor would enable FONHAPO to, and FONHAPO would, take appropriate
measures to achieve at least this minimum rate with regard to all subloans to
be made after December 31 of the year in which the calculation is made (Section
6.02 and Part A of Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01(a)
of the draft Guarantee Agreement). This would occur in the event that
inflation should rise above the level projected for 1985. Further, the
Government would monitor FONHAPO's economic cost recovery on the basis of a
formula incorporating a measure of the opportunity cost of equity capital and
dficuss the results of this exercise, as well as the calculated level of
capital recovery, during annual reviews of the FONHAPO program (Section 6.03
and Part B of Schedule 7 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.01(b) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
Economic Justification
71.       The project would permit the settlement of about 142,300 families in
serviced lots of which about 15,200 would include starter dwelling units.
Beneficiaries under the project would be non-wage workers earning less than 2.5
times the minimum wage. According to the 1980 Census, 72% of the economically
active population earn incomes below 3 times the minimum wage and 57% earn
income below 1.6 times the minimum wage. It is estimated that an average
sub-project of 500 ur.its would generate 216 temporary jobs over a period of 8
months.
72.       The economic rates of return for a sample of sub-projects already
implemented by FONRAPO have been calculated using the flow of rental value as a
proxy for economic benefits. Economic rates of return were estimated both
using sales prices paid for equivalent units after moving into project sites,
and also, using rental values derived from current levels of rent paid by the
target population before moving into subproject sites. Economic rates of
return range from 16X to 262.



- 23 -
Risks
73.       The main project risks are:  (1) the possible reduction in FONHAPO's
operational efficiency through rapid growth; (2) the availability of land sites
of adequate quality, quantity and price; (3) possible discontinuity in the
Government's housing sector policy; (4) shortfalls in beneficiaries repayments
to sub-borrowers which would raise the level of implicit subsidy in the
project.
74.       The risk related to FONHAPO's limited growth capacity would be
reduced by the provision of technical assistance, by concentrating the agency's
efforts on fewer large subprojects and through financial covenants. Problems
of land availability should be alleviated by FOHNAPO's program for financing
land acquisition and by SEDUE's special powers for advance purchase of land
reserves and priority utilization of public property. Discoutinuity in the
Government's housing sector policy relates to three possibilities. First, the
Government could find it difficult to sustain fiscal allocations to FONHAPO.
This would not affect the project since Government financing represents only a
portion of the planned 1985-88 investment program. Second, the Government
could seek alternative sources of funding for FONHAPO which could imply
modification to FONHAPO's rules of operations. Assurances were provided that
FONHAPO's Statement of Policy would not be altered in a manner that would
materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the project or the financial
situation of FONHAPO (para. 69). The Government could conceivably establish
new competitive housing credit schemes under softer terms than those offered by
FONHAPO. However, this is unlikely in view of the high level of commitment the
Government has accorded to the FONHAPO program. Finally, the risk of
shortfalls in beneficiaries' repayments to sub-borrowers would be mitigated by
closer monitoring and supervision procedures and technical assistance provided
by FONHAPO to the sub-borrowers.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de Obras
y Servicios Publicos, S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United
Mexican States and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4Ciii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors under separate cover.
76.       Special conditions of effectiveness and other covenants of the
project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
S.



24
PART VI   RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
July 18, 1984



-25-                                               I
T ^ A L J  =                         pq  of 5
- ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ III -i q.h   I _
-~~~~~                                             ~~t I n                                        ^
9LU 01 OL    l7S0  1_0.                    .                     1 .
*6 mm  (me)                        3L*      31 .0  73122.0 uns                 ._       -
(I_GRN O   I olvL                     33_ 0       773-0  2LUM         l       "l2S.3
PUU,.orAIIU,3-WA  C                31011.0     61360   Y0Ln. 
-M     ousuanu. CZ or torAL)         20.8        39.0      ".                66.6
SMATII   t W    ltN a U0                                109.4
P011a131 E 111 20 (NEL)                                 196.3        
STATIIUAI POUOIATIOCN Q IZ9)                              1
POPULATEN   ET                                  239         .
U  Q. 1.                            w.8         3.9       .1               33.7                      M2.9
PtS Sq. I1. AG. lAND                37.7       52.4      12.1              92.4                     156.9
PPUIATEOU MC ITAICIU CZ)
0-14 13                            43.6       4.3       443               39.9                      31.6
13.4 us1                            51.0       30.0     e2.2               56.0                      61.
65 AND AOtU                          3.4        3.3       3.4               4.1                       7.1
POPULAON 1G013 RAIE (IX)
TOTAL                                3.0        3.2       3.0               2.i                       1.6
133AM                               4.6         4.7       *.2               3.6                       3.7
CROE 3l RAM   (PER TIOUS)             45.4       43.4      33.9              31.3                      23.6
CRE OAIN RATE (MR IIUS)               12.2        9.7       7.1 t.1                                    3.J
GMOSS RZPaO=UCW  RI                    3.3        3.2       2.2               2.0                       1.b
PAIUL PUAINEU
ACCUTRS. AUAL (THOUS)                 ..       25.1   1143.0 M      
Sna cZ or HARRE  mcKE)                                   39.0 c            40.3
POOD 400 w2mEmu
MUX Of FOOD PROD  Mg CAPITA
(1969-11-100)                        97.0       Lo0.0    104.0              114.3                     114.3
KA CARTA SUPPLY 0r
CALORIES CX OF R  UIlIES)          117.0      112.0    121.0              110.6                     L23.6
P30131113 (QFS PER Day)            49.0        64.0      74.0              67.3                      69.7
Of 131M AMDWL ANID PULS           29.0       27.0      2J.0              34.1                      34.5
3IL.0 (taS 1-4) WRTIN RTt            10.3         6.5       4.0               3.7                       5.2
LFE EXPECT. AT SIEIN (WEARS)          57.0       61.3      65.4              64.7                      67.4
3IWANT 111T. RATE C(E TOM10)         91.1        73.6      52.9              60.4                      34.2
ACCESS TO SAFE lA7ER (2POP)
TOTAL                               23.5       49.0 to  51.0 /             63.4
tLAWGo ..                                       6.5      6 1  /.4.         Fe.1 
RURAL.                               ..        U1.0O    51.07 E6.2
ACCESS TO ZEXCA OISPOSAL
(Z 0? POPULAT1IUXJ
TOTAL                                ..        37.0      3.01.             52.9
URBAN                                ..        *o.o 7*   so5. 7'           67.0
RU_L                                  ..o7e   L3.07                        24.5
POPULATION lEa rATSIUCM             1630.0     1510.0       ..             1917.7                    1063.8
POP. EU NURSING 1SW0               3630.0      1390.0       ..                3.&                     764.4
POP. PE NosPtTAL BEo
TUtA                               390.0      970.0        ..             37.Z                      326.3
URN"                               370.0 If  11?0.0        ..             411.3                     201.5
RURAL                                ..      1370.0        ..            2.34.3
ADILSSIONS F      ITAL                  ..         ..        ..              27.3                     20.0
mom.
AVERAGE SE Of iOUSEabGLo
TOTAL                                5.4        3.7
CR3AM                                3.7        3.7
RURAL                                5.2        5.3
111RA13 N0. 0  PERSONSJWM
TOTAL                               2.9         2.5
13m                                 2.6         2.2
RURAL                                3.4        3.2
A-5B  TO ELEr. CE OP WULIN)
TO''rL                                .                    ....9
-AM                                  ..         0..7
-                alU~~I3.                              ..        27.6        ....



- 26 -
ANNEX I
TA  LS  34                                 Page  2 of 5
DUISCO                - SOCXAL  fICLu DM A SD
RU       oMcN (WEGlHED AVUAC8) La
MOIT                    CST  ET UUUN ATE)
maLt  1970L  RECENT  MIDDLE UC6        HIDDLC
tsnLbuNnernLt          LA. ANn A CAR                zuton
ADJSTED EICIUOLET310
pR;2XAKT   TOTAL                   30.0      104.0    121.0              105.4                   10. L
KALZ                    82.0       106.0    122.0             106.3                    103.3
PEaLE                   77.0       102.0    120.0             104.1                     96.7
SECOIDIATI TOTAL                   11.0       11.0     31.0              43.2                     51.1
SALE                    14.0        26.0     54.0              42.3                      6.9
PEALS                    3.0        17.0     43.0                .3                     500.6
VOCATIONAL (10? SEOOAU)             23.6        26.7     11.6              33.6                     21.6
PUPIL-TEACEI 3*T1O
PRanu                              ".o        46.0     37.0              30.I                     25.1
S0OWAMU                            13.0       14.0     13.0              1OJ                      10.3
ADILT LITEACT RATE CZ)              65.4        74.2     62.7              79.5                     75.6
PASSCNCEA.3II T/TOUSAND POP          12.9       24.1     61.3              46.0                     54.7
RADIO RECEIVRS/TEOUSAXD POP         89.0       273.7    295.4             225.6                    164.9
TV RCCEIVERSITHOUSAXD PO             17.5       58.5    106.1             107.2                    123.6
NESPAPL ('DAILY GCNUIL
INTER) CIRCILATIOS
PES THOUSAND POPUTLON              73.3         ..     64.5 f            63.5                     96.3
CDMA ANINL ATTENDACECAPITA           9.6         4.9      4.4               2.8                      2.9
LAM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOU)          S1191.0    14722.0  21398.0
E-ALE  PERCEST)                    Ls.2       17.4     20.0              23.2                     34.5
AGLICULTURJE (PERCENT)             55.1       45.2     35.6              31.5                     40.7
INUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5       22.9     25.8              23.9                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RAZE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.2       28.8     29.3              32.2                     42.9
KALE                               51.L       47.4     46.7              49.3                     54.7
FENALE                             9.2        L.1    11.7               15.2                     31.0
ECOOMIC DEMNCI RATIO                 1.6         1.7      1.6               1.4                      0.9
PESEN  0? PRIVATE ISCOE
RECEIED BY
HIGHEST 5S CP IWUSRNOLDS             ..         ..       .                  ..
HIGHEST 20z o7 EOTUSELOS          61.1 /h    60.7      57.7                ..
LOW8ST 20= of ROUELS               3.4 7ii     3.3      2.9 7..
LOWEST 402 O  OUSDOLDS             9.s.7       9.9      9.,                ..
LT=E  ASOL6TE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS nE CAPrTA)
CRN                                  ..         ..       ..             288.2
RURAL                                ..         ..       ..             134.0
ESTDT   RELATIVE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LW                                   ..         ..    471.0 Ie          322.8
AL                                  ..          ..    471.077           )72.4
ESTMATED POP. BLOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (2)
URA                                  ..         ..       .                  ..
RURAL                               ..          ..       .                  ..
NOT AVAILABLE
IIOT APPLICALE
N O T Z S
/a  The group aeraes for each LndIcator are populacion-lghtetd aritlmetlc means. Coverage of countries mog the
ludcatocs, depends on availability of datae nd Is not uuifoo.
/b  Unlear otherwise noted, "Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1953 and 1961; "Data for 1970- betwesn 1969 and
1971; and data for 11cr R cet KEtsat- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1979; /d 1977;  a Srmed from  acer supply and saweg; /f 1962; /r 1976; lh 1963.
,INE, 1984
: V. - 



Page 3 of 5
Joeou  enonnk a. "K.... 4... lem .me-    m.tiir 3e               ass -akewalo       l   -ad   tit    to utAWR' SIR. JRa .,  that thwmy -F SM  . ttt.eatl..Sty
seetdekn   1 tam L.a .1 .taieflld ifftiatie   Ra  t-mtg.   iw IV Slitu              meant1. It9etkite ok. do..  Wt. kistt.stmt,adm
iatt.  lI   1 nSoPAI.. idlOl tmea. ad AP.eusti  it..ens   m-f  Sl.wteat ket.e aSeo"tR.
.fjt  a. dattepi  I. Cal   i.t=.-.5   Iug.itpit' E g-pam~  Stuma. PWI    tee t., asties  seer se n.. S-tdw d- .t.eeee  Somaie..mu a.t                         t
at"istl"ite.    lo.1k  al.. iftm   in. sheeat     Estop otlirk am sdda  nia.d &             I- .w test isin-  a. 0     s. an. a.. .,-On,              mtsI.
nap tt1. i.. ga. e_a Ideate    re. Iek s..e-m it eaten.,                  a  edtsbtee    te -      It.W adtiiteltt  -1 itt  a  .  -  tslaat-te s IFtb.  ..kkatl se
t..n5u   It, leisitu  taltes at en    Mites -.emeS,   u.st ea              auwt. sirtttt i0to  ch.t   aimie 1555 dSat    -dtea  5* Et  al.   1kt  meat  a
le- .d a   q.h-a.)g-tmSr-swton,mtmtm                         .     - .!S   Pi        tJ nSltatrnis     lrlm- UtS    w..tdst dattS it ..har  t.1 eraales.
-,  -mea  .    .t-ta okoktIme  sad antv aS es   na"lt WiiISdId-ti1ra    She   .e aiq et1-niey i-.t
a   as   i mii                                                                      IVee.  resUZt.  per Hrte   leee 1- ft.l.il  ud5.di ha aat     pf-rl"as
o ar P.    Adt oscea peae C d- it -tu.. PRO-.                         -"RS .ass   sai.eat. SWOt4    -           APWRdfPm
-               ts~~iYia  tee tic sit-at  casts ~~~~--pw55 .1 taa-n.i                                        atee  Itnee le  .erit." sells ha S pbwlala (bal ha S aituti
toe  a-b     I.n.MF   .hlo                   9 dliii i-S..         4 lnain   tond   .M. S-  "Imi She at    ise  ta  ieue.
ION. -d  M   da-                                                  e".naw              w wIt   a,elem
- at .1 as, s~~~~~ sun. sea, as su.et  tans                         ..b
dilmmatde  tit. 1t        l-sr *1    :Wa 1atlt, .1 itta                                that. set  -It.. a btarif  -  iute -e, -  or          hat salahd J.
okanai  te,til  ais n.                            It. htoaast                          %    L.ele    oEtaesta   patpa.
rimpkinegg- PR m,  a-,  Ppilmapes   nte      a-t   .wt  a-tyei qut.Wownetstan"..M=
Pota. Plejtotot  nea.PW          . Ia  eteLlI, smIle Owt. .t  its                       .....l  e.et.-
semi. aand  lif  rinEn at tIn% tana ptil   metre  .c                                 AtE tPteiMApelele .te.ae .  haltlselM   -  Ih        tet=d  mi
apIs ie  teat, ad lease llr. easies  aeNttsiis  5 1.teIe    .t    tttltsiytIUia llelfl                                                               to-.'tMe
peit  -11i eot-m.sla  tat JuULYtoo..  t .&P   n  fle  k.ate                            It teet. -1ts,  a  .-Is hai.ee t.-eslaie.
sPt-e miftt.I Iltli  leat           t It lam   teiatpo  ad tt.s ai
tmlea- .4' aaidtF aR Cottageir sa-e em v mtas  pelpa.e.                                         itebue
Zaiin.lsis-  t me I   lIt me.- ad es            11est.   -int,tsu~r.sLitdA m                                                e..uai   l  -  la-ge
Isle h,. at      etm~  .q ta     . else me-Sip-t.st   etii                        mns5ti.e5ttmtaeet  .n  eti   leaeee   a-Rpt.lt
ee.tPiltss IstesU. "t an   t-ty           ,     twit eele.6   it fltat                   e.ea  me djt.te ..  dilties ieelk .ae.m. iala   It,
R-me  tIe  ase.   itJ .  tasaa   Jtpetl. tea me etee R-    t                              esa    at.u    I    ra..e  elet  tm                       e
elit. ~ -_  -Ri            hlu   epilusem    sit-                                        pea-     Iree.  m   5ie.        caet.titsIt      se- ,te-   t.-
It,   m aftt., a. in .teeafl- ra  it. tints ader.  it.                                  etati tvalsed.
titleS.et.ismeeteesamt. et  t sepatlts tt  i. nn1    t-           te".I II-eie.  umttaU-  e. "U.ea C.6.R. .ae -t
sM ei.W Su )le..Nettatte  ttl-  etiuat ei..ie,- 'I1 eltee-,titeI
~.n6Jit- i         -d- -a ttelA  Ie eqet i s.e.1. t.ee.,    el-                    milttttst   mlt.
ele,eleemtesie. inst39. a ssis.                                                      ii.,1".  11 ..r.,,e ea.-  tte-  t     -iar.   ASt Ied tp a e. - s tes-s -d
r.. a1-  C. .e.ne..   a          _es   St-t   etao -rnt.esd                                  taie .1 I.tt tP_t  MoetFt  at  *t ""al   I   It."
elisa   t)t.it I  ..ett.t-Otit VtZ.5  Ima-1t.t.R. t.-=lttlt     lat                                                                               ottwt
it   0-n,a   atie VP-.A -ac  me-tar L a bleMt,,esa  5d--rtt                       Pmet.ate       M.n  ; tt eat   petta  -_ ts..7u  lt.  emyr1t. set,
patatietiitt..141 lety,     sic1 dha                                                   t   mt            I   t0Imtheeeeleetaa.lm    at.,e
1W lInns enII"' Z  & -     . m   meet-           .L -.                       ea-dit         - tetl.,t r eetomaete    - *5er  at ele-   It~. e
r.e itilseat haeltat    eat-aldm    ae  at ere                                           irdea. -e.aei   it-p. eA              m   a   nateetati
peism t  Ie1105.iOth.sislii                                                                iaefetl  510.2 m1e, aR.               pe-ale4-    n Iteei .   re&l.W
F-e Intb.(i   e-a      edI-ti   i   k                             tS-.   a- to   I ttS.f   dp .ta  eats  J-   t-hai.ai.c .m
'o_o   --m     -  --M  wolyII-m   ti peil ftee  iaie Lz itaiets.tsai  t.se
-    lm    a   m deka..e  tit ht, I       It   nm             ii  tattat  eliaall  at, -it- met me-ttIts
Mtttt    smst,fnyt                    -Jm en.   se.  e.                             aeitm.  iteern   lst  ..ett.dt.  -eWtais
2it.                                                                                     pelstsbte    eiee   Iemtieemeta..15i  sedn
1.1  S et,-a        .   mt.  eewti-   t_  She*1                                                    -Piet- hdit-l  Iw .  I iea..d %stLee .tt
I t     StUdten..-e at- lstt                   talameitR 
tili.e.eltltm   et -te     .. Cb-4ti-fl,           1-fitto It a                    t.Lt-kW  i..  teia-..s.l.t       - __-- - lati. aMit. pattt. .eelIec 
mitstltstlape I ind e5 tar ak,                      %- eena.                    etd.t.      eawtt-  tee- et--itat emsi.,t .a.t..t nt
b-W  Pd-  pft- -981-9 19U-S. 1974. -d lookte_.,."Ii dko..                           tl        a   .,
~  jteieutlt            lame. av Ptr t.ie I..,SC                                     -W       F-. - itrate  at SReI  tke ta.P..Li
e-l dto.  oos-.t tecifi atsA   17.d  "     . amteen- te bst- ttt'.r ktftsp-J -
us  s   t      ..ise ao   it, C    tett.Wql    -I., less,Co.  -. le.                *ietq     - en        .1  .t. tae 'M    et  sin, st as  tlet -        S
ene.   isa   at- seat)             SSA L-- Uit   d anti. a:-nt   (1.M-r                        t        -  tateI,.  5.- Slt.  aie5,tmleiu a
isa.            ,i.n5 .otgIM-    -0   --.                                              ta-m   t  (sttte - ftnt. let  ~         ta-Is   fttt'sim  ta J
tmfl M"nWlaa.a111        e siOLW-Ints tio"a   em-   air %Pa  -4tIaP..ttne.                                a.a.   ak tSimisnm  tciane.tnt
o=r.   betiatit   wE.  an         -as    pl-itatin, twee  le-                            ti-.        .   esda.I..enei-le.eelismtt
P" 5a   itia.   tp.tae,S   taue5                         E=at  fee meted  , it-  
-  uwir at ee  ~      Mae ",'a s tr.dt J. dnata                                     - .    -tia. name   itP-elt. P--e                            P-tne.t   etue   tm   .1
1et.a ~ .. all aM n 0- mA-dleta   Itsf- peea- ematkt-                                   b.lt
isa. patt at as  st .m Stht ha .daot1~"    07    _                                                                 =    p-. t p-.5*L-I.. me
-t mist .ee-t. -  a    m     lee i. ari. uIa    "id) J. t' i-tt                         em         ...d... ea .tt  Sth nt.d.  . tals
Tus taiu rod lepetrI sus-es, Isle ai i in. da-se.ti ea.  est..    ea    se  - tan aM                                                                    - tIn
Cstim  leap  .,- al ad0 I ea-   It trea  my AR--  fdt.t P-  et-d let                     ateiet.detir th a-till tltaeetI  atL-fid   nt.m                   -.In
Id              R  ...                                                             aS-,    =eri ase. -R                 R        L
Cmi it    -t bafte te. t   tien l-9 JU et a.7       it   as   n dsut   .a                            bait.-    t.te t,   (islz I-J.e taste)  f-uta .1o  -at
"0    - M     e         tta  1Si  milcane      eut    psahelt. (tune, a C- tne -t"sa an  Dt.ttec
-ett hette. .Itth-.lt tfl   -                  ie   -St el Im.  S  
1W.-S me p., tM-` isa teiha -siW tiMme tho cht.,%
ato.aatJa  ten"  NW t   Violate .  1  .t tat w.t,  ..    i..S   t
s..er meeir (tairmset  eme.   ue  anual  ham t                                                                             ra        slI  aesteaahet
doatedU   ate   ans  ta  a-  pam-te s-ee. St M- tn                t,,aemse
estytIt)S   eme  S   te   aten. ch.                 14 tas.P I- -a
tuke- tlt.1pti. -1a..-,                  tssm    meaaas



,In Jam -a    IM1   all. A - A MIU    s
M1L a o=m 13  3wN MN
N  "m1 atl    t -in1I a              au m          ni um SW is
n.m   lI'wt                       tirt  ira                  sc                   *u  irma                     n   Ino n
_att  _ris.                       Ill   ins                  sea                  irga  Yel                  mi   i                                mium a
SW   iS                           W5    Wl           _        i                          wEst                       gma  t
WII I Mm[m I Er SICg                                        A    mi              31*15                       AlME                                    SR I"
_ us _t
sen 1u :"In                                                         wanaO-aIs am                                        AnmuM.
CI                                                            Wl WnCt oni      t   et  *                               It_
Km                    Ohl3                                                    WaS44Mm   07hZ  3w       Wu                          aiiaa3
t~~~~~~~~~~~mo  AOW mm                                                 m         ge n    7- wo            VMAl                         mn  _
tWt                                                          1113  WS   Wa   In                           milU   -  ma  3
~~~~~~~~~~~~*seq                              1*11   it  11   K          , *           _A5. I aa
Sn                              tl  urn  att  rn                                         *             _mi  ii_
ZIlUC wt it 1               *
as-a    wa sIac Wm
*--                                                           n     Wt     a       - 1al                 , 
"InsU Y                                                        us  l'    Wa            ..W
A"r                                                         a-c- I1,-   it   se    ir3 guJ 1a
19 IWE    W        Illit ila   11101  l                        mallm   mm
it           a1  as  WII  09                                        am* 
* ml*i   at                  s   a ls   rs   si          is i am  siC1
*      -za   a-t  a-it  5111 wa.  Lu   ara                                 zalan 1
arm   irm    ia   en    azi   is,    w    as-u>  arm                                    *am"
WMA IN                                                                               AiS  ll  CE  hwl 511  1  U-D 31
ia-nt  Yiii  a-au  rn-as I ai  nal  w e, al   on                               113111 _3EDI
li'u  ilLIl  11'1  UIt   Wl- l 131   WI   ill    gm                             lh   imM
tAm   tim   SAie  9*13   ma   afilH n5   KI    Will                                    momrJ 311
Kll   59    15   151*   1W  lAb  13g   AZ  Itt'                         smaim amo-m
l, mm's       l    u ut    Am    151    Ql   31   I0 t      Y             - X ls  l
Wmal   a,"   Km    am    WI&    I awl          alL DI    Ulu                   MI fN uaIMm]
tSUE    1  ma     I     tC   tIE   11/1   gu       iasu    it
inst  agal  511  taut  maw   tai1 sle awL   a-         n              1al_ _lijCW
t%"   Ku    OR    LI  man lKn an        Kau    ml           an    ir an          am ii.
_ _                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ....
Vat  151   a.as  Irs              ml   er    in.."  ni    sa    rn-uasi   ses   CIa   rSY   &i.M   U.S   UII                                         CIbI
tm.i   *     g  11i-at             s    WI   CL    *i           *1         gram   Use   Wm       -i   IDu   W-    na   &IIm                11 wi1a-
main                                                                                                                             ilIaC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  m  R m  u  r    NC 1I m    311035
'^1 5  *1'11   W  lilt   rIS      aim  esl e-    a   asen                    it  UK    an    g-i   gm    Ki-s    -lt        m                      mmi uv -mia
in-   mi-i-  lfl-  ti-I-          Z C It* l       t C    1 C-al     ace    t'lml  ga-mm- n-um      at-l       gms-  IND ml-  tu--                    11   ole o1
mill   Wit  u.s  trsi  Ca   n-i   wag   ama       ~~~~~~~~~wa    "ml  gmi    Wun  got  Ini   lIsm   Kui    gu                       mire, 14411
ILG oralit   Wle  EU              4L    I-   Li   La                311   1131   WE   55-ic        lH so   *0115          LE                         O        1Wu
IL-I  Ills  Itl'    u's           ams    WI   emI   lent             Wz11t  an      t    -tlm geaI                           mmii                        ut A
|"16   ua    altttu               al      7    on,W                 9.01 DI    Ul    IC    01    Ul    Ifl    W*   dill                              WNq *l 4am b s
PWl  tWi   P'ta-  3*5*           tl'   It'                          Wit  Iti  Ct         N.M 11_      Ill   5it    gi-  lai- Y
lolt   Lam   u'sa   ggt                  in    mlI  WI              ***     l3     .    all"   LI"   Wtl   gm.   "it  1*                           IA  *3I  Na
miF#'- it  U'F 'ea    '    '        it  Li-   Lam   Il        '     W*l1  S1 'l  St Wt  SW              It    W     Lt   US              t               , U
VMS4  "lIN   CC,I  caml           u-,s LI       W a,   aelm                       mmi ea   RIK mau mi    mIt  Miii9  3mlii                   all      IS111n
ins-  u-a-  ca-  Isa-             ml    W-   -t'    -It             UV*   ne-  tea-  11`1-  grit-  Wi-  CI4  Wm-  %-in-                          aiua   N m 111N
1l-El  "aIn    ut  cml            ol   eW       Wl   l'U s            " 1U         ut1,   *iw  Utla   tm   I%la  taL   otl                              s Um 
wmt Wm U i oIN   am sIu                              $oum 
lsi   a'    Is,       6    _      14,91 malv   al   as              Wu   11"    Ul  IUI 11,1  "2                9Itl al                            tamtMi N
mat  mI  mm          a110         al-imi cm       l -iat            aIM   Nl   sitm    ma Wm          tam  _mt   mm    eisN
* isa ma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~=,I0W    m  mU=II
11Am                                                       imum        -"       -   *
. .
fal   ml   ml    um  *401 0.181 slqw   U-11M  mm     ml   id od obt     m   lmi    ml    ml    ubt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
opin                                                        ?Mm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAINN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ,



- 29;'
Kmms retmmns  mmn manTN  ur - so                                                             Nall
do  NIWSM aT 1391p613                                                              PM6IF55
AMn                                     "Amin
.23.?  MIS S P61205 ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     im      in      i       i    IO i        m      t
mu        .m ,inm  no                    3113,   479    29    2942    2724   M161  26425   3Ull   534
559    MLNK                              -761   -3117   -31232  -496     56 3      5IO  1410    3622     3141
Ut 106 2331                              -42   -345    IBM    -15411  -I59       a    -ti21i  -ISS   -AM9
hunTW  P61361                           -29    -8362    -1476   413   -11324   -51   -I3la  -3361   -1222
pHmit 5831 tun.                         -ma    -4574   -13M  -3344   -4269M     9565   3967    -416   -2276
IMiE  mast 3113MIT                        to      ml    1isa     IIrn      6      34     iii1     a
IIC 0. all LIE 75 ur. KT                  2*4     243    1574                        IILI IN  3s1  U61    IM  F1a
*UN INTif                               ON     642   6UN    139  1 352    I212         =3    9216   23413
UP6IeJIU                                561    410    M626    UN 1      11    193    1I        124   13233
W  mEns                                    -       -     -in    -in?      mx    IM.    ass    am         -Mo
R        CIO tIt                          "66    4224    2246    215_ -_T4 -_4_     .   -7      -an    -_El
nil,1 Ii 356    1-IKUENAE                -in2    -34    -I622     65    4445   -456  I-3646       Mi   -539"
mM  LLaTIE                                 a       -       74     70              --       -       -       -
MM t aM u.mutsM
PJUC ME. M L.. La
M                                      144.3  230.   4.   1611.3  W3.9"  746.X
INA
-UI .IAlAIL                              SLO    23    336 2Il*  2661.26   Wss
-                                        1.3  SLA      2.l   412.0  3173.1  2Z6.76
IAFLM                   '.3   3:.U   U-1SE   29.6   1417.3   3.76I
MGMrMCI    ncsI                 c       L       *4n*  -4"79 U11.-S 1117  -ILU    4 MN
NWr MarD mmIC
rm_ w mlar mute   alh na              1       rs   sne    z.                  *11a ID                                                           em   ma1
aI        ra s Mm  KIT t                12.0  uio  3n Lm  4oLs           71S  m.2         maam   M 1IN E11
waist  u sic  NWt                       an   75m   467 69.76 3fl       3      23" 63.96
mUl   i U Sni  li  5                  6     3 126.0 721.  119.10  21240  M26                                                                        MS  31, m2I
USEN  OMU MaMn WntiL  N &, LT.
ural M         m                     -s  -s  2A   23$  aLIt11.]1                                                             -                           utm FINEI
-  IIE  VltilL t 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35276   ^ 4.4h47 R
AVW Sf   WFSLIC M iniiii                                                                                                 MO  OFF. WAES                       766    11.19
a.  MONEITuMFZSWME             1       7.     2  I LlS 2114.                  32                   t1114                                                      42M 42 O   *  Sal    3.13
L...   M  A.                                                                                                           WA
I. USEW  N1311W7M CLU                   -      A.3    9.93    LI70    4.9      LO
mu - .   r
a    3.    NLL11    lIP                1L26    9.161  4L1S   144   5.35    6.3
ra T.t u.e m a . urn.2t
r . MImNW VIKIUI a W7.                             7.34    23.     LU      3.49    4.64
at. AiLm  eMR  at  ugM  M EM  rUa aT ar t(M.
UT 311* EInilMat  it   1             M   TIE ROL
ImamaOKs 32I,53 M O STiF ESteS.
I TsIOU



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as of March 31, 1985)
Loan                                                             Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrover                Purpose             Cancellations   buried
58 loans fully disbursed                   3,495.2
1553-5    1978     NAFINSA                  Agriculture              56.0          0.5
1643-5    1979     NAFINSA                  Small-scale Agri.        60.0          3.3
1706-5    1979     NAPINSA                  Irrigation               92.0         46.7
1712-5    1980     NAFINSA                  Industry                175.0         31.8
1820-5    1980     NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Mining           40.0         18.9
1858-5    1980     NAFINSA                  Irrigation              160.0        147.9
1881-5    1981     NAFINSA                  Small and Medium
Scale Industry        100.0          1.5
1908      1981     NAFINSA                  Irrigation               23.0          4.6
1913      1981     BANOBRAS                 Water Supply            125.0         72.7
1929      1981     BANOBRAS                 Railways                150.0         48.3
1945      1981     NAFINSA                  Rainfed Agriculture    264.6         104.3
1964      1981     BANPESCA                 Port Development         10.0          6.5
1990      1981     BANOBRAS                 Urban Development II   164.0         119.6
2042      1982     NAFINSA                  Technical Training       90.0          6.2
2043      1982     NAFINSA                  Integrated Rural
Development           175.0        111.9
2100      1982     NAFINSA                  Irrigation. Rehab II    65.0          61.7
2142      1982     NAFINSA                  Capital Goods
Industry              152.3        117.4
2154      1982     NAFINSA                  Pollution Control        60.0         49.4
2191      1983     NAFINSA                  San Fernando Agri.       48.4         41.8
2194      193     BANOBRAS                 Urban Engineering         9.2          6.3
2262      1983     NAFINSA                  Agri. Marketing         115.0         92.8
2281      1983     BANOBRAS                 Third Water Supply      100.3         88.0
2325      1983     NAFINSA                  Third Small Medium
Industry              175.0       134.2
2331      1983     BANCONEXT                Export Development      350.0        294.5
2428      1984     BANOBRAS                 Highways                200.0        164.4
2450      1984     BANPESCA                 Ports                    76.3         76.1
2454      1984     NAFINSA                  Agricultural Credit    300.0          97.6
TOTAL                                          6,831.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank            1,365.7
Total now outstanding                           5,465.6
Amount sold                  92.3
of which has been repaid    92.3                    0.0
Total now held by Bank 2/                       5,465.6
Total undisbursed                                            1,948.9
1/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
-     2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                    US$ Million
Year          Obligor                     Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect'
Circle, S.A. /1              Industrial Equipment          0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul            0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1            Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monte_rey, S.A.  Steel                           2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     TuboP    Acero de Mexico,
S.... /1                     Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1        Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment          -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1       Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.|1       Textiles                     12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                  /2      /2     /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                       15.9    -      15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper               10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                 19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3       Cement                      168.0    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                         -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrical Wire and Cable  18.0    -          18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particleboard                  25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                      Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Hinera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3              Mining                      110.0    -    110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                 59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                     Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
i984     Metalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories            3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility          Industrial Equipment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Prcteison                       Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                    16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                    705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                  540.4   22.1  562.5
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                          164.2   26.1  190.3
Total Undisbursed (including participants)                  150.9    6.5  157.4
/1    Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
/2    US$25,000.
/3    Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
LINE OF CREDIT FOR LOW INCOME HOUSING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: 8 months
(b) Project prepared by:  FONHAPO
(c) First Bank mission to review project: March 1984
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: August 1984
(e) Negotiations completed: June 26, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1985
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would carry out a Housing Policy Study, and  discuss the
study's conclusions and recommendations not later than December 31, 1986
(para. 45).
(b) FONHAPO would prepare and forward to the Bank, for comment, not later
than December 31; 1985 a tecIrici' assisLancte program based on an
evaluation of sub-borrowers' requirements and carry out such program not
later than March 31, 1986 (para. 50).
(c) Not later than December 31, 1985, FONHAPO would forward to the Bank for
its comments a program to monitor the economic, financial and social
impact of sub-projects. This program would be adopted not later than
March 31, 1986. The preliminary results and values of agreed monitoring
indicators would be forwarded to the Bank beginning March 31, 1986 and
annually thereafter. FONRAPO would, by December 31 of each year, forward
to the Bank for review and comment, the proposed investment program for
the following fiscal year as well as the final evaluatiwn of activities
during the previous fiscal year (para. 63).
(d) FONHAPO would, by December 31, 1985, furnish to the Bank for its comments
the results of a study of FONHAPO's medium term financial viability. The
recommendations of the study, would be adopted not later than December
31, 1986 (para. 51).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) FONHAPO would adopt the Statement of Policy (condition of effectiveness)
(para. 69).
(f) BANOBRAS would enter into contractual arrangements with the Government
providing for the transfer of loan funds to FONHAPO as equity
contributions of the Government and repayment of the loan by the
Government (condition of effectiveness) (para. 60).
(g) FONHAPO would calculate expected capital recovery on a yearly basis for
typical sites and services and progressive construction subloans and
would forward results to the Bank by March 31 of each year. If in any
year capital recovery, calculated in accordance with agreed assumptions,
falls below 50%, FONHAPO would take appropriate measures to increase
capital recovery to such level (para. 70).
(h) The Government would monitor FONHAPO's economic cost recovery on the
basis of a formula acceptable to the Bank and to exchange views on the
results of this calculation during annual reviews of the FONHAPO program
(para. 70).
.-F



