Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16259
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1934-UG)
January 28, 1997
Human Development
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization l



UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of Project Appraisal
Uganda Shillings 60 = US$ I
At the time of project completion mission
Uganda Shillings 1000 =US$ 1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1-June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMREF         Africa Medical Research Foundation
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CMS           Central Medical Stores
DANIDA        Danish International Development Agency
DHSP           District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
FHP           First Health Project
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Agency
KAP           Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
KCC           Kampala City Council
MOH           Ministry of Health
NGOS          Non Governmental Organizations
NRM            National Resistance Movement
ODA           Overseas Development Agency (United Kingdom)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
SIDA          Swedish International Development Agency
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
STI           Sexually Transmitted Infections
Vice President             Callisto E. Madavo
Director                  James W. Adams
Technical Manager         Ruth Kagia
Task Manager               Mary T. Mulusa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  .....................................           ...........................    i-v
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction .................................................................1
Project Objectives ................................................................. 2
Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................................  2
Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................................  6
Project Sustainability ................................................................ 7
Borrower's Performance ....................      ............................................ 8
Bank's Performance ................................................................. 9
Assessment of Outcome ................................................................   9
Future Operations ................................................................    10
Key Lessons Learned ................................................................  11
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table  I a - Summary of Assessments: Rehabilitation of Health Facilities.
Table  lb - Summary of Assessments: Health Education and Community Activities.
Table  Ic - Summary of Assessments: Strengthening the Delivery of Health Care
Table  2  Related Bank Credits
Table  3  Project Timetable
Table  4  Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
Table  5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table  6  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table  7  Studies Included in Project
Table  8  Project Costs
Table  9  Project Financing
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
Appendix A       Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B       Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C       Civil Works Costs
Appendix D       Utilization of Rehabilitated Hospitals
Appendix E       Ministry of Health Budget
Appendix F       Map of Uganda. No. IBRD 25052R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authority.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Cr. 1934-UG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Health Project
in Uganda, for which Credit 1934-UG in the amount of SDR 30.8 million (US$ 42.5
million at the prevailing exchange rate) was approved on June 23, 1988, and made
effective on January 11, 1989.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1996 (the original closing date). The last
disbursement took place on September 25, 1996', and an undisbursed balance of SDR 1.9
million (US$ 2.76 million, at the prevailing exchange rate) was canceled on the same date.
Co-financing for the project was provided by the Swedish International Development
Agency (US$ 6.5 million) and the Government of Austria (IJS$ 10.0 million).
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Mary Mulusa, Human Development Unit, Eastern
and Southern Africa and reviewed by Mrs. Ruth Kagia, Technical Manager, AFTHI, and
Mr. James Adams, Country Director for Uganda. The Borrower reviewed the draft report
before it was finalized.
Preparation of this ICR was started in February, 1996, during the Bank's final
supervision mission. An ICR mission comprising Ms. Mary M. Mulusa (Team Leader),
Ms. B. Helbling (Operations Officer), Mr. F. Walker (Architect), Ms. H. Nannyonjo
(Operations Officer), and Dr. K. Grant (Physician, ODA), was undertaken between August
12-23, 1996. This report is based on material in the project files and information collected
during the Bank's final project completion mission. The Borrower contributed to this
ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and implementation
experience (Appendix B).
July 31, 1996 was the final date for payments under the credit - an allowance of four months following
project closing (March 31, 1996) was approved by IDA. An exception was made to allow for one last
payment on a civil works contract for work completed by the project closing date.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
(Cr. 1934-UG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The First Health Project (FHP) became effective on January 11, 1989 and closed
on March 31, 1996. It is the first IDA credit in the health sector in Uganda. The World
Bank has been involved in the social sectors in Uganda through the implementation of five
education sector credits. Four of these credits are closed, while the Fifth Education
project is currently under implementation. The Program for Alleviation of Poverty and
Social Costs of Adjustment Project (PAPSCA) 2 which was approved in 1990 and closed
on September 30, 1995, provided support to some health activities targeting vulnerable
groups. Two health sector projects, the Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (Credit
2603-UG) and the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration (Credit 2679-UG) are
being implemented as a follow-up to the FHP and became effective on July 22, 1994, and
July 17, 1995, respectively.
Project Objectives
2.    The objectives of the FHP were: to carry out urgent rehabilitation and equipping of
selected health care facilities; to build a hospital in Rakai District; to strengthen preventive
health programs through health education and community activities; and to improve the
long-term effectiveness of the health care system through institutional development and
improved internal efficiency. The project was later modified to provide urgent support to
mitigate the effects of the AIDS epidemic, to take account of changes in the scope of
physical rehabilitation, and to prepare for the projects mentioned above.
3.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives of the FHP were consistent with
the needs of the sector and the country at that time. It was the first major project in the
health sector following two decades of civil strife in Uganda. It was necessary to restore
a critical number of health facilities to support a minimum level of service provision and
to begin the process of developing a sustainable health delivery system. The project
design was appropriate and responded to these two needs. Changes made to the project
objectives were appropriate as it was necessary to review priorities based on the
implementation experience and the improved data that became available over time and to
prepare for the future health sector reforms.
2  Credit 2008-UG.



Evaluation Summarv                                             Page ii of v
Covenants and Agreements Expected to Promote Achievement of Project Objectives
4.    A number of key covenants were incorporated into the project. The Ministry of
Health (MOH) undertook to provide adequate funds for health services including the
development of cost recovery schemes and involvement of the community in financing
local health facilities. The MOH would also carry out a number of studies: a manpower
and management study (to establish staffing standards for the rehabilitated facilities as
well as for the whole public health system); a study of the health information system; a
study on the efficiency and effectiveness of the health system; and, a study on the
community-based distribution system for drugs, supplies and condoms. The MOH also
agreed to establish management committees for each hospital and health center and a
Health Education Coordination Committee to oversee the implementation of the
preventive health education program. The covenants were comprehensive and appropriate
for achieving project objectives. Most of them were accomplished though this took longer
than originally anticipated.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Achievement of Objectives. Overall, the project was satisfactory. Objectives were
substantially achieved for the components on physical rehabilitation and for strengthening
health services delivery. The component on health education and community activities
achieved some of its objectives but it was less successful than the other two components.
6.    Physical Rehabilitation and Equipping of Health Facilities. The objectives of this
component were substantially achieved; key areas of the main teaching and referral
hospital (Mulago), eight district hospitals, forty health centers and a research center were
rehabilitated, a new health center was built in Rakai district and equipment was provided
to most of these facilities. There is marked improvement in the condition of the facilities
that were rehabilitated. While the civil works were fully completed, major problems were
experienced during project implementation. Higher than expected costs (the mid-term
review noted that civil works costs were 77% above estimates), delays in construction, and
shortfalls and delays in the release of counterpart funds were issues during
implementation. The MOH adjusted the scope of works in response to the higher costs.
Our review indicates that appropriate adjustments were made and that the central problem
was that the original cost estimates were based on insufficient site inspection and
inadequate data. Implementation of this component also suffered from complicated inter-
governmental clearance procedures and an initially weak Project Implementation Unit
(PIU). The persistent shortfalls in counterpart funds were largely part of the overall fiscal
constraint faced by the Government. The restored facilities reinstated services in areas that
had been most adversely affected by the civil strife. Utilization rates have increased for
most of the facilities. In a few cases, however, facilities are underutilized due to low
population density and inadequate operational budgets.
7.    Health Education and Community Activities. The objectives of strengthening
preventive health programs through health education and community activities were only



Evaluation Summary                                           Page iii Qfv
partially achieved. Activities to increase the number of people reached with health
messages through newspapers and the radio were implemented. Training was provided to
journalists and educators to enhance the quality of health messages in the newspapers,
television and radio. A coordination mechanism between the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting and the Ministry of Health was established and a number of NGO health
activities were supported. However, several planned activities under this component were
not carried out: the purchase of equipment to boost transmission by public radio stations;
a number of innovative ideas for carrying health messages; and development of a
community based distribution system for drugs and supplies including renovation of the
Central Medical Stores. The main reason for failure to carry out these activities was the
inability of different government agencies to agree on procurement procedures and
evaluation of bids received (the procurement of radio transmitters was, for example,
eventually not carried out).
8.    Strengthening the Delivery of Health Care Services. The objectives of this
component were substantially achieved. Planning, monitoring and evaluation in the
MOH were strengthened through technical assistance and training. With support from the
project, the MOH prepared "The White Paper on Health Policy" in 1993 and a "Three-
Year Health Plan Frame" (1993/94-1995/96). The process of strengthening district
capacity for health services management (planning, budgeting, and accounting) was
initiated and health plans were prepared for all districts in Uganda. Facility-level
management was enhanced through the establishment of management committees with
community participation. A quality assurance unit was established to oversee the quality
of health services. However, other aspects of the component fell below expectations: the
health information system was not fully developed though some work on it was started
and health care financing schemes, especially user charges, were not developed as
expected. This has been largely due to political and economic constraints. A framework
for working with NGOs was not developed until the last years of the project.
9.    Disbursements. The credit was signed on July 11, 1988 and became effective on
January 11, 1989. It was completed on March 31, 1996 instead of June 30, 1995. The
credit closed on March 31, 1996, as originally scheduled but an additional 4 months was
allowed for payment of existing commitments for a number of civil works contracts. The
credit disbursed a total of SDR 28.9 million (US$ 40.48 million) and an amount of SDR
1.9 million (2.76 million) was canceled. The SIDA grant of US$ 6.5 million and the
Austrian grant of US$ 10 million were fully disbursed. The Government contribution
amounted to only US$ 3.5 million out of the planned US$ 6.5 million and this slowed
down implementation especially in the first three years of the project. The counterpart
funding problem was not unique to the First Health Project as the Government was facing
severe resource constraints.
10.   Performance of the Borrower. The Government was committed to the project and
took most of the necessary policy decisions, however, project implementation faced
considerable constraints during the first two years. Implementing agencies were not
adequately consulted during preparation and ownership of the project was centered on



Evaluation Summarv                                                       Page iv of v
the PIU. This contributed to the inability to reach consensus on a number of issues
especially procurement of critical inputs for the project. In addition, the PIU was weak,
release of counterpart funds was often delayed and the amounts insufficient to fully fund
project components. Audit qualifications took long periods to resolve. The mid-term
review proposed useful suggestions for addressing problems that had arisen during the
first four years of implementation. Following the mid-term review, the Government took
steps to address these problems. Qualified staff were hired in the PIU. Technical
assistance and training was provided for the PIU and the MOH management. Counterpart
funds were provided and actions were taken to address audit qualifications. Overall, there
was a notable improvement in performance in the latter half of the project.
11.   Performance of the Bank. During project appraisal, the Bank recognized
implementation risks that included: inadequate capacity at the MOH; uncertainty over the
feasibility of developing alternative financing mechanisms for the sector; and low
motivation of underpaid Government staff. In addition, costs were not easy to determine
given the paucity of data during project preparation. However, the Bank did not pay
sufficient attention to the ability of the Government to provide counterpart funds. The
Bank also did not involve all the implementing agencies in the design of the project. A
number of major problems particularly on civil works (proposed Rakai hospital) and
procurement (e.g. radio transmitters) took a long time to resolve. The Bank could have
been more proactive in assisting the Government to come to closure on the issues in a
shorter time than it took. The above notwithstanding, the Bank was responsive to
implementation constraints and assisted the Government to restructure the activities in line
with changing priorities. The Bank also later encouraged collaboration among the
different implementing agencies during the course of project implementation.
12.   Plansforfuture project operations and sustainability. A number of actions are
already being undertaken to sustain project investments. Project activities are being
supported through the regular MOH budget that has been increased in the last few years.
Guidelines have been issued to facilities to set aside a portion of their revenues from user
charges (20%) for maintenance needs. However, despite the above actions, budgeted
funds are not adequate to meet the minimum levels of maintenance and operational needs
for the rehabilitated facilities. Health education activities are being strengthened through
improved communication between the health education department and the technical
departments. In addition, two IDA-funded projects were prepared as a follow-up to the
FHP project. Both projects carry forward the health sector reform process in addition to
their specific focus. Institutional capacity building is also being strengthened through the
The STI project objectives are: (i) to prevent sexual transmission of HIV; (ii) to mitigate the personal
impact of AIDS; (iii) to support institutional development to manage HIV prevention and AIDS care.
The DHSP project objectives are: (i) to pilot test new sector policies and strategies which will facilitate
implementation of essential health services; (ii) to strengthen management and planning capacity at
district levels to provide essential health services, and (iii) to restructure the Ministry of Health so as
to build its capacity to provide health policy leadership and to support the Government's
decentralization policy.



Evaluation Summary                                             Page v of v
Government's implementation of the civil service reform, the decentralization policy and
the health sector reform. A sector strategy for the next five years is being developed by
the MOH to identify priorities for new investment. It will be important for the strategy to
also address the sustainability of investments being undertaken in the sector.
Key Lessons Learned
13.   Key lessons learned are summarized below:
(1) Government commitment to the project was critical to its success. As imp!ementation
proceeded the increased commitment was reflected in improved implementation
performance. In addition, the Uganda Government took many of the necessary policy
decisions that included the articulation of the health sector policy in the "White Paper"
and the development of a three-year plan.
(2) The health sector in Uganda requires additional resources from the Government
budget as well as through the development of alternative sources of financing.
Development of alternative sources of financing for the health sector involves a wider
range of reforms in the sector. More attention should also be given to ensuring adequate
counterpart funding for projects.
(3) The support provided to the sector under the First Health Project was of an emergency
nature and while it has contributed to improving health services, much more still needs to
be done to get the health system to a functional level. The Government cannot possibly
address the needs of the sector by itself and it will be critical to identify ways in which all
resources, public, private (including NGOs) and from donors, can be brought together to
address the needs of the sector. Hence, it is critical for the Government to shift away from
narrowly defined projects to a sector wide approach.
(4) For project implementation, all stakeholders should be consulted during project
design. Implementation agencies should be involved as well and responsibilities for
implementation clearly defined. Procurement procedures should be agreed upon and
included in an implementation manual. Detailed procurement plans and documentation
should be prepared during project appraisal.



I



PART I: Implementation Assessement                              Page I of 13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT 1934-UG
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:              Uganda, First Health Project
Credit No.         1934-UG
Credit Amount      US$ 42.5 million
RVP Unit           Human Development 1, Africa Region (AFTH1)
Sector             Human Development
Introduction
1 .    Uganda went through two decades of civil strife beginning in the early 1970s.
During this time, the health system virtually collapsed. Health facilities were destroyed
and equipment and supplies looted. Staff went unpaid for long periods of time and drug
supplies were insufficient. The health status of Ugandans deteriorated dramatically. The
immediate challenge for the Government in 1986, was to put in place a health system to
address the most urgent problems including a resurgence of diseases such as measles and
malaria. In addition, the new Government was faced with a growing AIDS epidemic.
The Government established a Health Policy Review Commission in 1986 to make
recommendations on how to restore health services. The report of the commission
provided a framework for the development of a national health policy, "The White Paper
on Health Policy". It was also decided to prepare a national health plan that would
identify priority areas in the health sector. The Government sought assistance to support
its efforts. The First Health Project was a "fast track" response to this need. The project
was prepared and appraised between January - February, 1988 and became effective on
January 11, 1989. It was closed on March 31, 1996 as scheduled. An amount of SDR 28.9
million was disbursed out of the IDA credit of SDR 30.8 million, SDR 1.9 million was
canceled. The SIDA grant of US$ 6.5 million and the Austrian grant of US$ 10 million
were fully disbursed. The disbursement record is particularly commendable given the
difficulties encountered in the course of implementing the project.



PART I: Implementation Assessement                               Page 2 of 13
Project Objectives
2.    The project's main objectives were to carry out urgent physical rehabilitation of
selected health care facilities; construct a hospital in Rakai district (which was hardest hit
by the AIDS epidemic); strengthen preventive health programs; and improve internal
efficiency and long-term sustainability of health care delivery. To achieve these
objectives the project provided funds to: (a) rehabilitate key areas of Mulago Hospital, re-
equip the Blood Transfusion Center, rehabilitate eight district hospitals and thirty rural
health centers and construct a hospital in Rakai district; (b) promote health status by
creating awareness through health education programs, develop a community-based
distribution system for drugs and supplies and develop a program for counseling and
patient management for people infected with AIDS; (c) strengthen the Health Planning
Unit, the management capability in the Ministry of Health (MOH), hospitals and rural
health facilities, and develop alternative ways of ensuring adequate financing of the
health sector.
3.    The Development Credit Agreement was amended on October 23, 1994, to
reallocate funds among project components and to provide funds for piloting sector
reforms. The amendment allowed for construction of a new health center, rehabilitation
of five health centers and an office for the District Medical Officer instead of the proposed
construction of a 1 00-bed hospital in Rakai district. The amendment was appropriate and
in line with evolving needs.
4.    The project objectives were clearly defined and responsive to the country's needs
for immediately re-establishing health services and beginning the process of developing a
sustainable health system. The project comprised a wide range of activities that posed
varying challenges during implementation. The project was demanding for a Government
that was constituted after a long troubled period. Reliable data for project preparation
was not available as information systems had broken down. The following risks were
identified: weak institutional capacity, demoralized and underpaid Government staff, and
the uncertainty of introducing user fees and other alternative health care financing options.
During implementation, these issues presented significant problems but most were
adequately addressed. Changes made to the project objectives were appropriate as it was
necessary to review priorities based on the implementation experience especially with
respect to cost overruns on the physical works; to select more cost-effective alternatives as
was the case in reducing the size of new health facility for Rakai district, and to look
ahead by beginning to test some of the envisaged reforms in the sector.
Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    Overall, the project was satisfactory. Two components of the project in particular,
rehabilitation of facilities and strengthening of delivery of health services achieved most
of their objectives. The third component on health education and community activities
achieved some of its objectives but was less successful than the other two components.
Details of achievements of each project component are presented below:



PARTII: Implementation Assessement                               Page 3 of 13
6.    Rehabilitation, Construction and Equipment of Health Facilities: Physical
Rehabilitation and Equipping of Health Facilities accounted for the major part of the
project. The objectives of this component were substantially achieved. The civil works
program as originally proposed during project appraisal was implemented with some
changes. Rehabilitation included key areas of Mulago hospital (elevators, kitchen,
laundry, Central Sterile Supplies Department, workshops and living quarters), eight
district hospitals, forty health centers and critical extensions to the Joint Clinical Research
Center4. The most significant change in the civil works was the rehabilitation of five
health centers and the construction of a District Medical Office in Rakai in place of the
proposed 1 00-bed district hospital. A number of planned rehabilitation works were taken
over by other financing agencies. The African Development Bank undertook some of the
works originally included in the project at the Mulago hospital. Three health centers were
rehabilitated by AMREF, World Vision and the German Volunteer Service. On the
whole, the quality of civil works was satisfactory. Most of the original rehabilitation was
completed by the end of 1992. There was an average of seven months delay in execution
of civil works contracts. Other works resulting from restructuring of the project: Rakai
Health facilities (new health center and rehabilitation of five health centers); the Joint
Clinical Research Center outpatient's department; and smaller works at Mulago were
completed by the project closing date. Site inspections indicated that satisfactory
construction techniques and standards were used. Attention was paid to the need for cost-
effectiveness in the selection of areas to be rehabilitated within each facility. Designs
were reviewed to ensure that only the most essential work was carried out and excess
capacity was not created. There is a marked improvement in the condition of the facilities
that were rehabilitated. Utilization rates for most of them has increased though it is not
uniform. In most cases, and especially for highly populated areas, facilities have high
occupation rates. In a few cases, facilities are underutilized and this is partly due to low
population density and incomplete equipping and low budgets for operation (see
Appendix A). Health centers and parts of Mulago hospital (except for the Rakai health
center) visited by the mission had full occupancy rates. The Mulago student hostel
occupancy rate has increased from 35% in 1988 to 100% as a result of the rehabilitation.
7.    The Austrian Government provided equipment to project facilities through a grant
of US$ 10 million. The rest of the equipment was provided under the IDA credit. The
rehabilitation and equipment restored a significant level of capacity that had fallen out of
use over a long period at the selected facilities. The credit also successfully provided drugs
and supplies and supported training of hospital maintenance workers. While this project
was not specifically designed as a poverty reduction intervention, the rehabilitation of
hospitals and health centers in rural areas has significantly increased access of the poor to
quality health services. In Kampala, where the only alternative hospitals are managed by
NGOs charging full costs, the refurbishment of Mulago has provided access to good
quality services to the urban poor as has the rehabilitation of Naguru, Kiswa and Kisenyi
health centers. The financial objectives have not been fully achieved as resources for
See Appendix D.



PART I: Implementation Assessement                             Page 4 of 13
maintenance have not been fully provided. The satisfactory maintenance of buildings is a
matter of concern. Except for some minor maintenance being undertaken by the
equipment workshop at Mulago, visits to sites revealed that no remedial maintenance was
being carried out on the newly completed or rehabilitated buildings. This is mainly
because increases in public funding to health have not been as high as expected5. Most of
the health facilities are raising up to 10% of their non-wage recurrent expenses through
user fees. An effort has been made to set aside 20% of fees collected for maintenance of
facilities. However, the cost sharing scheme has not been implemented as well as was
expected due, largely, to political constraints and, in any case, amounts collected through
user fees are not substantial relative to needs.
8.    Health Education and Community Activities: A number of important activities
under this component of the project were carried out. Support in the form of subsidized
newsprint was given to two newspapers to increase circulation: the "New Vision" an
English daily newspaper which has the widest circulation in the country, carries health
messages regularly, while "Munno" a local language newspaper carried messages before it
closed down due to financial problems. Vehicles, equipment and training were provided
to strengthen health education activities. Support to development of radio programs was
provided through the establishment of a liaison office in the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting. Health messages for AIDS prevention were developed. However, a number
of innovative ideas (comic books, school exercise books, public transport stickers and
posters and lottery tickets) for carrying health messages were not implemented because of
an inability to resolve procurement and administrative problems among the different
government agencies involved. They were later considered low priority items and
dropped from the project. Some of these activities were later picked up by other donors
and NGOs. Equipment to boost transmission by public radio stations was not purchased
due to failure to agree on specifications and complete the procurement. The community-
based drugs distribution program that included renovation of the Central Medical Stores
(CMS) was not carried out. However, DANIDA later rehabilitated the CMS as part of its
assistance to the essential drugs program. A positive outcome of this component is the
impetus it provided for support to health education activities by other agencies. More
broadly it is extremely difficult to assess the impact of this component since a number of
the original activities were not carried out. A Knowledge, Attitude and Practices (KAP)
study carried out in three pilot districts in 1991/92 but was not repeated as recommended
in the mid-term review. This is unfortunate as it would have assisted in assessing the
project impact. Institutional capacity building was not very successful as collaboration
among implementing departments was not effective. Physical objectives were only
partially achieved, as important equipment to boost public radio transmission was not
purchased. Support to the private sector was partially successful with respect to the
newspapers but was less so for the other "innovative" ideas for carrying health messages
that were not implemented.
See Appendix F.



PART I: Implementation Assessement                             Page 5 of 13
9.    Strengthening the delivery of health care. The MOH Planning Unit was
strengthened through technical assistance and training. With support from the project, the
Planning Unit developed the "White Paper on Health Policy" in 1993 and the Three-Year
Health Plan (1993/94). Sectoral policies were substantially achieved with the
development of the health sector policy and the three year plan. Institutional capacity
building was achieved through support to the Planning Unit. The Planning Unit is
coordinating the MOH's implementation of the Government's decentralization policy.
The unit is providing technical support to the districts in building capacity for planning,
implementation, financial management, monitoring and evaluation of health services. The
districts are now in their second year of producing annual work plans as a basis for
resource allocation.
10.   Institutional capacity building for district and facility level management was
improved. District Health Management Teams have been constituted while management
committees have been established for hospitals and health centers. These committees,
which include representatives of health services, the local administration and community
leaders, are responsible for administration and financial management including resource
generation. The project has also supported the development of a Quality Assurance Unit.
This unit is still small but it is already conducting training and supervisory visits for
improving the technical quality of the decentralized health services. A start has been
made on development of a health information system but this is still a long way from
generating information for use by health care providers to improve health services.
Activities involving NGOs (except support to Safe Motherhood Initiatives, physical
rehabilitation and equipment) were not carried out as modalities for working with NGOs
had not been fully developed until late in the project implementation period.
11.   The financial objectives were partially achieved. Budget frames have been
introduced as part of the annual planning process, allowing the MOH to monitor trends in
health expenditure. The planning unit now produces reports of trends in health
expenditures that show the break-down between primary care and hospital care. Total
Government recurrent expenditure on health has risen from 19.5 billion shillings in 1992/3
to 44.7 billion shillings in 1995/6. Expenditure on primary health care has risen from 25%
to 32% while that spent on hospitals has declined from 70% to 58% during the same
period. However, the proportion spent on management has risen from 5% to 10% and
donor funding still accounts for the most significant share (72% in 1995/96) of primary
health care spending.
12.   Progress on developing alternative schemes for health care financing fell below
expectations. This was mainly due to the political difficulties in introducing user charges
in a situation in which the Government has traditionally guaranteed free medical treatment
financed through the central budget. The recent constitutional change decentralizing
management and financial responsibility to districts has led to some progress in
introduction of user charges. While still in its early stages, the ground work has been laid
and support is continuing through the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration
Project (DHSP). Many hospitals and health units are raising up to 10% of their non-staff



PART I: Implementation Assessement                             Page 6 of l3
budget through cost sharing and funds are retained at the local level. No other financing
mechanisms were considered under the First Health Project, but local health insurance
schemes will be piloted under the DHSP.
13.   Poverty reduction objectives were not explicitly identified in this project but
policy decisions have had to take them into account. The Government's caution in
introducing cost sharing is due to its concern regarding the impact of the policy on the
poor and their access to health services. The decision to decentralize public services
including those in the health sector and to increase community participation in the
management of service delivery are driven by the intention to improve service to the
public, the greatest proportion of whom are poor.
14.   The Government has articulated the policy of developing collaboration with the
private sector especially NGOs which provide a large share of health services. However,
development of collaboration mechanisms was achieved to a very limited extent under the
First Health Project. This is now being undertaken with the assistance of the DHSP
project.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   Factors not generally subject to government control: The Government faced
resource constraints during the reconstruction period following the civil strife.
Furthermore, coffee prices also dropped in 1987/88 and this resulted in lower government
revenues for the following three years. This partly accounts for the inadequate allocations
of counterpart funding to the project (this applied to other Government projects as well).
In addition, at the time of project appraisal, information on the status of the selected
facilities was inadequate and adjustments had to be made to the scope of works for a
number of the facilities as implementation proceeded. There were also delays in
completing a number of the construction activities resulting in extensions of contracts and
related costs partly due to shortage of materials and qualified contractors.
16.   Factors generally subject to government control. The project suffered major
setbacks due to shortage of counterpart funds. Even though the Government faced
constraints in revenue collection, the health sector share in the Government budget was
low. Counterpart funds amounted to only about 6% (US$ 3.5 million) of total project
costs instead of the planned 10% (US$ 6.5 million). In the early part of project
implementation, release of funds from the Treasury was often delayed and the amounts
were below budgeted levels. This led to significant shortfalls in those expenditure
categories that depended heavily on counterpart funds (civil works, in-country workshops
and seminars, incremental operating costs of the PIU and key departments of the MOH:
planning and health education). There were also bottlenecks arising out of complicated
inter-governmental clearance procedures and a weak PIU: the PIU was inadequately
staffed and the staff had very limited experience in implementing similar projects. After
the mid-term review in 1992, these problems were gradually overcome with the
strengthening of the PIU and improved communications between different government



PARTI: Implementation Assessement                             Page 7 of 13
agencies. A number of qualifications in the audits of the project remained unresolved for a
long time. Most of these were resolved except for the construction of Buhozi clinic which
was completed much later than envisaged. A report is still due from the Government on
the final outcome of its investigation of the rehabilitation of the clinic (refer to ICR
mission aide-memoire para 16, Appendix A).
17.   Factors subject to the control of the project implementation unit. Difficulties
experienced at the beginning of the project are largely because very little time was devoted
to preparing implementing agencies for the substantial task ahead with the initial project
in a sector. Furthermore, there was very little coordination among the agencies and the
PIU. These problems were subsequently addressed over time: more competent staff were
hired and trained. Technical assistance was also provided to the PIU. This resulted in
major improvements in implementation during the latter half of the project.
Project Sustainability.
18.   Mulago hospital is the main health services provider in Kampala and the
surrounding districts and was one of the beneficiaries of the First Health Project. Even
more critical, Mulago hospital accounts for a large share of the Ministry of Health
resources (16% of total health budget in 1995/96). Addressing sustainability of project
investments is closely linked to sustainability of Mulago hospital services - in its own
right as well as due to its relationship to other levels of service delivery. The workload at
Mulago increased over the last four years (from 66,101 admissions in 1992 to 72,105 in
1995). Though data was not readily available, according to the MOH, increases in
outpatient services have been higher than inpatient attendance. The rehabilitation program
has contributed to this increase. Mulago is still faced with serious shortages of drugs and
supplies and funds for maintenance activities (preventive in particular) are in:,ufficient. It
will become increasingly difficult for the central government to provide adequately for the
hospital while reallocating more funds from secondary and tertiary level facilities to
primary health care.
19.   Reacting to the issue, the Government commissioned a study which was funded
by ODA to make recommendations for addressing the future of Mulago hospital. The
study has made a number of recommendations for consideration by the Government
which include, the need to: clarify the roles of Mulago hospital, the Kampala City
Council (KCC) and NGO hospitals in services provision for Kampala city; s parate
management of training schools for nurses and paramedical staff from Mulago hospital
management; delineate -esponsibilities and financing of shared facilities between Mulago
hospital and the Makerere University, and grant autonomy including revenue generation to
Mulago hospital. The Government is seriously considering the recommendations from the
study and has proposed to grant autonomy to Mulago by the 1998/99 fiscal year. These
actions are expected to improve the efficiency of Mulago hospital and reduce its demands
on the national budget as well as shift some of the work to lower level hospitals and health
centers which are less expensive.



PARTI: Implementation Assessement                                Page8of/3
20.   Rehabilitated hospitals and health centers are handling more patients as compared
to similar facilities which have not undergone any rehabilitation. The improved physical
environment has contributed to staff recruitment and retention. Experience has shown
that the physical and functional rehabilitation of facilities has also enhanced the ability to
raise revenues through user fees due to restored confidence of users. This will increase the
financial sustainability of the hospitals and clinics in the long run. In the meantime, many
facilities are setting aside a portion of the cost sharing revenues (usually in the order of
20%) for maintenance. However, these funds are not adequate to meet the maintenance
needs of the facilities. Efforts are still needed to provide more funds for maintenance. As
mentioned earlier, the districts now have the mandate for resource mobilization and
allocation and are exercising it with varying degrees of success. The Government should
continue to assist them in strengthening this capacity. The support of the Quality
Assurance and Planning units is expected to contribute to a more efficient and effective
service delivery system. Funding for health facilities will still continue to be largely
public and as identified during the appraisal of the project, there is need to increase public
funding for the health sector. The Ministry of Health recurrent budget has increased from
Ug shs. 45 billion in 1992/93 to Ug shs. 85 billion in 1995/96, an increase in real terms of
44% over this period. The share of the health sector in Government spending is still low
(2% of GDP) compared to other countries in the region.
21.   The Government is pursuing the implementation of its sector policy objectives in
the two projects prepared as a follow-up to the First Health Project: the Sexually
Transmitted Infections (STI) Project and the District Health Services Pilot and
Demonstration Project (DHSP). Both projects are carrying forward reforms and activities
initiated under the First Health Project. A larger effort is being undertaken, through the
STI project, to control the spread of HIV infection while alleviating the suffering of those
already afflicted with AIDS. This project is supporting health education, drugs and
supplies for opportunistic infection and capacity building for implementation. The DHSP
support includes continued pilot testing of reforms; strengthening institutional capacity of
districts; further rehabilitation of district level health facilities; developing collaboration
with NGOs and the private sector; testing autonomy for Government units including
Mulago; new funding mechanisms; and, restructuring of the Ministry of Health. These
projects emerged directly from the First Health Project and take up the key issues facing
the health sector in Uganda. There are other donor-funded projects supplementing the
Government's efforts in the above areas.
Borrower Performance
22.   The Government was highly committed to implementation of the project but the
project suffered setbacks in the first two years of implementation. The staff in the PIU
were relatively inexperienced and had no prior knowledge of World Bank procedures. In
addition, since the capacity building and implementation of the project was largely
concentrated in the PIU, other key participants in the sector were not fully involved. This
created a problem for collaboration with other departments and accounted for the fact
that some departments (Health Education in particular) were not aware of their



PART I: Implementation Assessement                             Page 9 of 13
responsibility in the implementation process. As a result a number of activities were
either not carried out or financed by other donors. Covenant compliance was partially
satisfactory, the most significant weakness being consistent delays and qualifications in
audit reports. Counterpart funds were inadequate and often delayed. There were also
delays in procurement of goods and services and weak contract administration. After the
mid-term review in 1992, the MOH made an effort to address these problems. More
qualified and competent staff were hired for the PIU. Technical assistance was brought in
to strengthen the PIU and the MOH, and staff were trained in World Bank procurement,
financial and disbursement procedures. Efforts were also made to enhance coordination
among implementing departments in the MOH and other ministries. These actions greatly
contributed to speeding up implementation.
Bank Performance
23.   The Bank provided a fairly thorough analysis of the health sector given the limited
data available at the time of project appraisal. Three main risks were identified: (a) lack
of implementation capacity in MOH; (b) uncertainty over the feasibility of developing
alternate methods of financing; and (c) lack of motivation at all levels of the civil service
mainly due to low levels of remuneration. With the benefit of hindsight, the accuracy of
these risks can be confirmed. Costing and timing of such a large project was a challenge
given the inadequate data. One risk which was not taken into account was the ability of the
Government to raise adequate counterpart funds given the difficult economic conditions at
the time. The Bank did not also involve all key implementing agencies in project design.
This was particularly evident in the case of a number of agencies responsible for
implementation of the health education component. As a result of poor communication
and failure to resolve problems some activities in the component were canceled. The
project could have benefited from more World Bank staff supervision time. This would
have enabled corrective actions to be taken more regularly instead of awaiting the major
mid-course restructuring. This may have reduced the delays experienced especially with
respect to resolving impasses between Government agencies on the evaluation of bids for
radio transmitters and in reaching agreement between the Government and the Bank on
the size of facility to be constructed in Rakai. In addition, a practical implementation
manual would have been useful for implementing agencies. Apart from the cases cited
above, the Bank was responsive in addressing problems which arose in the course of
implementation and assisted the Government to restructure the project in line with
changing priorities.
Assessment of Outcome
24.   Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. The project greatly improved
facilities at Mulago and at the 8 district hospitals and 40 health centers and provided
equipment and a more conducive working and living atmosphere for staff. It is difficult to
measure the impact of the rehabilitation and equipping of the facilities on the quality of
service delivery. Visits to facilities and discussions with staff yielded different responses,
though overall the perception was that there was a major improvement from the conditions



PART I: Implementation Assessement                                   Page 10 of 13
prevailing at the time of project appraisal. Though the rehabilitation barely scratched the
surface of rehabilitation needs in Uganda (e.g. 8 district hospitals out of 71 district
hospitals - 11%), important inroads have been made in improving facilities especially of
areas most adversely affected by the civil strife. The greatest achievements of the project
have been in institutional capacity building for implementing health sector policy (both at
the central and district levels) and initiating the process of reform. Though some
activities were carried out for preventive health programs, this was the least successful
part of the project. It is difficult to draw a link between the general health status in a
country and a specific project such as the First Health Project. However, it is worth noting
that there have been improvements in some health indicators. According to the
Demographic and Health Survey, 1995, the infant mortality rate has fallen from 119 per
1000 births in 1988/89 to 97 per 1000 births in 1995 while the proportion of children
aged 12-23 months who are fully immunized has increased from 31% to 49% during the
same period.
Future Operations
25.   The Government health policy clearly stresses the importance of maintenance of
existing infrastructure. Guidelines have been provided to institutions requiring them to
provide funds for maintenance needs. The MOH will continue sensitizing managers of
health facilities on the importance of maintenance of buildings and equipment. Training
for maintenance will also continue to be provided. The Health Education Department will
work closely with other departments to ensure that health education messages are
consistent. This is particularly important as there are many different programs all
contributing to the education of the public on better health practices. As for institutional
strengthening, the Government is continuing with the process of decentralization of
services. Additional work is already underway on delegating more responsibility to
districts and individual facilities. The structure of the Ministry of Health is being
reviewed further in line with decentralization needs. The planning function is also being
strengthened especially in light of the need to enhance the capacity of the districts to take
on a more central role of service provision. The Government is committed to providing
additional budgetary resources to the health sector. At the same time initiatives are also
underway to develop alternative schemes for health care financing. Another key element
of improving delivery of health services is the realization that all care providers (public,
private and NGOs) have to be taken into account. The Government has already initiated
action to work out mechanisms for collaboration. Two IDA-funded projects are
supporting the actions presented above: the DHSP project is providing support for health
sector reforms and the STI project focuses on preventing the transmission of HIV and
supporting AIDS patients. Other donors active in the sector are also supporting the
Ministry of Health's reform efforts.
6   Different estimates of infant mortality have been made based on the 1988/89 Demographic and Health
Survey. The level of  19 is adjusted for sample coverage and reporting errors.



PARTI: Implementation Assessement                                  Page 11 of 13
26.   It is a challenge for the Government to maintain rehabilitated facilities and
provide competent and motivated health care staff, drugs and supplies to enable them
function effectively. At the same time, more public health facilities require rehabilitation.
Resources for meeting all these needs are limited. The Government should prepare a
sector-wide investment strategy for the future. The strategy should aim for improvement
of health services delivery including: improving competence of staff, provisions of
adequate funds for operations, maintenance of existing infrastructure, rehabilitation of
selected high priority facilities. The strategy should pay particular attention to ways of
improving the quality of services. This will call for mobilization of additional resources
from both Government budgets and from users of health services through the development
of appropriate health financing mechanisms. However, even more important is the need
for creating an environment where different players (public sector, private sector, NGOs
and donors) can contribute to the improvement of health services in the country.
Key Lessons Learned
27.   A number of lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementing the First
Health Project.
a.   Sectoral Issues.
i.   Government commitment to the project is central to implementation
success. The Uganda government was committed to addressing the
problems in the health sector and took the necessary policy decisions
which included the articulation of the health sector policy in the "White
Paper" and the development of a three year plan.
ii.  Incremental support provided by individual projects must be fully
embedded within an overall sector strategy. The First Health Project
was an emergency response to re-establishing health services but more
importantly it also provided assistance to the Government's
development of a sector strategy.
iii. The success of new health services funding mechanisms requires the
involvement of all stakeholders: policy makers, care providers and
consumers of health services. It is also critical to address the efficient
use of resources in addition to the provision of additional resources.
iv. Development of alternative financing schemes involves other reforms
in the health sector. Technical assistance will be required for such new
areas.
v.   More attention needs to be given to the development of a Health
Information System which can be easily managed by health care givers
especially at district and health facility level. This will be facilitated by



PARTI: Implementation Assessement                                Page 12 of 13
the involvement of health care givers in the design of the system
especially if they see the system as a tool they need for their work.
vi.  Health education will continue to be important for preventive and
promotion of good health practices. However, more work needs to be
done on the best way of improving health education with an emphasis
on the roles of different players.
vii. With the increasing needs in the sector, it is timely to shift from
narrowly defined projects to a sector-wide program approach taking
into account the necessary reforms such as health care financing and the
involvement of all players (public, private and NGOs).
b.  Implementation Issues
viii. Project design should allow for a substantial degree of flexibility. The
health sector is subject not only to changes in the disease burden (for
example the AIDS epidemic) but also in its need to respond to major
policy decisions such as decentralization. The tasks facing it cannot
always be predicted years ahead and major projects must be responsive
to changing priorities
ix. There should be greater involvement of all stakeholders in the design of
the projects. This greatly facilitates implementation.
x. Agencies expected to be responsible for implementing specific activities
in project design and supervision should be fully involved in project
design and consulted regularly during implementation. This helps to
build ownership. Responsibilities for implementation should be clearly
explained during project design and attention should be paid to this
during implementation. A detailed practical implementation manual
should be prepared as part of project appraisal as a reference document
for implementation.
xi. Efforts should be made during implementation to ensure availability of
counterpart funds and recurrent support to proposed investment. It may
even be necessary to build in conditionality for counterpart contributions.



PARTI.: Implementation Assessement                                 Page 13 of 13
xii. Capacity building is important for institutional strengthening; capacity
constraints should be identified for implementation as well as for
technical areas. Particular attention should be paid to clarifying IDA and
Government rules for procurement and disbursement. Lack of adequate
knowledge in these areas slows down implementation considerably.
Clear guidelines on project implementation procedures (including
procurement and disbursement) are crucial. Procurement plans and bid
documents should be finalized during project appraisal.



14
PART II
Table la
Uganda
First Health Project
Table la: Summary of Assessments:
Rehabilitation and Construction of Health Facilities Component
Substantial        Partial         Negrgible      Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                                                             XX
sector policies                        XX
financial objectives                     _              XX
institutional development                _      XX
physical objectives                    XX
poverty reduction                                       XX
gender issues                                           XX
other social objectives                                                                    XX
environmental objectives                                                                   XX
public sector management               XX
private sector development                              XX      X X    _   _ _
Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
|B. Project sustainability                  XX
Highly                                             Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient      unsatisfactory
IC. Bank performance                  _                                  ______= ___=___
identification                                          XX
preparation assistance                                  XX
appraisal                                               XX
supervision                                             xx
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                             XX         _
implementation                   __ X_XX_=_______  _ ___
covenant compliance                                     XX
operation                                               XX
E. Assessment of outcome                                     XX



15                                            PAR r II
Table lb
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 1 b: Summary of Assessments:
Health Education and Community Activities Component
Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                                                           XX
sector policies                                        XX                                    _  -
financial objectives               XX __
institutional development                                               XX
physical objectives                                    XX
poverty reduction                                                                        xx
gender issues                                                                            XX
other social objectives                                                                  XX
environmental objectives                                                                 XX
public sector management                                                XX             e
private sector development                             XX
Likely          Unlikely        Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                                                    XX
Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient          Highly
satisfactory                                      unsatisfactory
C. Bank performance
identification                                         XX
preparation assistance                                 XX
appraisal                                                               XX
supervision                                                             XX
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                            XX
implementation                                                          XX
covenant compliance                                    xx
operation                                                               XX
E. Assessment of outcome                                                     XX



PART II
16                                          Table Ic
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 1 c: Summary of Assessments:
Strengthening the Delivery of Health Care Component
Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not applicable
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                          XX         _
sector policies                                         XX
financial objectives                                    XX
institutional development              XX                                  .
physical objectives                                                                        XX
poverty reduction                                       XX
gender issues                                                            XX
other social objectives                                 XX
environmental objectives                                                                   XX
public sector management               XX
private sector development                                               XX
Likely         1Unlikely        Uncertain
B. Project sustainability                  XX
Ilaigaty      Satisf actory      Deficient         Highly
satisfactory    .       . .    .    .       .     unsatisfactory
C. Bank performance
identification                                          XX
preparation assistance                                  XX
appraisal                                               XX
supervision                                              XX
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                             XX
implementation                                          XX
,covenant compliance                                    XX
operation                                               XX         _
E. Assessment of outcome                                     XX



17                                     PART 11
Table 2
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit                               Purpose                     Year of      Status
_  Appro_al
Parallel Operations
1. Program for Alleviation of Poverty   The project objectives were to address urgent  1990  Closed,
and Social Costs of Adjustment Project. social needs of Uganda's most vulnerable          September
(Cr. 2008-UG)                      groups through collaboration of communities,           1995
NGOs and the Government and strengthening
of Government capacity to identify and
implement interventions.
Following Operations
1. Sexually Transmitted Infections  The project is assisting: the prevention of  1994     Ongoing,
Project. (Cr. 2603-UG)             sexual transmission of HIV; the mitigation of          closing
personal impact of AIDS; and, institutional            December
development for managing HIV prevention and            31, 2000.
AIDS care.
2. District Health Services Pilot and    The project is assisting: pilot testing delivery of  1995  Ongoing,
Demonstration Project. (Cr. 2679-UG)  a package of essential services at the district;    closing
strengthening management and planning                  December
capacity of districts for service delivery; and,       31, 2002.
restructuring and capacity building of the
Ministry of Health.
Planned Operations
The project will assist the development of  Planned, 2000
3. Health Sector Reform Project    Public Health Programs, Health Care
Financing and alternative health care delivery
options.



18                                     PART II
Table 3
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project cvcle         Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification                                          December, 1987
Preparation/Appraisal          January - February, 1988. January - February, 1988
egotiations                   May, 1988               May 12-18, 1988
Board Presentation             July, 1988               June 23, 1988
Signing                        July, 1988               July 11, 1988
Effectiveness                  September, 1988          January 11, 1989
Mid-Term Review                December 31, 1990        August 3-16, 1992
Project Completion             June 30, 1995            March 31, 1996
Loan Closing                   March 31, 1996           March 31, 1996



19                                         PART II
Table 4
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
Actual cutminul.
SAR Estimates                 Actual           as % of credit
Yr/Quarta r      Quarterly  Cummul.      Quarterly    Cummnul.         Credit
n:SS n illionx)    (USS nhilli.liq.)
FY89   Ql           1.20       0.00          0.00           0.00
Q2          2.20       3.40          3.39           3.39            0.08
Q3          3.00       6.40          0.00           3.39            0.08
Q4          4.20      10.60          0.00           3.39            0.08
FY90   Ql           3.00      13.60          0.00           3.39           0.08
Q2          2.60      16.20          0.03           3.42            0.08
Q3          2.90      19.10          1.53           4.95            0.12
Q4          3.00      22.10          1.73           6.68            0.17
FY91   Ql           2.60      24.70          1.41           8.09           0.20
Q2          2.60      27.30          0.27           8.36            0.21
Q3           1.60     28.90          1.84          10.20            0.25
Q4           1.60     30.50          1.20          11.40            0.28
FY92   Ql           2.60      33.10          0.07          11.47           0.28
Q2          2.20      35.30          3.86          15.33            0.38
Q3          0.80      36.10          3.07          18.40            0.45
Q4           1.30     37.40          2.88          21.28            0.53
FY93   Ql           0.40      37.80          3.85          25.13           0.62
Q2          0.40      38.20          0.72          25.84            0.64
Q3          0.50      38.70          1.97          27.81            0.69
Q4          0.40      39.10          0.00          27.81            0.69
FY94   Ql           0.30      39.40          0.53          28.34           0.70
Q2          0.30      39.70          1.83          30.18            0.75
Q3          0.30      40.00          0.93          31.11            0.77
Q4          0.50      40.50          0.85          31.96            0.79
FY95   Ql           0.50      41.00          0.76          32.72           0.81
Q2          0.50      41.50          2.48          35.20            0.87
Q3          0.50      42.00          1.19          36.39            0.90
Q4          0.50      42.50          0.97          37.36            0.92
FY96   Q1                                    0.00          37.36           0.92
Q2                                   1.34          38.69            0.96
Q3                                   0.93          39.62            0.98
Q4                                   0.84          40.47



Quarterly Credit Disbursements, Estimated vs. Actual
4.50
:.        iE; . E wE i   i i. ~~~~~~. . . .. .. ^...:. :   ::::<  :) i:          :       
4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .. ..          . .. .... . .: .. . . .. :-  .. -gz. ... .. . .:; .      ;            . . ....:  . .. ..                                       . . .. .. ... .
4.00r...........
3.50                                                                                    .                                         . ...
..-.... ....  . .  .                                                                                  .            .. ...                                                                                                                                                    0   SAR   Estimates
3.00                                                                                                                                                                                                  . . .  ......... . .._ . ................                                                                                   Actual
..   ..     . .   .. . . ..:                  .   . . .
en              .          ~          ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ .   ... ... ..  .. . .. :      A     :      .  :                          :i  
,o      2.50                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       . ..    . -  . .... ........  ..... . .
2.200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ____L__1__1      t .E..L      LH;: - 
2   .0                                                                                                          -    -   ---    -- - _._                                                                                .     .. .. .   ...     ...........................  ...     ...   ..   ..     ....  ..   ...   ..   ..   ...    .. .. .   ..................  _,...._...t    0 0 |     *
1.50                                                                                                                                                                          . _  ..     .         _  . . 
1.00                         -
CL
0.50
0.00
m                          C)                                                                        C"I                ~                ~~~~~~~~~~ CO)                                                             LO1)(
CD                                   m                                                                        0                                    0)                                   a)                                     )0
LL                        ~~                 ~                ~~~Li.  IL            L                                                     LiL                                  IL                                   IL                                  IL
Quarterly



Uganda
First Health Project
Table 5: Key indicators of Project Implementation1
Item                                             Unit    FEstiniated    Actual    Comment
A. Rehabilitation and Construction of Health
Facilities
1. Mulago Hospital Rehabilitation                                           90%          The following selected areas were completed: elevators, officers houses,
nurses hostels, doctors mess, kitchens, laundry, maintenance workshop,
central sterile supplies department. Equipment, drugs and supplies were
also provided. Due to cost overruns the scope of work was reduced: water
and sewerage works, a number of staff houses, hospital roads, fencing and
paving.
2. Equipment of Blood Transfusion Center         %                          100%         All expected equipment was provided by end of 1990. Rehabilitation of
the center was supported by the European Development Fund.
3. Rehabilitation of District Hospitals          number   8                 8            All works were carried out though there were delays in expected
completion times.
4. Rehabilitation of Health Centers              number   30                40           More health centers were rehabilitated as a result of savings due to reduced
________                  I__________  scope of work on the proposed Rakai hospital.
5. Construction of 100 bed hospital in Rakai District  number    I          I            Reduced to a 32-bed health center.
6. Construction of Maintenance Workshops         number   2                 2            One workshop for Mulago hospital and one for district hospitals.
B. Health Education
(9) Mass Media
1. Provision of subsidized newsprint to New Vision    tons  400             400          Completed.
newspaper
2. Equipment of national radio service           n.a                                     Some equipment was provided but the main equipment consisting of
transmitters was not provided due to inability to carry out the procurement.
3. Development of training materials             n.a.                                    Completed.
4. Training                                                                              Carried out for joumalists and health educators.
5. Construction of lean-to-shelters              number   30                ----         Intended to be used as billboards for health messages at rehabilitated health
centers. Considered of low priority and was later canceled.
I No performance indicators were provided in the Staff Appraisal Report or the President's report. These indicators have been
developed from the staff appraisal report.                                                                                                                         iV



Table 5: Key indicators of Project Implementation (continued)
Item                                            Unit       Estimated  [ Actual    Comment
(it) Community Based Distribution Programfor
drugs and information
1. Renovate central medical stores in Entebbe   n.a.       -                           Not lone. Activity later undertaken by DANIDA as part of the essential
l________ _____ drugs program.
2. Construct and equip regional medical stores  number   4               1
3. Establish distribution system for community  n.a.       - 
distribution of drugs and health information                             l
(iii) Counseling and Patient Managenentfor
people with AIDS
Workshops                                       n.a                                    Completed.
Training Materials                              n.a.                                   Completed.
Training for care givers                        n.a.                                   Completed.
C. Strengthening Health Care Delivery
1. Technical Assistance                         n.a                                    Both short-term and long-term technical assistance was provided for
project management, Ministry of Health Management, development of 10
year plan and health care financing.
2. Training                                     n.a.                                   Training including study tours provided for journalists (health education),
planning and management staff.
3. Studies                                      n.a.                                   A number of studies carried out (refer to table 10 - Status of legal
covenants).
4. Workshops                                    n.a                                    National and district level workshops carried out for: preparation of the
health plan, health care financing, project management, health educators,
village level health workers etc.
5. Establishing drug revolving funds for Mulago,  n.a.                                 Not established as policy on cost sharing was not fully implemented.
district hospitals and communities
6. Establishment of Management Committees for   n.a.                                   Completed.
hospitals and health centers.
0i



Uganda
First Health Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation 1v
Project Impac to be maintained         Follow-up actions being    Issues Ouitstanding            |lanned Actions
taken__                                                        _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _  _ _
1. Maintenance of rehabilitated facilities and  Training continues to be  Inadequate provision in budgets  Increase budget allocations for
equipment.                             provided for staff in         for maintenance funds for both    maintenance. Sensitization of
maintenance of equipment.    equipment and buildings. In the  managers of hospitals and health
case of maintenance of buildings  centers on the need to develop
no systematic procedures are in   maintenance systems.
place for maintenance.
2. Dissemination of health education   The New Vision newspaper      Refining messages and ensuring   The Health Education
messages.                              continues to carry regular health  consistency of health education   department will play a more
education messages. Other    messages developed by different  central role in quality control
media TV and Radio are also  agencies.                     and supervision. The STI and
actively disseminating messages.                           DHSP projects are supporting
health education.
3. Strengthen management capability of  The Government policy of     Next steps in devolving powers   Another review of the Ministry
MOH, Hospitals and rural health facilities.   decentralization has enhanced    to districts and individual  of Health structure will be
the role of management by     facilities especially hospitals.  undertaken - relinquishing more
devolving more powers to     Training to enhance skills of  authority from the central level
districts. The MOH was       managers will be necessary.   which will remain in a
restructured under the Civil                               supervisory and policy setting
Service Reform.                                            role while districts and
individual health facilities take
on direct management
responsibility.
> :



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (continued).
Project Impact to be maintained        Follow-up actions being    Issues Outstanding               Planned Actions
4. Increase public resources to the health    The Government is increasing    (i) Further increase in public  The Government will continue
sector and develop alternative schemes for   budget allocations to the  allocations to the Ministry of    to develop and pilot schemes for
financing health care.                 Ministry of Health. User charges  Health. (ii) Continued    health care financing under the
are being implemented at health  development of user charges  DHSP project.
facility level through the   and other alternative financing
constitutional mandate of local   schemes. (iii) Shifting more
authorities to raise revenues. A    resources to primary health.
few community financing
schemes are being piloted.
5. Continue reforms in the health sector.    Two credits were prepared as a   Implementation of reforms in the  The Government intends to
follow-up to the First Health  health sector including those  continue implementing reforms
Project. Both projects support    mentioned above.         using support from STI and
ongoing reforms. The STI                                   DHSP projects. The
project focuses on reducing the                            Government is also preparing its
spread of HIV infection and                                health sector strategy for the
supporting care to AIDS patients                           next five years. The strategy
while the DHSP project is                                  will be the basis for developing a
supporting piloting of policy                              sector-wide investment program.
reforms for implementation of
essential health services.
1/ Indicators were not provided in the SAR or in the President's reports. The above indicators have been developed from the SAR.
Abbreviations:  STI    Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (Cr. 2603-UG)
DHSP District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project (Cr. 2679-UG)
-q
kV



UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Table 7: STUDIES CONDUCTED
Study/Purpose of Study                             Consultants                Slat us                      i in pact of Study
1. Study on Human Resources for the Health Sector (1991)           External and Local      Completed              The study was used to identify training and
management requirements for Ministry of Health
To review available data and assess the manpower working in the public                                            staff.
health system; suggest measures for establishing technically and
administratively feasible norms for managing health units including
hospitals; and, identify opportunities and constraints to health personnel
development and retention.
2. Study on prevalence of AIDS                                     Extemal                 Completed               The information was used in the preparation and
appraisal of the Sexually Transmitted Infections
To review the impact of AIDS in Uganda and suggest components for                                                  Project (Cr. 2603-UG).
inclusion in a new project.
3. Knowledge. Attitude. Practices Study                            Local                   Completed               The study was completed in 1992 after a long
delay. It provided useful information on public
To determine the impact of health education programs.                                                              awareness and practices in regard to their health.
The mid-term review recommended that another
KAP study be done before the end of the project
to assess the impact of health education programs
but this was not carried out.
4. Study on Decentralization of Health Services in Uganda. July, 1993.  External and Local  Completed              This report was used in the formulation of health
policy reforms; the establishment of the policy
To review the roles of the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Local                                                for district level organizations; preparing
Government in a decentralized system of service delivery; to identify the                                          guidelines for management committees for
options and the process for the decentralization of health services; to                                            hospitals/health units; and for integrating vertical
recommend an action plan for the management of district services; and to                                           programs at the district level.
advise on the roles of the committees functioning at different levels of the
system during decentralization.
-4-



Table 7: STUDIES CONDUCTED (continued)
Study/Purpore of Siudy                              Contulrunii                Ditatilq                       hlup:arl or Study
5. Study to assess the economic benefit and feasibility of moving the  Local                  Completed               The study recommended the relocation of the
Ministry of Health headquarters from Entebbe to Kam=ala 1994.                                                         Ministry of Health headquarters to Kampala. The
report was used in the preparation of the District
Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
which is supporting the transfer of the
__________________ _________________ ________   ________ ______  __________      ____    hheadquarters
6. Study on Manpower Development and Training requirements. 1991,    Extemal and Local        Completed               The reports are being used for capacity building
1993.                                                                                                                 being undertaken by the Ministry of Health.
To develop a system for upgrading the skills of staff through training.
7. Improving Management Systems in the Ministry of Local Government.    External              Completed               The report was used in the re-organization of
1994.                                                                                                                 health service delivery for services falling under
local authorities.
To recommend an organizational structure and a computerization process
for the management information system in the Ministry of Local
Government under the decentralized framework for delivery of services.
8. Development of the Sexually Transmitted Infections Project. 1994  External and Local       Completed               The project report was used in the appraisal of the
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project.
To prepare a project addressing the AIDS pandemic and related sexually
transmitted diseases.
q e
0r 



Table 7: STUDIES CONDUCTED (continued)
.S.:..  5.:.:.:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ....
...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.* . . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~   ~  ~   .....
....* ... . .*..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
11. Studies on Ouality Assurance development in Uganda (1 994)                   External and Local          Continuing                   The small unit which was the nucleus for these
studies is now being developed into a quality
To make recommendations for establishing a Quality Assurance process in                                                                   assurance unit of the Ministry of Health. It is the
delivery of health services.                                                                                                              focal point for training and supervision of staff in
improving the quality of health services
especially under the decentralized system.
| 12. Beneficiary Assessment Study (I 994))                                        External and Local           Completed                   The report was used in the preparation of the
District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration
To assess the impact of programs and services on beneficiaries.                                                                           Project.
eD -3
_



Uganda
First Health Project
Table 8. Project Costs - Staff Appraisal Report Estimates and Actual Expenditures
(US $ Millions)
SAR Eistimates                             Acttal
Ixppeniliture category       (ov't Austria 1/ lltA/SlDA    Tlaal Gov't Austria   llDA    IDl)A  'rotol
1. Civil Works               2.40                22.50    24.90   0.90     -       0.80  23.10   24.80
2. Vehicles, furniture,
materials, supplies and
equipment                     1.50     10.00     15.70    27.20           10.30    0.13   8.99   19.42
3. Technical Assistance and
Consultancy                                       3.50     3.50                    0.44   3.43    3.87
4. Local and External Traini  0.60                0.90     1.50                    2.99   1.50    4.49                                    oo
5. Monitoring, Research and
Incremental Recurrent
Expenditures                  2.00      0.00      6.40     8.40   2.60    0.10     2.14   2.92    7.76
6. Piloting Health Reforns 2/                                                             0.54    0.54
Total project costs    l      6.50     10.00     49.00    65.50   3.50   10.40     6.50  40.48   60.88
11 Cofinancing from the Austrian Government was confirmed after appraisal.
2/ The Development Credit Agreement was amended in July, 1995 to allow piloting of health sector
reforms in preparation for the next IDA financed health projects.
5 x



29
PART II
Table 9
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 9: Project Financing
Appraisal       Actual
Source                 F-Istimates   Expenditures
_ __   ((tSS M)   W((SS ND
IBRD/IDA                     42.50          40.48
SIDA                          6.50           6.50
Austria                      10.00          10.40
Domestic Contribution         6.50           3.50
TOTAL                        65.50          60.88



Uganda
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
DCA      : :::    :;     e  rptl on::o:en          ::: :::   C :an  :1.rsn    ::rgina . Ate:al . F:                               :::         : Comtns 
:RC(erenc..;;                               ,;.:        .              typle          staes.                          ::.::.: :Com..n.ent t    *:::
cc.>::.:...: C V.                                                           ...            -          .~~~~~~~~~~~...........
Article III    The Borrower shall, carry out the project through MOH      1 2            CP          N/A,                The Govemment was fully committed to implementation of the project but
para. 3.01(a)   with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with                                                 many problems were experienced, notable among which were the
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public                                             persistent delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding exper' nced. The
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the                                              situation improved in the latter half of the project. The Govemment made
funds, facilities, services and other resources require for the                                           efforts to provide a conducive environment for implementation and
project.                                                                                                  addressed problems as they arose.
Article HI    The Borrower shall with the assistance of a suitably         12            CD         12/31/88    3/1991   A 10-year plan was prepared with assistance of a consultant in 1991. The
para. 3.03 (a)  qualified expert, prepare a national health plan.                                                        current three-year plan (1993-1996) was developed from it in 1992.
._________  __ District plans for implementation are now prepared annually.
Article III    The Borrower shall submit a detailed action plan for the    12            CD         12/31/88     1991-   A draft paper on restructuring the Ministry of Health (MOH) was prepared
para. 3.03 (b)  implementation of refomis of the organization and                                                1993    in 1993 as part of the Civil Service Reform. Later more work on
management of the health system.                                                                          restructurind was carried out as part of the preparation for the District
Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project which is now under
implementation.
Article III    The Borrower shall submit a proposal satisfactory to IDA    12            CD         12/31/89     1993    This was addressed in the White Paper on Health Policy issued in 1993. It   w
para. 3.04 (a)  for the development and implementation of a referral                                                     was developed further by the Decentralization Task Force as part of the
system.                                                                                                   Govemment's preparation for decentralization.
Article III    (i) The Borrower shall submit to IDA a review of existing   12            CD         12/31/89     1991,   A manpower study was carried out in 1991. More work on staffing in the
para. 3.04 (b)  manpower in the health sector, including an optimal staffing                                     1993    health sector was done in the National Health Personnel Study in 1993.
and implementation plan for the sector.
Action was taken as part of the Civil Service Reform as well as through the
(ii) To the extent practicable, transfer excess staff to                                                  Govemment's decentralization policy implementation (1994-1995).
understaffed categories of the sector and provide training as
appropriate.
10-
Article 1II    The Bonrower shall submit evidence to IDA that the     co-financing       CP                              Cofinancing amounting to US$ 6.5 million was secured from SIDA and
para. 3.05     Borrower has secured the equivalent of not less than                                                      US$ 10 million from the Austrian Government,
$6,500,000 for financing the project.
0g



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants contl
*:CA                    Descrription of Covenant                   Covenant tyale        Present       Originil          .1ual                         ConinenitN
Reretenee                                   .                                               stiutus         dale          dim
Article IV
parn 4.01 (a)   (a) Maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts    1               CD       N/A.               N/A.      Accounts were maintained but audit reports tended to be
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting                                                              delayed and a number of qualifications remained unresolved
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in                                                            for a long time. Audits were carried out for FY 1989/90;
respect of the project, of the departments or agencies of the                                                         1991/92; 1992/93; 1993/94 and 1994/95. The report for
Borrower responsible for carrying out the project or any part                                                         1995/96 is due. It is noteworthy that actions to address the
thereof.                                                                                                              qualifications have been taken up more actively in the last two
years.
(b) The Borrower shall; (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
for the Special Account and the Trust Fund for each fiscal
year, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each year a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information conceming said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request                                                                                                                                                                         -
c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain
or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a)
of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has teceived the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made, all records (contract, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) as evidence of such expenditures; (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditute submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal controls involved
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
Cs



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants contJ
D)(A                   Descripliul. uf Coveniant                  Cuvenasil type    Present         Original       Actual                         Cu(imlniits
lteference                                                                                statuis        fute          date
Schedule 4    The Borrower shall coordinate the implementation of the        5               C       N/A.               N/A.    The Project Coordination Committee was established and met
para.l        Project through a Project Coordination Committee with the                                                         regularly until early 1991. Since then the Permanent Secretary
Permanent Secretary as Chairmnan, and comprising senior                                                           has supervised the project and met regularly with his
staff of MOH; representatives of the Ministries of Local                                                          counterparts for purposed of coordination.
Government, Justice, Finance, Planning and Economic
Development, and Housing and Urban Development.
A project coordinator was appointed in late 1988. In 1991 the
Schedule 4    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) shall carry out day-     5               C            N/A.          N/A.    Project Coordinator was changed with the concurrence of IDA.
para. 2       to-day implementation of the Project and monitoring the                                                            A further change was made in 1994, due to the unfortumate
activities of the health Education Unit, the organization,                                                        demise of the coordinator. The staffing of the PIU was
administration and management training programs and the                                                           reviewed in 1991 and in the course of implementation and
progress of civil works. PIU shall be headed by a Project                                                         changes made to improve the strength of the unit.
Coordinator whose qualifications are satisfactory to IDA.
Schedule 4    PIU shall prepare and submit to the Association, semiannual
para 3.       reports on the progress of implementation of Project           5               C            N/A.          N/A.    Progress reports and work plans were prepared and submitted to
activities with effect from December 31, 1988                                                                     IDA every year starting in 1989.
Schedule 4    MOH shall carry out a comprehensive review of progress                        CP         12/31/1990      8/1992    A Mid-term review of the project was carried out in August,
para. 4       made in the implementation of the Project and provide IDA                                                          1992. A review of the PIU was carried out in 1991 and a   D
with:                                                                                                             Financial Review of the project in 1992.
(a) details, on the financing of the health sector, including  11                                                 A financial review was carried out in early 1992. A proposal
recurrent costs, to ensure that adequate funds are made                                                           for cost-sharing was prepared by the MOH and submitted to the
available to sustain health services;                                                                             Government. The Govemment deferred its implementation as
the environment was not conducive for its implementation.
(b) financial plans, with details on altemative schemes for the  2                                                Cost sharing was then introduced on a limited scale but was
generation of resources, including cost recovery at the                                                           later enhanced when the constitution allowed revenue
facilities to be rehabilitated under the Project, to ensure that                                                  generation by local authorities following the decentralization
such schemes are properly established; and appropriately                                                          policy. Govemment has remained committed to diversifying
implemented.                                                                                                      financing of the sector. This has been clearly articulated in the
White Paper on Health Policy, 1993 and in the Letter of Sector
Policy drafted in June 1994 for the District Health Services Pilot
l________________                               _________  and Demonstration Project
Schedule 4    The Borrower shall finalize an action plan for completion of   5               C                          1988     The condition was satisfied in 1988. Documents for
para. 5       the full set of documentation, drawings, site plans,                                                               rehabilitation and civil works have subsequently been
specifications and bills of quantities for all rehabilitation                                                     revised/prepared as needed.
works.
C.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants cont./
DCA                    Desaription of CoveantC                         ntp               -a                            uA    1 -.CommDents
Referenc                                                . ... ......
Schedule 4    In order to improve the management and manpower ..........   ........ .....A Health Manpower Study was completed in 1991.
para. 6       standards of the facilities to be rehabilitated under the                                                          Retrenchment was carried out beginning in July. 1992.
Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) during rehabilitation carry our a manpower analysis and                   C
management study of each facility.                            5
(b) submit staffing plans                                     5
CD         6/30/1989                 Staffing for rehabilitated facilities was carried out by the
(i) for each facility to be rehabilitated                                                                         technical assistance provided by the Austrian Government.
CD         12/31/1989
(ii) for the new electrical and mechanical workshop                                                               Carried by Austrian consultants.
O establish staffing standards, eliminate redundant positions  12            CD                                   The organization and staff rationalization has since been
and workers and finalize redeployment of staff by date of                                                         reviewed through the restructuring of the MOH in line with
completion of physical works.                                                                                     dentralization and the civil service reformn.
Schedule 4    The Borrower shall appoint a Health Education Coordination     5               C         12/31/1988      12/1988   The Committee was established in 1988 and met regularly
para. 7       Committee, to bc chaired by MOH's Director of Medical                                                              under the chairmanship of the PS/DMS.
Services, and comprising representatives of other divisions of
MOH, representatives of the Ministries of education,
Information and Broadcasting and the New Vision and
Munno newspapers.
Schedule 4    The Borrower shall carry out studies (one each year) and                                   9/30/89
para.8        submit a copy of cach study to IDA within six months of
completion:
Studies:
1991    (i) Two Health Manpower Studies were carried out in 1991 and
(i) to identify the corrcct staffing of MOH facilities at all  12            CD                          1993     1993.
levels and to identify training and retraining needs;                                                             (ii) A Management Information Study was carried out in 1993
(ii) to develop health information and management systems                                                         for the MOH and the Ministry of Local Govemment.
(iii) on the efficiency and effectiveness of the health system                                                    (iii) The efficiency and effectiveness of the health system was
(iv) on the establishment of community-based distribution                                                         reviewed as part of the study on decentralization of health
systems for drugs and supplies, including condoms.                                                                services.
(iv) The drugs supply system was reviewed with DANIDA    .d
assistance. A new Drugs Policy was adopted in 1994.
co



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants cont./
DCA                     Descripfionjof Covenant. :. ;..:...   Covenant                                                                                                         Prt ntt'Origina   cAct.a. : :um n .t:
Reference                                        .t ......:....e.                                                                             .   .
Reference~. . .:..  .;.   : :;. : .   ..     ....  ........     ..... .   ........     . ..     ..... esL.;
Scebdule 4     (a) Establish management committees for each hospital and  12            C       12/31/1989    N/A.    This conditions was met gradually. Management commnittees were
para. 9        health center, with functions including overseeing of each                                              introduced following a voluntary approach based on MOH guidelines.
facility, generating additional funding through introduction                                            Individual facilities are charging increasingly for health services. The
of alternative financing schemes, including cost sharing upon                                           constitution allows local authorities to raise revenues for their services.
completion of rehabilitation works.                                                                     Additional work on health financing is being undertaken by the Health
(b) Membership of management committee shall be chaired                                                 Planning Unit of the MOH.
by the local resistance committee chairman and include
representatives of Ministry of Local Government, the
administration of the facility and prominent community
leaders
Schedule 4     To encourage community participation in financing of local  2, 11       CP       6/30/1989              Community participation was achieved through the Government's
para. 10       health facilities, the Borrower shall ensure that funds                                                 decentralization policy. District Health Management Teams were established
generated through commnunity and health-related financing                                               under the chairmanship of the RC5. Cost sharing continued to be
activities, including cost-recovery on drugs are re-channeled                                          implemented informally. The constitution has now given the mandate to
to the respective facility.                                                                             districts to raise revenues and cost sharing is being implemented in most
health facilities.  I
Schedule 4     The Borrower shall provide funds to:                       l            NC          NA          NA      Drug revolving funds were not given to Mulago and to district hospitals due
para. 11       (a) Mulago hospital to launch revolving drug funds                                                      to revenue shortfalls and also because of the absence of a policy on cost-
(b) district hospitals and health centers to launch revolving                                           sharing. Funds are largely provided through the govermnent budget Now
funds and finance activities required to generate funds                                                 with cost-sharing picking up, some health unit have started to provide drug
revolving funds.
Schedule 4     The borrower shall submit proposals for income-generating  2,3          NC                              Viable activities were not identified.
par. 12        activities based on community participation, which shall
include accounting mechanisms.
Schedule 4     The Borrower shall ensure that funds generated from the sale  3          C          NA          NA      Funds from this account supported activities of a number of NGOs: Safe
pars. 13       of newsprint to he provided to the New Vision newspaper are                                             Motherhood Initiative; Primary Health Care activities for the Uganda
used to establish a health revolving account to support                                                 Council of Women; UWESO and the North Ankole Project Modalities for
mother-and-child health care programs of NGOs through                                                   further work with NGOs are being developed under the District Health
MOH.                                                                                                    Services Pilot and Demonstration Project.
cr
CL



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants contJ
DCA                    I)eslripliun of Coveuant                Covenint  lPreseit i  Originail  Aclial                                  Comiments
IReferelice                                                         type        status       date       date
Schedule 4    In order to define the role and relationship of NGOs in  5,12        NC         NA         NA      A mechanism for working with NGOs was not established and most of the
para. 14      providing complementary support to MOI's health services                                           activities were subsequently not carried out
the Borrower shall:
(i) conduct a national workshop with the assistance of a duly
qualified expert;
(ii) strengthen the coordination of activities of such
organizations with MOH;
(iii) provide finds for new initiatives of Ugandan NGOs,
especially for development of women's groups.
Covenant types:                                                                                            Present status:
I = Accounts/audits                                  8 = Indigenous people                                C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue                    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting                 CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries                     10 = Project Implementation not covered              CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                 by categories 1-10                               NC = Not Complied
4 = Counterpart funding                               11= Sectoral or cross sectoral budgetary
5 = Management aspects of the                             or other resource allocation
Project or executing agency                       12 = Sectoral of cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                               regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement                         13 = Other
o ms
8



36
Uganda                                       PART II
First Health Project                               Table 11
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement                                            Commen th
Number and Title
OD 10.60          The Bank requires appropriate accounting policies to ensure accountability for all funds of the
Accounting,       borrower and submissions of audited financial statements for each fiscal year from the date agreed at
Financial         negotiations.
Reporting, and
Auditing          Accounts have been maintained for the project.
OD 13.10          The Bank requires Borrower compliance with audit reporting and details the scope of coverage by the
Borrower          audits.
Compliance
with Audit         Audits were submitted for all the years though they tended to be delayed (submitted after the due
Covenants         date).
OD 6.30           The Bank expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by contributing 10%
Local Cost        minimum (net of taxes and duties) to the project.
Financing and
Cost Sharing      The Borrower's contribution amounted to 6% percent of total project cost as compared to the
projected level of 10% projected at appraisal.
OD 13.25          The Bank allows, on an exceptional basis, some or all of the project savings to be used to fnance
use of project    additional project activities not included in the original project description, provided that
Cost Savings      implementation of the project is satisfactory (including substantial compliance with the Agreements),
the activities proposed have high priority and are consistent with project objectives, and that they have
been fully appraised by bank staff, and financing these activities does not violate country limits on cost
sharing.
The project realized some savings from activities not carried out under the health education component
(purchase of radio transmitters) and reduced scope of civil works. The savings were used to finance
additional rehabilitation at the Joint Clinical Research Center and Mulago hospital and to pilot policy
reforms in preparation for the follow-on projects.
OD 13.30          The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a project to permit (a)
Extension of      implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority contracts; (b) the extension of the validity of
closing dates     letters of credit covered by a special commitment or (c) provision for retention payments, when the
conditions for release (e.g. completion of performance tests or expiration of a warranty period) are met
after the closing date.
The Bank allowed 4 months after the project closing date for disbursements retention payments for a
number of civil works contracts.
OD 13.55          The borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation on the project's execution
and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank's and borrower's performance of their respective
ICR preparation    obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent to which the purposes of the loan were achieved,
adopts a plan for the operational phase of the project and assists the Bank in ICR preparation.
The Ministry of Health prepared its own evaluation of the project's achievements (the summary of the
report is attached to the ICR) and participated in the ICR preparation with the Bank team.



37                               PART II
Table 12
Uganda
First Health Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Actual Staff Inputs 1/
S-'ag *,r l'rnjmcl Cycile            ' Strff WeeLk    Co%ts
tirl'Irni'ec {  iS'IDO
Preparation to Appraisal                 77.4         179.3
Negotiations through Board Approval      14.0          33.9
Supervision                              154.5        421.9
Completion 2/                             6.1          31.0
Total                                    252.0        666.1
1/ Source: MIS - World Bank
2/ Resources for Completion are provided for the period upto January 1, 1997.
Memo: The MIS shows planned resources data for only two years FY 1996 and
FY 1997.



Uganda
First Health Project
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of project         Month/   Number   Davs        Specializtd staff skills                    Inplefnent  D Develop-   Types of rrohlems
Cycle                    year        of           in field   reprewenled                           -atinn          nent
e  yr        persons                                                       status        1lImip:oc    _
Preparation to Appraisal  2/1988     14           21        Public Health Specialists, IEC Specialist,
Operations Officers, Management
Specialists, Architect
Board to Effectiveness    9/1988     10           14         Public Health Specialists, IEC Specialists,                       Critical PIU staff not yet appointed. Work programs
NGO Specialist, Architect, Management                             not developed. Delays in opening special account
Specialist, Medical Equipment Expert                              and signing agreements with SIDA. Lack of
I coordination among implementing agencies.
Supervision              2-3/1989    4            12        Operations Officers, Public Health          HS            HS       PIU still weak. Work programs not yet developed.
Specialists, [EC Consultant, Architect,                           Project Coordination Committee not yet in place.
___ __                  Management Specialist                   __w
11                                                                                                                             00
Supervision              4/1990      7                      Public Health Specialist, Economist, IEC    HS            HS       Delays in plumbing and electrical works at Mulago.
Specialist, Architect, Medical Equipment                          Delays in release of special account funds.
________        _______~ ~~ ExpertI
Supervision              8/1990      4            5         Public Health Specialist, TEC Specialist,   HS            HS       Delays in procurement of radio transmitters and in
Architect, Operations Officer                                     preparing the design for Rakai hospital. A number of
health education items found not viable and dropped
from project
Supervision              2/1991      3            12         Public Health Specialist, Architect,       HS            HS       Major problem - design of Rakai hospital found to be
_  _______ ________  Operations Officer                                                               unacceptable and audits overdue.
Supervision              9/1991      3            12        Public Health Specialist, Architect,        US             S       Project management unsatisfactory, project
Operations Officer                                                coordinator to be replaced. Actions from previous
mission not addressed. Audit report incomplete and
qualified. TA not effectively used.
-   a-



Table 13. continued.
Stage ofproject          Month/   Number   llays           Speeialized staffskills                linplement  D)evelop-  Tyles of lroblems
Cycle                    year        of          in field  represented                            -ation        meet
-         .  persons                                                     status         Impact
Supervision              3/1992     3            12        Public Health Specialist, Architect,        S            HS       Major cost overruns on civil works as a result a
Operations Officer, Management                                   number of institutional houses at Mulago and for the
Specialist                                                       PIU to be dropped.
Supetvision              2-3, 1993   3           24        Public Health Specialist, Architect,       US             S       Shortfall in counterpart funds. Need to reduce scope
Operations Offtcer                                               of work at Rakai and Mulago. Delay on Borrower
action on radio transmitters.
Supervision              4/1993      1           4         Public Health Specialist                    S             S       Rakai and Mulago civil works - scaling down.
.____________________                              ____________                Procurement of radio transmitters still unresolved.
Supervision              6/1994     3            14        Public Health Specialist, Management        S             S       Rakai and Mulago civil works - scaling down.
Specialist, Implementation Specialist,                           Procurement of radio transmitters still unresolved.
Supervision              2/1995      2           3         Projects Officer, Operations Officer        S             S       Quality of construction at Buhozi clinic
unsatisfactory - works scaled down, audits qualified,
inadequate maintenance of rehabilitated facilities.
Supervision              10/1995    5            10        Public Health Specialist, Architect,        S             S       Procurement delays - Joint Clinical Research Center.
Operations Officer, Management                                   Qualified Audits. Earlier counterpart funding
Specialist                                                       shortfall unlikely to be met.
Supervision              2/1996     2            7         Architect, Operations Officer               S            HS       Counterpart funds backlog not settled. Some audit
qualifications not yet addressed. Some civil works
on Rakai and JCRC not yet completed.
Completion               8/1996      5           4          Operations Officer, Clinical Specialist,   S             S       Project activities completed.
Architect
-   -   - ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~



40
APPENDIXA
Page 1 of 9
UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPOR T MISSION
AIDE-MEMOIRE
AUGUST23, 1996
1.    An IDA team visited Uganda, August 12-23, 1996, to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the First Health Project. The team comprised Ms. Mary
Mulusa (Task Team Leader); Ms. Beatrice Helbling (Operations Officer); Ms. Harriet
Nannyonjo (Operations Officer); Mr. Frederick Walker (Consultant Architect) and Dr.
Kenneth Grant (ODA Consultant). The ICR is based on a review of project documents
and reports; discussions with implementing agencies; and visits to rehabilitated health
facilities. We were unable to visit all rehabilitated facilities as they are widely dispersed
geographically. However, almost all the facilities have been visited by previous World
Bank supervision missions.
2.    This aide-memoire summarizes the team's findings:
3.    We would like to congratulate the Ministry of Health for preparing a Project
Completion Report that represents the Government's own evaluation of the project. Our
work was greatly facilitated by this report. Ministry of Health staff and NGOs met during
the field visits and keenly discussed the achievements and shortcomings of the project.
They offered suggestions for improving health sector projects.
4.    The team also met with the Honorable Dr. Crispus Kiyonga, Minister for Health.
He summarized the achievements of the First Health Project and commended his staff for
preparing a thorough evaluation of the project. The Minister raised a number of critical
issues which need to be addressed in the health sector. He acknowledged that the project
has supported substantial physical improvements at the Mulago hospital, at eight district
hospitals and at forty health centers. However, he pointed out that the project has only
scratched the surface as many more health facilities remain in deplorable condition.
There is need for rehabilitation of more hospitals and health centers, to bring the facilities
to an appropriate and acceptable standard. This is especially critical for reviving the
referral system and making it operate effectively.
5.    The Minister restated the Government's commitment to: (a) increasing resources
to the Health Sector (including exploring alternative sources of financing such as user
fees and health insurance schemes); (b) increasing resources to preventive and promotive
health programs with particular attention to health education; (c) strengthening
collaboration with other health providers such as NGOs (e.g. by seconding Government
staff to NGO health units); (d) building capacity for improved resource allocation based
on work plans at both central and district levels; (e) strengthening decentralization of
health service provision to the districts. Evidently, the time has come for the Government
to consider a sector-wide approach to health sector investment. It was agreed that the



41                       APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 9
MOH should develop a longer term strategy (e.g. through the five-year plan) for the
sector which can be used as a basis for preparing a sector-wide program for support by
donors. The World Bank is prepared to provide the necessary technical support.
Achievement of Objectives
6.    The main objectives of the project were to carry out urgent physical rehabilitation
of selected health care facilities; construct a hospital in Rakai district; strengthen
preventive health programs; and, improve the internal efficiency and long-term
effectiveness of health care delivery. To achieve these objectives the project provided
funds to: (a) rehabilitate key areas of Mulago Hospital, re-equip the Blood Transfusion
Center, rehabilitate eight district hospitals and thirty rural health centers and construct a
hospital in Rakai district; (b) promote health status by creating awareness through health
education programs for all levels of the population, develop a community-based
distribution system for drugs and supplies and develop a program for counseling and
patient management for people infected with AIDS; (c) strengthen the Health Planning
Unit, the management capability in the MOH, hospitals and rural health facilities and
develop alternative ways of ensuring adequate financing of the health sector.
7.    Overall, project objectives were substantially achieved. The project was
implemented within the original schedule and it closed on March 31, 1996. An additional
period of four months was allowed by IDA to accommodate final payments. Details of
achievements of each project component are as follows:
8.    Physical Rehabilitation and equipment of Health facilities. Objectives of this
component were substantially achieved. All the civil works were completed by March
31, 1996. Rehabilitation included: key areas of Mulago hospital (elevators, kitchen,
laundry, Central Sterile Supplies Department, workshops and living quarters) eight
district hospitals, forty health centers and critical extensions to the Joint Clinical Research
Center. At the time of project appraisal, information on the status of the selected
facilities was inadequate and adjustments had to be made to the scope of works of a
number of the facilities as implementation proceeded. In addition, other agencies took
over a number of the activities. At Mulago Hospital, the African Development Bank
rehabilitated some of the areas originally included in the IDA project. Three health
centers were rehabilitated by AMREF, World Vision and German Volunteer Service.
The most significant change in the civil works was the rehabilitation of five health centers
and a District Medical Office in Rakai instead of the construction of a new 1 00-bed
district hospital. This decision was based on the findings of the "Health Personnel Study"
that highlighted the need for health facilities to be based on anticipated demand rather
than arbitrarily set standards for districts. On the whole, the quality of civil works was
satisfactory. The Austrian Government provided equipment through a grant of US$ 10
million. The rest of the equipment was provided under the credit. The rehabilitation and
equipment gave a major face-lift to the selected facilities and reinstated capacity that had



42
APPENDIXA
Page 3 of 9
fallen out of use over a long period.1 The credit also successfully provided drugs and
supplies and supported training of hospital maintenance workers. All this has contributed
to enhanced health services. Apart from problems discussed above, the project
experienced delays during the construction period and a number of contracts had to be
extended (see Annex 1). This was largely due to complicated inter-governmental
clearance procedures and a weak Project Implementation Unit (PIU). These problems
were gradually overcome with the strengthening of the PIU and improved
communications between different government agencies.
9.    Health Education and Community Activities. A number of the planned
activities for this component were implemented. The "New Vision" that had the widest
circulation was supported through subsidized newsprint to increase its circulation. The
paper has continued to carry health messages regularly. Support was provided to
"Munno" a local language newspaper that carried messages for a while before it closed
down due to financial problems. Four mobile cinema vans were purchased to strengthen
regional health education activities. Regions, districts and the army were also provided
with equipment and training materials. Training for journalists and health education
officers in newspaper, radio and television techniques was carried out. Support to
development of radio programs was provided through the establishment of a liaison office
in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Health messages for AIDS prevention
were developed. However, a number of innovative ideas (comic books, school exercise
books, public transport stickers and posters and lottery tickets) for carrying health
messages were not implemented because of an inability to resolve procurement and
administrative problems. Some of these activities were later picked up by other donors
and NGOs whose procedures were less cumbersome. Equipment to boost transmission
by public radio stations was not purchased due to failure to define requirements and carry
out the procurement. The community-based drugs distribution program which included
renovation of the Central Medical Stores (CMS) was not carried out. DANIDA later
rehabilitated the CMS as part of its assistance to the essential drugs program. It is
extremely difficult to assess the impact of this component since a number of the activities
were not carried out. A Knowledge, Attitude and Practices study carried out in three pilot
districts in the early years of the project was not repeated as recommended in the mid-
term review. However, a positive outcome of this component is that it provided an
impetus for support of health education activities by other agencies. In a number of cases
it proved easier for the Health Education Unit to deliver planned activities with funding
from other donor programs instead of the First Health Project. Overall, the objectives of
the component were partially achieved.
10.   Strengthening the delivery of health care. Objectives for strengthening the
delivery of health care were substantially achieved. Planning, monitoring and evaluation
in the MOH was strengthened through technical assistance and training. With support
For example, the Mulago hospital hostels for students are now operating at full capacity as compared to
between 30-40% capacity before the rehabilitation.



43                       APPENDIXA
Page 4 of 9
from the project, the Planning Unit developed the health sector policy, the "White Paper"
in 1993 and the Three-Year Health Plan (1993/94). Through decentralization, the
Government policy on management of health services has changed from a top-down
approach to one of delegating responsibility for planning and service delivery to districts.
With guidance of the Planning Unit, the districts are now in their second year of
producing annual health work plans as a basis for resource allocation. Districts have also
been supported in developing capacity for implementation and financial accounting.
Management of health services delivery has been enhanced with the establishment of
management committees for hospitals and health centers. These committees which
include representatives of health services, the local administration and community
leaders, are responsible for administration and financial management including resource
generation. The project has supported the development of a Quality Assurance Unit
responsible for overseeing the quality of the decentralized health services. A start has
been made on development of a health information system but this is still a long way
from generating information for use by managers to improve health services.
Development of health care financing alternatives has fallen below expectations (see
below). Activities involving NGOs (except support to Safe Motherhood Initiatives,
physical rehabilitation and equipment) were not carried out as modalities for working
with NGOs were not fully developed.
11.   Achievement of Financial objectives: Financial objectives have been partially
achieved. Annual budget frames have been introduced as part of the annual planning
process. These allow the MOH to monitor trends in health expenditure. The planning
unit now produces reports of trends in health expenditures which show the break-down
between primary care and hospital care. Total Government expenditure on health has
risen from 19.5 billion shillings in 1992/3 to 44.7 billion shillings in 1995/6. Expenditure
on primary health care has risen from 25% to 32% while that spent on hospitals has
declined from 70% to 58% during the same period. The proportion spent on management
has risen from 5% to 10%. Donor funding still accounts for the most significant share
(72% in 1995/96) of primary health care spending. Progress on developing alternative
schemes for health care financing has fallen far below expectations. This was almost
certainly due to the very real political difficulties in introducing user charges in a
situation in which the Government has traditionally guaranteed free medical treatment
financed through the central budget. Delegation of management and financial
responsibility to districts has led to some progress in developing alternative financing
mechanisms, notably cost sharing through user charges. This is still in its early stages but
the ground work has been laid and support is continuing through the District Health
Services Pilot and Demonstration Project (DHSP). Many hospitals and health units are
raising up to 10% of their non-staff budget through cost sharing and funds are retained at
the local level. No other financing mechanisms were considered under the First Health
Project, but local health insurance schemes are being piloted under the DHSP.
12.  Institutional development. Objectives for institutional development have been
substantially achieved. Two key units assisting the decentralization process have been
strengthened. As mentioned above, the project has supported capacity building of the



44                         APPENDIX.A
Page 5 of 9
MOH Planning Unit. The unit is providing guidance to districts in planning,
implementation and financial management as well as monitoring and evaluation. In
addition, a Quality Assurance unit has been established to oversee the technical aspects of
health service delivery. This unit in particular, plays a critical role in coordinating and
monitoring the different processes of decentralization at the district level. The
establishment of management committees for each health facility has contributed to
enhancing local involvement in planning and management of health services and has been
a major contribution to the development of cost sharing.
13.   Poverty reduction objectives. This project was not specifically designed as a
poverty reduction intervention. However, because the poor live predominantly in rural
areas, the rehabilitation of hospitals and health centers in rural areas has significantly
increased access of the poor to quality health services. In Kampala where the only
alternative hospitals are managed by NGOs charging full cost recovery, the refurbishment
of Mulago has provided access to good quality services to the urban poor as has the
rehabilitation of Naguru, Kiswa and Kisenyi health centers.
14.   Implementation Record. This project responded to an emergency in post-war
Uganda and was therefore prepared in less time than is normally allocated for
preparation of this type of project. Disbursement data show that after a start-up delay of
six months, the project picked up and most activities were completed by the project
closing date of March 31, 1996. An amount of US$ 41.9 million dollars was disbursed
out of the IDA credit of US$ 42.5 million2. However the appreciation of the SDR against
the dollar will result in a balance of $ 2.5 million to be canceled. The SIDA grant of US$
6.5 million and the Austrian grant of US$ 10 million were fully disbursed. The
disbursement record is commendable given the difficulties encountered in the course of
implementing the project. Difficulties experienced at the beginning of the project are
largely due to the fact that very little time was devoted to preparing implementing
agencies for the task ahead. There was no implementation manual prepared and no
project launch workshop was held.
15.   Counterpart funds. The project suffered major setbacks due to shortage of
counterpart funds. Counterpart funds amounted to only US$ 3.5 million instead of the
planned US$ 6.5 million. This resulted in a Government contribution of 6% of total
project costs instead of the planned 10%. In the early part of project implementation,
release of funds from the Treasury was often delayed and the amounts were below
budgeted levels. This led to significant shortfalls in those expenditure categories that
depended heavily on counterpart funds (in-country workshops and seminars, incremental
operating costs of the PIU and key departments of the MOH: planning and health
education). We do acknowledge that shortage of counterpart funds was common to all
2  The original credit amount was US$ 52.5 million. The Governrment received an Austrian grant of
US$ 10 million and as a consequence the IDA credit was scaled down by the same amount.



45
APPENDIXA
Page 6 of 9
IDA/GOU projects. Despite these problems, the First Health Project has one of the best
disbursement records for projects in Uganda.
16.   Audits. A number of qualifications in the audits of the project remained
unresolved for a long time. Most of these were resolved with the exception of Buhozi
clinic which was completed much later than envisaged. IDA awaits the final report on
the clinic in view of this qualification which was under investigation by the Government.
17.   Efficiency, Effectiveness and Sustainability. At Mulago hospital, there is
evidence of an increase in workload of most departments over the last four years (from
66,101 admissions in 1992 to 72,105 in 1995). The rehabilitation program has
contributed to this increase as Mulago provides much better services than other facilities
in Kampala. However, the hospital is still plagued with serious shortages of drugs and
supplies and funds for maintenance activities (preventive in particular) are insufficient. It
will become increasingly difficult for the central government to provide adequately for
the hospital while reallocating more funds from secondary and tertiary level facilities to
primary health care. To address this issue, the Government commissioned a study on
ways to make the hospital autonomous. The study was funded by ODA and it has made
the recommendations summarized below:
a) Roles of Mulago and the Kampala City Council in health services provision
should be urgently defined;
b) KCC should strengthen its services at district and health center level;
c) KCC should explore the possibility of commissioning more secondary care from
mission hospitals;
d) Discussions should also cover the possibility of KCC compensating Mulago under
a service agreement, for the primary care services carried out at Mulago;
e) An independent management board (with powers to hire and fire its own staff and
raise revenues including setting appropriate fee levels) should be considered for
Mulago hospital;
f) The training schools for nurses and paramedical staff should be separated from
Mulago Hospital and placed under separate management;
g) There should be a Memorandum of Understanding between Mulago and the
University setting out responsibilities and financial obligations for each institution;
h) Mulago should further develop its outreach services.



46                      APPEND1X A
Page 7 of 9
18.   The Government is committed to implement the necessary changes and it is
proposed that Mulago hospital will be autonomous by the 1998/9 financial year. This
move will pave the way for addressing long-term sustainability for Mulago.
19.   The rehabilitated hospitals and health centers have experienced increased activity
when compared with similar facilities which have not been rehabilitated. The improved
physical environment has contributed positively to staff morale and made it possible to
recruit and retain more staff. Experience has shown that the face-lift of rehabilitated
facilities restores confidence of users and enhances the ability to raise revenues through
user fees. This will increase the financial sustainability of the hospitals and clinics in the
long run. In the meantime, many facilities are setting aside a portion of the cost sharing
revenue usually in the order of 20% for maintenance. However, these funds are not
adequate to meet the maintenance needs of the facilities. Efforts are still needed to
provide more funds for maintenance. As mentioned earlier, the districts now have the
mandate for resource mobilization and allocation and are exercising it with varying
degrees of success. The Government should continue to assist them in strengthening this
capacity. The support of the Quality Assurance and Planning units is expected to
contribute to a more efficient and effective service delivery system.
Borrower performance
20.   The Government was highly committed to implementation of the project but the
project suffered setbacks in the first two years of implementation. The staff in the PIU
were relatively inexperienced and had no prior knowledge of World Bank procedures. In
addition, since the capacity building and implementation of the project was largely
concentrated in the PIU, ownership was confined to the PIU. This created a problem for
collaboration with other departments and accounted for the fact that some departments
(Health Education in particular) were not aware of their responsibility in the
implementation process nor could they get through the "red tape". As a result, a number
of activities were either not carried out or financed by other donors. Covenant
compliance was only partially satisfactory, the most significant weakness being
consistent delays and qualifications in audit reports. Counterpart funds were inadequate
and often delayed. There were also delays in procurement of goods and services and
weak contract administration. The MOH recognized these problems and made efforts to
address them. More qualified and competent staff were hired for the PIU. Technical
assistance was brought in to strengthen the PIU and the MOH, and staff were trained in
World Bank procurement, financial and disbursement procedures. Efforts were also
made to enhance coordination among implementing departments in the MOH and other
ministries. These actions greatly contributed to speeding up implementation.
Bank Performance
21.   The 1988 Staff Appraisal Report provides a fairly thorough analysis of the health
sector given the limited data available at the time. Three main risks were identified: (a)



APPENDIXA
Page 8 of 9
lack of implementation capacity in MOH 3(b) uncertainty over the feasibility of
developing alternate methods of financing; and (c) lack of motivation at all levels of the
civil service mainly due to low levels of remuneration. With the benefit of hindsight, the
accuracy of these risks can be confirmed. In addition, costing and timing of such a large
project was a challenge given limitations in data availability. This meant that changes in
design, modifications in objectives and timing were to be expected. Nonetheless, the
project could have benefited from more World Bank staff supervision time. This would
have enabled corrective actions to be taken more regularly instead of awaiting the major
mid-course restructuring. Given the magnitude of civil works and the inherent problem
of insufficient maintenance funds, far greater emphasis should have been placed on
enhancing the administrative and financial ability of the MOH to sustain the
rehabilitation efforts. It is therefore hoped the following projects (Sexually Transmitted
Infections project and the DHSP project) will address some of the shortcomings of the
First Health Project.
Key Lessons Learned
21. Lessons learned from the project are:
a) More effort is required in assessing likely counterpart funding and recurTent
support to proposed investment.
b) The implementation experience demonstrates the value of capacity building for
institutional strengthening.
c) There should be greater involvement of all MOH departments, other ministries,
NGOs and to the extent possible the private sector in project design. This helps to
build ownership among all agencies implementing project activities. Each
implementing body should be aware of its responsibilities. The selection procedures
and contractual agreements with NGOs and other implementing agencies should also
be worked out before implementation starts.
d) Clear guidelines on project implementation procedures (including procurement
and disbursement) are crucial. Procurement plans should be drawn up during
appraisal.
e) Project design should allow for a substantial degree of flexibility. The health
sector is fairly volatile not just in terms of the disease burden e.g. the AIDS
epidemic, but also in terms of the policy environment such as the recent decision to
Mainly due to under-staffing and serious financial and managerial problems.



48
APPENDIX A
Page 9 of 9
decentralize provision of services. The tasks facing it cannot always be predicted
years ahead and major projects must be responsive to changing priorities.
f) With the increasing needs in the sector, it is timely to shift from narrowly defined
projects to a sector wide program approach with an appropriate financing plan that
takes into account both investment and recurrent expenditures.
append-a doc/c/fr



49
Annex 1
IMPLEMENTA TION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
UGANDA
FIRSTHEALTH PROJECT
(CR. NO. 1934-UG)
18-25 AUGUST, 1996
CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
Site Visits:
Masindi District Hospital and 4 Health Centers (08/19/96):
Contractor:       Messrs. Concorp International
Consultant:       Messrs. C & Q Associates
Tender Price:     US$ 2,049,790
Final Price:      US$ 2,191,673
Consultant Fee:   US$ 109,206
Start on Site:    April, 1991
Completion:       September, 1992
1.    The contract included some new construction and rehabilitation of existing
structures. The site is fenced and located in the center of Masindi Town with plenty of
space for future development. Individual buildings for each activity are spread over the
site and include: national medical equipment office, private patient ward (4 beds), new X
ray building, 20 bed maternity ward (200 visits and 5 deliveries per day), 26 bed pediatric
ward, operating theater, MCH (100 per day)/ante-natal (150 per day)/FP clinic (20 per
day), 46 bed general ward, mortuary, new central kitchen, outpatients (30-40 per day),
night duty house, tailoring, 6 bed isolation ward, medical stores, physiotherapy,
administration and 8 staff houses and 19 staff quarters.
2.    Water from a borehole to the storage tank is available on site, mains electrical
power can be intermittent. A new generator is on site but there are insufficient funds to
install this at present. The hospital has only one old vehicle and new ones are urgently
required. In general the hospital is well equipped, however, new delivery tables were
defective, no incubators were available, some sterilizers were not operating, and some
beds were broken and unrepaired.
3.    Major defects included: no ceiling to the male general ward as this had been eaten
by termites, evidence of termite penetration in most areas of the hospital, floor cracking
and crazing evident in most blocks, some doors rotten and eaten away, and paint of
corrugated iron roofing sheets had worn away. The overall appearance of buildings was
good and there were no signs of severe deterioration, however, the buildings have



50
received no maintenance since September 1992 and it is advised that some areas will
need a coat of paint over the next year.
4.    The hospital prepares a quarterly budget which goes to the District for approval.
This budget is shared with Kirandongo Hospital on a 3/5 to 2/5 split basis. The total
budget request for the last quarter was Ush. 340 million or Ush. 204 million for Masindi
alone. Requests for maintenance funds are regularly included, however, the budget is
substantially cut at District level and no essential maintenance is carried out.
5.    Comment: The District Administrative Secretary must be advised that the hospital
should receive a regular and sufficient supply offunds to undertake essential
maintenance and repairs. The current problems occurring with termite penetration will
escalate and severe deterioration to structures will occur causing the hospital to slip
back to its broken-down state as at the time of appraisal. The preliminary eradication of
termites would cost only US$ 2, 000, which is a very small amount when considering the
damage that the termites will exact over the next twelve months.
Pakanyi Health Center (08/19/96):
6.    Situated 10 kilometers from Masindi on the Masindi-Gulu road. Well located
fenced site at side of road with area for future expansion. New buildings consist of a
health center which includes store, injection room, consulting/treatment room,
dispensary, 4 bed general ward, and delivery/maternity room. Other buildings include a
covered waiting shed, patient lavatories, placenta pit, 2 new staff quarters and another
quarter located in the old clinic building are also available. Solar power provides
electricity and water is available from a nearby borehole and 2 rain water storage tanks.
7.    The Health Center receives approximately 30 patients a day and undertakes 3-5
deliveries per week. The center is staffed with 4 nurses/midwives who receive their
salaries direct from the DMO's office. The center also receives Ush. 187,000 every
quarter as operating costs.
8.    Comment: The buildings were in good condition despite having had no
maintenance since their completion in 1992. Some minor defects ofpaint deterioration to
walls and the roof were apparent, however, buildings generally were very sound and well
constructed.
Joint Clinical Research Center (JCRC) (08/20/96)
Contractor:        Messrs. Roko Construction
Consultant:        Messrs. Norman and Dawbarn/Plan Systems
Tender Price:      US$ 698,000
Final Price:       US$ 823,236
Consultant Fee:    US$ 114,888
Start on Site:     October, 1995
2



51
Completion:       30 August, 1996
9.    The JCRC buildings are 99% complete. Both the General Ward block and
Outpatients are complete, however, some putty glazing still needs to harden, some site
clearance and cleaning is required, contractors huts need to be removed from site, and the
car parking area needs final compacting and applying with tarmac. The General Ward
includes: 2x8 bed wards, 2 sluice, 4 patient lavatory areas, 2 assisted baths, cleaners
room, nurse station and store, store, staff lavatory and counseling room. Outpatients
include: waiting room, reception/records, registration/records, tea kitchen, dispensary,
patient lavatories, x-ray, dark room, 3 counseling rooms, staff lavatories, casualty room,
treatment, sluice, blood sampling room, lecture room, and 3 consulting rooms.
10.   The buildings are constructed with concrete block plastered walls, IT4 corrugated
roof sheeting and granolithic floor finishes are very well constructed and finished.
Outstanding works, including painting putty glazing and finishing the car park are
advised for final completion by August 30,1996, ready for hand-over to JCRC. A final
payment request of US$ 196,000 is with IDA and still requires settlement. MOH have
received a retention bond from the main contractor covering the amount to be settled
during the six months maintenance period.
11.   Comment: The quality of workmanship is very good, however, it would seem that
the buildings will remain unusedfor some time as equipment andfurniture have still to
be purchased. It is a matter of concern that equipment is notyet available when this
contract has been running for nearly one year.
Mulago Hospital (08/20/96): Kitchen, Laundry and Living Quarters
Contractor:      Messrs. Spencon Services (Quarters) & Messrs. Roko Construction
Consultant:      Messrs. Gauff Consulting Engineers
Tender Price:    US$ 3,681,805
Final Price:     US$ 3,681,805
Consultant Fee:   US$ 900,787
Start on Site:   13 October, 1993
Completion:      28 February, 1995
Nakasero Nurses Quarters (10 units plus 2 staff quarters)
12.   Buildings occupied in May, 1995. Minor defects apparent, however, quality of
workmanship satisfactory.
Student Nurses and Trained Nurses Hostels and Doctors Mess
13.   Buildings occupied in March, 1995. Each building shows great improvement in
quality of workmanship. The inspection revealed that the buildings were still in sound
condition except for some minor defects such as: hand wash basins coming away from
3



52
wall, some power points blanked off and defective, external paint defects from pipe
leakage, leak in laundry ducting, flushing handles to lavatories missing, electrical systems
unsafe in one area, and some floor cracking apparent. Of concern is the lack of kitchen
equipment in the main hostel kitchen area. The MOH needs to address this without
further delay. Also, sani-bins need replacing in nurse lavatories. The warden stated that
maintenance was carried out by workshop staff on either personal request or the
submission of a service requisition form, however, some delays could be experienced in
getting these requests solved. The mission was advised that Mulago receives a yearly
allocation for maintenance of Ush. 800 million.
Doctors Quarters (72)
14.   Occupied mid-1995. Some buildings are now showing external paint defects and
the access road to this area is very bad. However, construction and finishes still remain
satisfactory.
Laundry
15.   Area generally satisfactory. Steam leakage to pipes require repair, this had been
reported to the maintenance workshop but action is yet to be taken. Further leakage also
continues to occur from overhead main feeder pipes. Bottom of machines going rusty
and these need raising above ground level on pads. A leak was apparent on the roller
press and one Universal Press needs correction as its automatic lifting above the working
level was too fierce. Hospital needs to investigate the possibility of a regular servicing
contract.
Kitchen
16.   Area generally satisfactory. Extractor hood over cooking equipment defective
resulting in bad staining and fungus growing on ceilings. Fan extract needs increasing
and extent of canopy needs enlarging.
Mulago: Medical Equipment Workshop
Contractor:        Messrs. Concorp International
Consultant:        Envirotec Consult
Tender Price:      US$ 216,421
Final Price:       US$ 216,421
Consultant Fee:    106,180
Start on Site:     September, 1993
Completion:        August, 1994
17.   Area generally satisfactory, however, central courtyard appears to be dumping
site for broken beds.
4



53
The mission was advised that the bio-medical equipment maintenance checking system
has now been expanded to include some building maintenance items and that a services
requisition form exists for the use of departments for reporting defects. Regular servicing
contracts exist for lifts and x-ray equipment. Major maintenance works which cannot be
carried out by the workshop are contracted out directly by the hospital.
Rakai District Health Centers - Rakai, Mutukula, Lyantonde, Kachera and Kalisizo
DMO Office
Contractor:        Messrs. Concorp International
Consultant:        Messrs. Sentoogo & Partners
Tender Price:      US$ 2,800,000
Final Price:       US$ 3,149,061
Consultant Fee:    US$ 153,644
Start on Site:    April. 1995
Completion:        31 March, 1996
Rakai Health Center (08/21/96)
18.   Works include: Outpatients Deparent: Waiting, examination, dressing,
injection, 2 medical assistant rooms, doctors office, pharmacy, store, and registration.
MCH and Ante Natal: 2 waiting rooms, ante natal room, vaccination, examination,
counseling, x-ray, laboratory, dental clinic, and store. Operating Theater: Anesthetic,
recovery ward, major operating theater (a/c provided), scrub up, 2 sluice, sterilization and
preparation area, 2 sterile stores, minor operating theater, 2 staff changing, doctors office,
store, and day ward. Mateity/Delivery: waiting, assisted bath, examination, linen
store, duty room, premature babies room, sluice, 2 delivery rooms, and shower area.
Matemity Ward: 2x8 bed wards, 2 nurse stations, 2 examination rooms, sluice, linen store
and outside bathrooms. Male and Pediatric Wards: 2x8 bed wards, 2 nurse station, 2
examination rooms, sluice, linen store and outside bathrooms. Kitchen Shed. 6 Staff
Quarters with separate ablution blocks and kitchens. Generator House.
19.   Water is not yet available on site but piping and storage tanks are installed and
ready for connection to the DANIDA water scheme, which is expected to be completed
later this year. Electricity is also to be supplied later this year. Water is currently being
obtained from rain water storage tanks at each of the buildings. The site to the main
hospital buildings is fenced and the area is well landscaped with flowering shrubs,
grassed areas and small trees. The state of construction of the buildings is good with no
visible signs of deterioration and cracking.
20.   Currently there are few staff on site, they include: I dental surgeon, 1 medical
assistant, 1 registered nurse, 1 enrolled mid-wife, 1 enrolled nurse, 4 nursing aides, 1
dental assistant and 2 watchmen. Daily through put to the outpatients is 20-25. An
ample supply of essential drugs was reported. The clinic has received equipment, much
of which was still in their original boxes. X-ray equipment was available but a
3



54
radiographer and technician had still to be posted. The dental clinic was only able to do
extracts and the dental chair had no gas, compressed air or water attachments.
21.   Comment: The new clinic is currently underutilized and understaffed People in
the District refer to this unit as the 'Rakai Hospital' and it is the intention of the DMO
and District personnel to run it as such. However, the District does not have the funds to
undertake this and discussions have taken place with local government and MOHfor the
necessary funds to be providedfrom the central government budget. The mission was
assured at the final meeting with MOH on 23 August 1996 that the Government was
taking up the matter offunding and staffing the Health Center and that the unit would be
fully operational in the very near future.
DMOs Office
22.   The DMOs office block was substantially completed and handed over in
November 1995. The building includes offices for the district medical officer, district
health visitor, district health inspector, education officer, TB and leprosy officer, assistant
inspector of drugs, records and a store and office for drug distribution to the district. The
site also includes a 26,000 liter rainwater storage tank, solar pump and generator house.
The overall standard of construction was satisfactory and the contractor was on site
taking care of the final defects and repairs under the six months maintenance period.
Kalisizo Health Center
23.   The contract included the addition and rehabilitation of an Outpatient Block,
MCH Unit, Operating Theater, Administration, Generator, Incinerator, 20,000 liter Water
Tank and an Ablution Block. Mains water and electricity are available. The buildings
were handed over to the DMO on January 31, 1996 and were equipped and occupied in
March 1996. The main contractor was currently on site repairing minor defects under the
maintenance contract. The overall standard of construction was of an acceptable
standard.
24.   Kalisizo is a 45-50 bed hospital which is currently running at 220% capacity with
over 100 in-patient residents in the buildings (80% of them have AIDs). The new
administration block has yet to be used as an office and is currently occupied by
approximately 30 pediatric patients because of the acute overcrowding elsewhere. Staff
include: 2 medical officers, 1 nursing officer, 4 enrolled mid-wives, 8 enrolled nurses, 1
dental assistant, 1 dental surgeon, 1 laboratory assistant and 1 attendant, 12 nursing aides,
1 electrician, 4 watchmen, 1 mortuary attendant, 1 pharmacist, 1 anesthetic, 1 secretary
and 1 driver. The hospital is fully equipped except for an x-ray machine, it also has 1
new vehicle.
25.   Comment: Many of the new and rehabilitated buildings have still to become fully
occupied and operationaL Assurances were given that this would be a gradual process
and that within the next three months all buildings would be fully utilized and effective.



55
Remedy for Correcting the Maintenance Problems Evident in all Buildings
26.  It is apparent from the visits to the completed buildings, except Mulago, that little
or no maintenance is being carried out at any facility. This being due to a number of
factors which include: lack of funds at the districts, lack of understanding by hospital
staff to remedy defects arising, inability of hospital administrators to push hard for the
necessary funds, and no regular inspection of premises to identify problems and deal with
them in a timely manner. At Mulago, it was also apparent that hostel wardens and service
department heads need some instruction on how maintenance needs can be assured. The
MOH are advised that this situation needs to be corrected immediately and that districts
need to be advised of the urgency for this.
27.  It is recommended that a workshop be held to raise awareness of the maintenance
problem. It should be attended by district hospital medical superintendents, DMOs,
administrators and a representative from the districts; unit heads from Mulago could also
be included. The workshop would focus on: what to look for, carrying out regular
maintenance inspections on buildings and equipment, record-keeping and preparation of
report forms, access to remedies (hospital handyman, equipment workshop or local
tendering), awareness of procedures for applying for maintenance funds, how to carry out
the physical inspection of a building and equipment where no maintenance has occurred,
and how to advise hospital staff to report when defects become apparent.
Resident Mission - Uganda
A:DOC2.DOC
08/23/96 4:06 PM
7



56
APPENDIX B
PrQiect Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1924-UG)  Summary Page I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT - IDA CREDIT 1934-UG
Project Implementation - Executive Summary
Preamble
This is a summary of the Implementation Completion Report for the First Health
Project, IDA Credit number 1934-UG. The full report finalized on 9th August, 1996, has
appended to it, the full cost tables and other details of implementation.
Background and Project Description
1.0   Political turmoil through two decades till the mid-80's left most of Uganda's
health infrastructure in a state of disrepair. Rising death rates, break-down of the health
system, resurgence of infectious diseases previously under control (such as measles and
malaria), rapidly growing AIDS epidemic - all amounted to a health crisis in Uganda. The
First Health Project responded to meet the needs of minimal rehabilitation as an
emergency post-war intervention and to pave the way for future sector operations. The
project objectives were:
1.1   Physical rehabilitation of selected health care facilities to make them operational
and to build a hospital in Rakai district.
1.2   Strengthening preventive health programs.
1.3.  Improving the internal efficiency and effectiveness of health care delivery.
2.0   The project, in three parts, aimed:
2.1.  To rehabilitate and construct health facilities (in Part A) by:
2.1.1  Rehabilitation of key areas of Mulago Teaching Hospital through re-establishment
of the water supply and installation and refurbishment of the sewage system; rehabilitation
of hospital elevators and living quarters of health staff; renovation and equipping of
hospital kitchens and the central sterile supplies department; construction and equipping
of a new electrical and mechanical workshop for the hospital; construction of security
fencing and repair of roads and paving within the hospital; supply of drugs and
consumable supplies; and training of hospital maintenance workers.



57
APPENDIX B
PrQiect Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934-UG)    Summarv Page 2
2.1.2 Rehabilitation of the Blood Transfusion Center in Kampala, including the
acquisition of blood typing and screening equipment, cold storage facilities and vehicles.
2.1.3. Rehabilitation of the essential services of eight district hospitals, including the
acquisition of equipment and the refurbishing of water supply and sewage systems.
2.1.4 Rehabilitation of thirty rural health centers and the acquisition of equipment and
vehicles.
2.1.5. Construction of a new hospital of about 100 beds in Rakai district including the
acquisition of equipment and supplies.
2.2.  To promote, (in Part B), health awareness through health education programs by
increasing use of the mass media, training of journalists and health education officers in
newspaper, radio and television techniques; production of health education materials for
use by National Resistance Army (NRA); acquisition of program support equipment for
Health Education Division; construction of lean-to-shelters; studies; Community activities
by developing a community-based program for distribution of drugs and supplies,
including condoms; a program of counseling and patient management to AIDS-infected
patients, including assistance to their families, and a health and hygiene education
program.
2.3.  To improve (in Part C), the delivery of health care by strengthening: the planning
unit and management capacity of the MOH; hospitals and rural health facilities through
management training; the financial performance of the system through improved planning
and budgeting and alternative schemes for financing health services including cost sharing
with beneficiaries; support for programs of Non-Governmental Organizations; project
management; and, preparation of a follow-on project.
3.    The Development Credit Agreement was amended on 13th October, 1994,
restructuring the project in order to: avoid duplications with other programs, adjust for
cost overruns in civil works and to allow for follow-on projects by:
3.1   Excluding from the project objectives:
(i)   The construction of security fencing and repairing of roads and paving at
Mulago hospital.
(ii)   The construction of a hospital in the Rakai district.
(iii)  The construction of lean-to-shelters; and community activities in the
second component of part B of the project.



58
APPEND1X2B
Project Completion Report - First Health Pro]ect (Cr. 1934-UG)   Summarv Page 3
3.2  Included among the project objectives were:
(i)   Rehabilitation of selected health centers in the Rakai district, including the
acquisition of equipment and supplies.
(ii)   Development and piloting of policy reforms in selected districts.
4.    Most of the project activities were completed by December, 1993. On July 31,
1996, expenditure figures in US$ million were:
Source      Amount of Credit
World Bank  US $ 40.48 out of 42.5. Due to change in SDR a balance of US$
2.5 million may be canceled. The absorption rate will be 95%.
SIDA        US$ 6.5 million was fully disbursed.
Austria     US$ 10 million was fully disbursed.
GOU         US$ 3.5 million as against a commitment of US$ 6.5
million (54%).
5.    The project was simple in design, 67% of which was for procurement of civil
works, equipment, material and supplies. It was well within the capacity of MOH to
implement with some external technical assistance. The Government of Uganda (GOU)
was modest in its request for assistance; IDA was responsive to the urgency of the
situation and to adjusting the project to changing circumstances during implementation.
6.    The following sector policy objectives were achieved:
(i)   Preparation of a national health plan which included actions for the
implementation of reforms involving the organization and management of
the health system (DCA article III, sections 3,03).
(ii)   Proposing a referral system while rationalizing staff distribution (DCA
article III, section 3.04).
(iii) Specific management studies were undertaken to guide development plans
(SAR part I para. 1.46).
7.    The financial objective was achieved in the civil works component. The cost
overruns on civil works contracts were largely within expected limits. A revolving fund
using counterpart shillings from the sale of newsprint to "New Vision" supported NGO
activities with a focus on maternal and child health programs. The institutional



59
APPEND1X B
Project Completion Report - First Health Prolect (Cr. 1934-UG)   Summary Page 4
development objective was achieved by increasing the number of staff trained in
preventive orientation to health care and upgrading the professional capacity of staff. A
health education division for Information, Education and Communication (IEC) was
established, complete with a set of health educators to support districts.
8.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project was implemented during a period
when Uganda was embarking upon a recovery process following two decades of civil
strife. Economic performance of the country had deteriorated significantly. In addition,
the country was faced with the 1987/88 drop in coffee prices, this had a negative impact
on Government revenues as taxes on coffee exports dropped from 4.6% of GDP in
1985/86 to only 0.1% of GDP in 1991/92. Government revenues increased slowly during
this period from 5.7% of GDP in 1987/88 to 8.2% of GDP in 1993/94. These factors were
largely out of the control of the Government and had adverse impacts on counterpart
funding for the project. Counterpart funds were often inadequate and were released late.
With a low overall national per capita spending on health, coverage was limited. The
morale of poorly paid health workers was low; supervision was inadequate and the
management information system and audits were inadequate to meet the commitments.
Further, at the early stage of institutional development, the interaction between separate
departments needed improvement. The Project Implementation Unit's ability to
coordinate with other departments of the Ministry ( as well as other ministries in the
GOU), and gamer support was therefore limited, it initially had a weak capacity for
contract management, thus leading to delays in procurement, among other factors.
Finally, the collaboration with NGOs was initiated without prior preparation of
administrative and contractual framework. This had to be developed much later.
9.    Performance Indicators. The Staff Appraisal Report did not provide performance
indicators. Hence a list of performance indicators was derived for the civil works
component, (Part I1I, Table 5). The civil works were satisfactorily executed while delays
in procurement pushed some works beyond the target date.
10.   Disbursement. After a start-up delay of two quarters, most civil works activities
were completed by end of December, 1993, earlier than anticipated (Part III, Table 4).
Total funds disbursed out of the IDA credit and out of local financing are shown in para 4
(see part III, Appendix C, Table 2).
11.   The Government of Uganda allocations in the budget vote for the project
amounted to 83%, but, the amount released (equivalent of US$ 3.8 million) fell below the
level needed (US$ 6.5 million). In the initial years even these releases were sporadic and
delayed, leading to shortfalls in funding of: civil works contracts, in-country workshops,
seminars, incremental operating costs, and key departments of the MOH (planning and
health education) which depended heavily on counterpart funding.



60
APPENDIX B
Project Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934-UG)   Summarv Page 5
12.   Part A: Civil Works. The selection and procurement of civil works for 8 rural
hospitals and 27 health centers (excluding those in Rakai districts) and for the
rehabilitation of the Blood Transfusion Center in Kampala, costing US$ 15.51 million,
were all implemented early in the project - with cost overruns. This led to delays while
the project was being re-structured. Later, the procurement of works for Mulago hospital,
two equipment workshops, five health centers in the Rakai district, were taken up at a cost
of US$ 10.51 million - totaling US$ 26 million (about 61% of the credit).
13.   Equipment Maintenance. The project aimed to strengthen the medical equipment
maintenance capacity through the construction of Mulago hospital medical equipment
maintenance workshop; the construction of Wabigalo central medical equipment
maintenance workshop and training of equipment maintenance workers. In summary,
IDA funds were applied to construction while SIDA funds facilitated training; funds from
the Austrian government (a parallel credit later converted to a grant) were applied to
procurement and installation of equipment.
14.   The unstable market and economic environment resulted in unexpected cost
overruns in the initial civil works. The external works, and parts of the sewage and water
works at Mulago hospital, as well as the construction of a hospital in Rakai were therefore,
dropped. The outcome of dropping the hospital construction at Rakai turned out to be a
cost-effective action with greater public benefits from increased access to primary health
services.
15.   Part B: Health Education Component. There were two sub-components: health
education and community activities.
Health Education. (i) The expanded use of the mass media: radio, television and
newspapers; (ii) workshops for health educators and training of village health workers;
(iii) material support to the Health Education Division of the Ministry of Health; (iv)
training of health education personnel; (v) studies (vi) assistance of the Public Health
Department of the National Resistance Army. In the print mass media, the project
supported the New Vision newspaper by providing 400 metric tons of newsprint over two
years to increase circulation of the newspaper. These funds were paid back by the
newspaper from its revenues; and were later made available to NGOs through a Maternal
Child Health revolving fund account used to support NGOs initiating PHC activities with
an income generating aspect. Even after the end of this component, the newspaper still
carries a special weekly publication of the population health page. The project procured
equipment and spare parts for Radio Uganda and Uganda Television to enable them to
increase airing of health messages. These messages have proved popular and are being
sponsored by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MOIB). The procurement of
radio transmitters for MOIB was not completed. The procurement process had to be
discontinued despite repeated attempts. After it was finally agreed to engage an
independent consultant to help prepare, evaluate and supervise the new procurement



61
APPENDIX B
Project Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934- UG) Summara Page 6
package whose specifications would be agreed upon by both the Government and the
World Bank. The package was prepared too late to be financed by the credit and now
MOIB will have to procure it from other sources. The project trained two journalists in
New Delhi who are now back working with the MOIB.
16.   Workshops for health educators and training of village level workers were
conducted in three districts. The program was very successful in increasing awareness of
the AIDS epidemic. Material support to Health Education Division comprised the
procurement of vehicles (including 4 cinema vans) , stationery, office equipment and
furniture and training for the division. Regional health education offices were
strengthened with transport and office equipment. The project trained 4 officers at
Diploma level in Health Education, two at Masters degree level and two graphic artists.
This was in addition to support for international workshops and study tours. The other
element of this sub-component was to conduct studies and to support the Public Health
Department of the National Resistance Army (NRA). Studies on Knowledge, Attitude
and Practices (KAP) were conducted in three districts. The studies revealed 85%
increased awareness of the community to AIDS. The project also assisted the NRA health
department by providing vehicles, office equipment, news gathering machines, training
abroad and facilitated senior officers to participate in international workshops and
seminars.
17.   The second sub-component comprising community activities was phased out of the
project (see para. 5).
18.  In part C of the project, the preparation of a White Paper on Health Policy (1993)
and the National Three Year Health Plan Frame 1993/94 -1995/96 were supported. The
White Paper was adopted by the Government and the National Plan Frame was launched
at a workshop for local community leaders and relevant officials, organized in Kampala
on 25th October, 1993, for all districts. The project further supported the preparation (by
local district health authorities) of strategic Three Year Health Plans covering the a period
1993-96, for all districts of Uganda. The plans were presented to the local legislative
councils and approved in all cases. The District Health Planning and Annual Work plan
exercises were supervised by the Planning Unit with active participation of the Ministry of
Local Government. Support to the Planning Unit also included training in health planning
and health economics. Finally, the project supported a senior economist to strengthen the
Health Planning Unit.
19.  In the component for strengthening management capabilities of MOH, the project
provided a Management Advisor who worked closely with the Permanent Secretary,
Director of Medical Services and the Minister for Health. The advisor was involved in the
following: preparation of the Health Policy White Paper; the Task Force on
decentralization of Health Services in Uganda; the district planning exercise; the
preparation of the STD/AIDS project and the District Health Services Project;



62
APPENDIX-B
Prqiect Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934-UG)   Summarv Page 7
development of alternate health financing approaches including cost recovery initiatives;
and, development of administrative arrangements for management of health facilities e.g.
formation of management committees. The project supported training in management,
local and international workshops, seminars and conferences related to policy process and
health development programs.
20.   Support was provided for NGOs as indicated below:
(i)   Safe Motherhood Initiatives - community based activities and training of
TBAs.
(ii)   Kihihi Health Center Project - construction.
(iii)  Women International Maternity Association (WIMA) - rehabilitation of
Nagulu, Kisenyi and Kiswa clinics.
(iv)  Busanza Community Health Project - community based activities, training
and construction of Buhozi clinic.
(v)   Joint Clinical Research Center - medical wards extension.
(vi)  UWESO.
(vii)  North Ankole Project - construction of Rushere Health Center.
(viii) World Vision International.
(ix)   Baale County Community Based Organization for Health - community
based activities, training and construction at Baale, Galiraya, Wabuwoko,
and Kayonza health centers.
(x)   Ruhinda Development Association - community based activities, training
and construction of health center at Ruhinda.
(xi)  Bunyaruguru Development Association - construction of
Kyavula/Kichwamba and Katerera Health centers.
The decentralization policy has enhanced the use of NGOs for the provision of
health services at community level.
21.   The project facilitated the MOH to review the National Health Policy and to
acquire a national health plan frame for purposes of guiding future investments in health.
The policy focuses upon sustainability by limiting interventions to a cost-effective
primary health care approach and on developing administrative arrangements at local level



63
APPENDIX B
Project Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934-UG)    Summarv Page 8
for management. To ensure durability of medical equipment, maintenance workshops
were established and personnel were trained in the maintenance of equipment.
22.   Studies. Twelve topics for investigation were selected for study, most having been
identified at appraisal. Both local and external consultants were contracted (Part III, Table
7). The studies combined a process of information gathering, (to fill the information gap
created by prolonged neglect during the years of civil strife), analysis of the situation, and
recommendations on the options and goals for the future. The studies also provided an
input to the Three Year National Health Plan and prepared the way for two follow-on
health projects of a more extensive scale.
23.   A special initiative was the testing and piloting of new policy reforms in the health
sector as part of preparation for a follow-on project. The specific objectives of the pilot
activities were; (a) to undertake a trial at the district level of a sustainable model for
delivery of minimum essential health service package; (b) to act as a test bed for capacity
building activities at the district and central level of health care management; and (c) to
initiate the testing of new policy reform based upon building capacity to assess cost-
effectiveness of interventions, using the burden of disease analysis. Activities were
undertaken by the MOH with technical assistance from SIDA for establishing supervision
for the three pilot districts. The pilot supported specific preparations for delivering
essential elements of primary health care that were identified as cost-effective. The
project further supported management training needs assessment in the pilot districts and
initiated management training in the field. Finally, the pilot initiated the building of a
capacity for cost-effectiveness assessments using data from the three districts. The
outcome of these initiatives fed into the preparation of the District Health Services Pilot
and Demonstration Project and its initiation following its effectiveness.
Performance of Key Players.
24.   Government of Uganda. At the start of project implementation, the MOH was
weak in management and the PIU took over the implementation of the project. In respect
of project implementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) staff had no prior
experience with IDA/World Bank procedures. There was no implementation manual in
place at the beginning of the project. The Government's compliance with covenants was
frequently delayed and partial (details on the status of each covenant are presented in Part
III, Table 9). Apart from the Health Planning Unit, other departments of the Ministry
were too weak to assume the responsibility for preparing departmental work plans to assist
with the district planning exercise. For future operations, the Ministry is already taking
steps to build capacity at the central level and further strengthen the effort at the district
level. Overall, the GOU only managed too attain 54% of its financial obligation for
counterpart funding. This financial constraint adversely affected the GOU performance.



64
APPENDIX B
Project Comipletin Report - First Health PrQiect (C. 1934- UG)    Summary Page 9
25.   IDAlWorld Bank. Identification of the post-war critical areas in which
intervention was necessary was successful. While IDA took risks, preparation did not
proceed swiftly enough to reflect the urgency of the situation. However, IDA kept the
project design flexibly simple and focused largely on civil works. Appraisal over-
estimated the capacity of the GOU to contribute counterpart funds at 10%. IDA also
underestimated the recurrent cost implications of the project. In supervision, IDA was
responsive to the changing priorities and needs of the project, paid attention to recurrent
funding constraints, and facilitated the MOH/PIU to manage initial maintenance
requirements for the rehabilitated health units.
Assessment of Outcome
26.   Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. The momentum of the
Government's health sector rehabilitation efforts was boosted. The project put the sector
on a path to recovery. The dilapidated health units were rehabilitated and their utilization
increased. Supplies for health care delivery began to flow, thus partially raising the
morale of health workers. In the north and the north-east of the country where civil strife
persisted, the effects were less noticeable.
27.   A department of health education has been established in the MOH and all districts
enabled to establish a capacity to prepare and execute information, education and
communication (IEC) programs. The institutional capacity of the Ministry has been
strengthened in addition to capacity at the district level to prepare strategic and annual
plans of operation. Pre-investment studies had a positive impact. The project fulfilled the
objective of preparing for more investments in the sector (STI and DHSP). It also
provided valuable information for the review of the government's White Paper on health
Policy and the Three-Year Health Plan Frame.
Key Lessons Learned
28.   The following lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementing the First
Health Project:
28.1  More attention should be paid to assessing the capacity for likely counterpart
funding and recurrent support for the proposed investment. Key performance indicators
need to be specified during project preparation. Inadequate counterpart funding leads to
delays in project implementation and the need to restructure the project. In addition,
project sustainability is compromised by poor assessment of necessary recurrent support.
28.2  Continued underfunding of the health sector will perpetuate low health services
coverage and constrain the application of cost-effective interventions by limiting the scope
of financial reforms required to shift funds to those interventions.



65
APPENDIXJB
Project Completion Report - First Health Project (Cr. 1934-UG) Summary Page 10
28.3  The implementation experience demonstrates the value of capacity building for
institutional strengthening. The MOH management and the capacity of the Health
Planning Unit greatly benefited from the experience and productivity improved.
28.4 Greater involvement of MOH departments in supervision of health care
management and delivery is reqaired, especially for developing standards and procedural
manuals to sustain the investment in the sector.
28.5 Decentralization and more autonomy for district implementation management will
require close supervision. Local involvement by users in the sustainability of health
services should also be enhanced.
28.6 Continuous training in procurement (especially contract management) and
disbursements enhances the performance of the PIU.
28.7  Formal arrangements prior to collaboration with NGOs are required to ensure both
compliance and facilitate monitoring.
28.8  Late financial audits need to be avoided. Continuous audits would be necessary
especially for decentralized operations.
Dr. Patrick Y. Kadama
Project Coordinator
Ministry of Health, Kampala
August 20, 1996



66
Appendix C.
Uganda
First Health Project
Details of Civil Works Costs i/
Activity                         SAR Estimnates    1 Actual Costs,
1SS '000 (includes     July 1996
contigency)      ______00__
A. Government Health Facilities
1. Medical Stores 2/                                             314.00             00
2. Rehabilitation of Mulago Hospital including                11,015.66        6451.15
medical equipment workshop 3/
3. Rakai Health Centers 4/                                     4,830.20        3303.10
4. Eight District Hospitals and Thirty Health                  6,699.80      15,332.00
Centers 5/
5. Renovation of Project Implementation Unit                     417.50         176.00
Buildings
6. Wabigalo Medical Equipment Workshop                           575.00         777.80
rotal (overnment Facilities                                  23,852.16      26,040.05
B. Non-Governmental Organizations Health Facilities
1. Joint Clinical Research Center: Outpatient dept         ----                 938.10
(OPD) and general ward.
2. Women International Maternity AID (WIMA).               ----                 264.70
Nagulu, Kisenyi and Kiswa clinics in Kampala.
3. Kihihi Health Center (construction of OPD, matenity     ----                 220.00
ward and staff quarters).
4. Rujumbura Development Foundation Clinic                 ----                 150.50
5. Bunyaruguru Development Association                     ----                  48.00
(construction of Kyavula/Kichwamba and Katerera Health
Centers).
6. Baale County Community Based Organization               ----                 220.00
for Health. (Baale, Kayonza, Kitimbwa/Wabuwoko and
Galirava health centers)._
Total NGO Facilities                                                           1841.30
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda
1/ Costs as of July 30, 1996.
2/ Medical Stores were dropped during project restructuring - work later carried with support from DANIDA.



67
Appendix C. Details of Civil Works. continued!
3/ Mulago Works included: Lifts; Electrical works; Living quarters (nurses hostels and doctors housing); Kitchen;
Laundry and Central Sterile Supplies Department; Mulago medical equipment workshop.
4/ In place of the planned new hospital in Rakai District a new health center and office for the District Medical
Officer were constructed and four health facilities rehabilitated: Mutukula dispensary, Lyantonde, Kachera and
kalisizo health centers.
5/ Rehabilitation of District Hospitals and health centers as follows:
(i) Iganga Hospital and two health centers: Mayuge and Narnungalwe.
(ii) Kayunga Hospital and nine health centers: Nakawuka, Buwama, Kanoni, Zirobwe, Nyimbe, Mpenja, Butoolo
and Wakyato.
(iii) Pallisa Hospital and two health centers;Kamoge and Budaka.
(iv) Lira Hospital and three health centers: Anyeke, Teboke and Aboke.
(v) Masindi Hospital and four health centers: Bwijanga, Buliisa, Kakumiro and Pakanyi.
(vi) Kambuga Hospital
(vii) Kabale Hospital
(viii) Kiboga Hospital and four health centers: Kiganda, Kasambya, Mwera and Kabasanda.
(ix) Health centers in Eastern Uganda; Kiyunga, Masafu and Nagongera



68
Appendix D.
Uganda
First Health Project
Utilisation of Rehabilitated Hospitals
Table 1. Outpatient Department New Cases (1992 - 1995)
Ilosiiital         1992       199         1994       1995
Kayunga               22,509     24,367      21,402     31,124
Lira                   8,630      9,216       8,894     10,644
Kabale                20,641     20,893      24,996     28,964
Kamibuga              31,150     28,004      33,240     36,244
Iganga                27,406     26,454      24,970     37,720
Pallisa               14,661     16,434      20,974     21,634
Kiboga                11,544     12,950      12,611     13,860
Masindi               10,574     11,642      10,934     13,795
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda.
Table 2. In-patient Admissions (1993 - 1995)
lHospital        1993        1994       1995
Kayunga             1,299      1,184       1,516
Lira                1,692      1,825       1,904
Kabale              2,340      2,613       2,692
Kambuga              922         864       1,175
Iganga              4,135      4,300       4,216
Pallisa             1,535      1,846       1,924
Kiboga               969       1,032       1,260
Masindi             1,294      1,108       1,426
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda.



69
Appendix E
Ministry of Health Recurrent Expenditure
A. Government
92/93    93194    94195    95/96
PHC                                4,885    7,054    4,118   14,396
Hospitals                         13,590   23,832   29,474   26,072
Management                          1064    2,490    4,008    4,200
Total                             19,539   33,376   37,600   44,668
B. Donor
PHC                               18,289   19,488   13,883   37,796
Hospitals                          6,345    2,731    1,403    2,920
Management                           844    1,844    1,187       97
Total                             25,478   24,063   16,473   40,813
C. Total: Government and Donor
PHC                               23,174   26,542   18,001   52,192
Hospitals                         19,935   26,563   30,877   28,992
Management                         1,908    4,334    5,195    4,297
Total                             45,017   57,439   54,073   85,481
Ministry of Health Capital Expenditure
92/93    93194    94/95    95/96
A. Government
PHC                                  103      133       93      101
Hospitals                            709      642    1,375      502
Management                          1964    2,491    5,865    2,554
Total                              2,776    3,266    7,333    3,157
B. Donor
PHC                                3,146    5,046    4,278    9,024
Hospitals                         29,021    8,515    3,674   10,707
Management                         9,561    3,099   12,640    8,570
Total                             41,728   16,660   20,592   28,301
C. Total: Government and Donor
PHC                                3,249    5,179    4,371    9,125
Hospitals                         29,730    9,157    5,049   11,209
Management                        11,525    5,590   18,505   11,124
Total                             44,504   19,926   27,925   31,458



70
Appendix E (continued)
Ministry of Health Total Expenditures Government and Donor
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
A. Government
PHC                                4,988    7,187    4,211   14,497
Hospitals                         14,299   24,474   30,849   26,574
Management                         3,028    4,981    9,873    6,754
Total                             22,315   36,642   44,933   47,825
B. Donor
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
PHC                               21,435   24,534   18,161   46,820
Hospitals                         35,366   11,246    5,077   13,627
Management                        10,405    4,943   13,827    8,667
Total                             67,206   40,723   37,065   69,114
C. Total: Government and Donor
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
PHC                               26,423   31,721   22,372   61,317
Hospitals                         49,665   35,720   35,926   40,201
Management                        13,433    9,924   23,700   15,421
Total             -               89,521   77,365   81,998  116,939



71
Appendix D.
Uganda
First Health Project
Details of Civil Works Costs 1i/
Activitv                        SAR Estimates       Actual Costs,
IISS '000 (includes    July 1996
contigency)         .SS'00I
A. Government Health Facilities
1. Medical Stores 2/                                            314.00             00
2. Rehabilitation of Mulago Hospital including               11,015.66        6451.15
medical equipment workshop 3/
3. Rakai Health Centers 4/                                    4,830.20        3303.10
4. Eight District Hospitals and Thirty Health                 6,699.80      15,332.00
Centers 5/
5. Renovation of Project Implementation Unit                    417.50         176.00
Buildings
6. Wabigalo Medical Equipment Workshop                          575.00         777.80
'oftal (Covernment Facilities                                23,852.16      26,040.05
B. Non-Governmental Organizations Health Facilities
1. Joint Clinical Research Center: Outpatient dept        ----                 938.10
(OPD) and general ward.
2. Women International Maternity AID (WIMA).              ----                 264.70
Nagulu, Kisenyi and Kiswa clinics in Kampala.
3. Kihihi Health Center (construction of OPD, matenity    ----                 220.00
ward and staff quarters).
4. Rujumbura Development Foundation Clinic                ----                 150.50
5. Bunyaruguru Development Association                    ----                  48.00
(construction of KyavulalKichwamba and Katerera Health
Centers).
6. Baale County Community Based Organization              ----                 220.00
for Health. (Baale, Kayonza, Kitimbwa/Wabuwoko and
Galirava health centers).
Total NGO Facilities                                                          1841.30
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda
1/ Costs as of July 30, 1996.
2/ Medical Stores were dropped during project restructuring - work later carried with support from DANIDA.



72
Appendix D. Details of Civil Works. continued/
3/ Mulago Works included: Lifts; Electrical works; Living quarters (nurses hostels and doctors housing); Kitchen;
Laundry and Central Sterile Supplies Department; Mulago medical equipment workshop.
4/ In place of the planned new hospital in Rakai District a new health center and office for the District Medical
Officer were constructed and four health facilities rehabilitated: Mutukula dispensary, Lyantonde, Kachera and
kalisizo health centers.
5/ Rehabilitation of District Hospitals and health centers as follows:
(i) Iganga Hospital and two health centers: Mayuge and Namungalwe.
(ii) Kayunga Hospital and nine health centers: Nakawuka, Buwama, Kanoni, Zirobwe, Nyimbe, Mpenja, Butoolo
and Wakyato.
(iii) Pallisa Hospital and two health centers;Kamoge and Budaka.
(iv) Lira Hospital and three health centers: Anyeke, Teboke and Aboke.
(v) Masindi Hospital and four health centers: Bwijanga, Buliisa, Kakumniro and Pakanyi.
(vi) Kambuga Hospital
(vii) Kabale Hospital
(viii) Kiboga Hospital and four health centers: Kiganda, Kasambya, Mwera and Kabasanda.
(ix) Health centers in Eastern Uganda; Kiyunga, Masafu and Nagongera



73
Appendix E.
Uganda
First Health Project
Utilisation of Rehabilitated Hospitals
Table 1. Outpatient Department New Cases (1992 - 1995)
Hospital           1992|      1993        1994       1995
Kayunga               22,509     24,367      21,402     31,124
Lira                   8,630      9,216       8,894     10,644
Kabale                20,641     20,893      24,996     28,964
Kambuga               31,150     28,004      33,240     36,244
Iganga                27,406     26,454      24,970     37,720
Pallisa               14,661      16,434     20,974     21,634
Kiboga                11,544     12,950      12,611     13,860
Masindi               10,574      11,642     10,934     13,795
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda.
Table 2. In-patient Admissions (1993 - 1995)
Hospital         1993        1994       1995
Kayunga             1,299      1,184       1,516
Lira                1,692      1,825       1,904
Kabale              2,340      2,613       2,692
Kambuga               922        864       1,175
Iganga              4,135      4,300       4,216
Pallisa             1,535      1,846       1,924
Kiboga               969       1,032       1,260
Masindi             1,294      1,108       1,426
Source: Ministry of Health, Uganda.



74
Appendix F
Ministry of Health Recurrent Expenditure
A. Government
92/93    93(94    94/95    95/96
PHC                                4,885    7,054    4,118   14,396
Hospitals                          13,590   23,832   29,474   26,072
Management                          1064    2,490    4,008    4,200
Total                              19,539   33,376   37,600   44,668
B. Donor
PHC                                18,289   19,488   13,883   37,796
Hospitals                          6,345    2,731    1,403    2,920
Management                           844    1,844    1,187       97
Total                             25,478   24,063   16,473   40,813
C. Total: Government and Donor
PHC                               23,174   26,542   18,001   52,192
Hospitals                         19,935   26,563   30,877   28,992
Management                          1,908    4,334    5,195    4,297
Total                             45,017   57,439   54,073   85,481
Ministry of Health Capital Expenditure
92/93    93/94    94/95    95(96
A. Government
PHC                                  103      133       93      101
Hospitals                            709      642    1,375      502
Management                          1964    2,491    5,865    2,554
Total                              2,776    3,266    7,333    3,157
B. Donor
PHC                                3,146    5,046    4,278    9,024
Hospitals                         29,021    8,515    3,674   10,707
Management                         9,561    3,099   12,640    8,570
Total                             41,728   16,660   20,592   28,301
C. Total: Government and Donor
PHC                                3,249    5,179    4,371    9,125
Hospitals                         29,730    9,157    5,049   11,209
Management                         11,525    5,590   18,505   11,124
Total                             44,504   19,926   27,925   31,458



75
Appendix F (continued)
Ministry of Health Total Expenditures Government and Donor
92/93    93194    94/95    95196
A. Governmmnt
PHC                                4,988    7,187    4,211   14,497
Hospitals                         14,299   24,474   30,849   26,574
Management                         3,028    4,981    9,873    6,754
Total                             22,315   36,642   44,933   47,825
B. Donor
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96
PHC                               21,435   24,534   18,161   46,820
Hospitals                         35,366   11,246    5,077   13,627
Management                         10,405    4,943   13,827    8,667
Total                             67,206   40,723   37,065   69,114
C. Total: Government and Donor
92/93    93/94    94/95    95196
PHC                               26,423   31,721   22,372   61,317
Hospitals                         49,665   35,720   35,926   40,201
Management                         13,433    9,924   23,700   15,421
Total                             89,521   77,365   81,998  116,939






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 25052R
30'                                     g            32'                                                  34'/                                                 35'
'i3rp~ 4ig                            %OMd Ce                               !UGANDA
j \~~~~~~ KoiTk_  umx,   O.'._  
)a                               o$t4_--.<'4 T G-K'UM        /       ,-    eo        - 
rniq                        Otio\  s 5 ,o  
r =                             xn R  e- R ,,, ''Anholibur        '...,                                           RIVERS
I',,'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI
ARUA                                                                         KOTIDO                                   .    FALLS
ToAs_;'.  \,GUEU   '. ', Atox .. R                                                       FERRIES
!  ,1 _ : -\xx - x, -- . _.dilonk , )  J                                                                                          PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
ZAIRE /       -kolp_NEBI_  <ke_ s                                                     \                                MOROTO             _           PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
6 L           Las  ;                                         UNSURFACED ROADS
T.505  RC.Qmoon                                                                                                                     RAILROADS
-2-                                          * '      i      >           ,S tXf   ,APAC Pf-- \            -             @   '        soLietukh>  \ A                                                   2'_
Jx /                                                                                                                  SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
>1'>. 7'  / PMSINDk,~~~~~~~-,,.  Stossnd ~~~~~n  ~ ~   ROTIo'T.Kox                                    DISTRICT CAPITALS
7%                   ,wempeng~ Nsse/                                -UMI                       2        .,<    /         0r      t > '. ) *  N ATION AL CAPITAL
-   ~          ~~~                                ~~~-~~~~L                             -  .1L ~  m
v ,/R                                                                                                      - HOIMA., -C ---  >  -  s re 'n   xxtis  A-   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
N,/  ..., s.1oke                                                                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
f   x fOSr   {,    ^3, is          '              )        LL>oLer    t ~<-~_   SSK9sAffE  z        ToEndoaSs    -'-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I                            ___t_  llL     \        LUWERO  MbRBOMoe                                             * ' Distrct names co nci-de with D,itricf Capitols, wih, one
LUWERO   Mbu                                                         ecption. Fort Portal is the Distrct Capital of Koiborole District
BU- D4BUGYO
'ot(yuiiso   '<p   N M MUENDE                                                                 tO'o'sKLMStO05                                 0          150
MILES                00                 100
*   K embenrss                                              Kate  "I A             boos L                     7 fi yb fl 4  >  <flt-  KENYA
toxi,nnn&   WSobs,,                                                                                                V                                              S.'' ,1N,,^>,' ', ,'.,,,_,/ ( -- -   ' 
Iz-,        u,                                                     MASAKANG-g'cALAfALA
-.Ltso-n               Ox.x    Og7
Ed-Ordj -
S      USHENYIx nef
sRUKUNGIRI Pe2'C-          >               . RAKAI                           LAE  VICTORIA                                                                           .
l Ke>ndG L  -NTUNGAMO        S                                            L
r  jL.-tt  gTorw/XxhE     ImpJrt en; kpGn t                     TANZANIA                               -                                  
h th Boyo  he B-k
rt   -oRWANDA           o oths ma don   not                    TN       N                            _ _                                                  t
: 302' -d.-                         Of    h                                                               34h'
OCTOBER 1994









I MAC,ING
Repc!rt Nc: !       f1 12 59
Type: JTFC



