Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
eC4Z 9q6l-ua-
Report No. 7203-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
June 24, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This do_ment bas a resticted disrbo and may be used by    *entu only In the perfonmance of
ther omcial dus Its contents may not othenwise be dOSd woot Wodd Bank uoizao



UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =    Uganda Shillings (USh) 60.001
USh 1.00            =    US$0.0117
SDR 1.00            =    US$1.38
US$ 1.00            =    SDR0.72
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1     =     June 30
This report is based on the findings of a combined preparation and appraisal
mission in January and February 1988. comprising of Mr. John Evans, Dr.
Vulimiri Jagdish. Dr. David Sebina, Mr. Frederick Walker. Mrs. Ishrat Husain
and Ms. Beatrice Bashore. Drs. Samuel Adeniyi-Jones. Peter Fesan (WHO) and
Joe Kasonde (WHO) and Messrs. Edward Echeverria. Joannes Jilch. Norbert
Kerschbaum. P. C. Mohan and Pieter Van Dijk took part in the mission as
consultants.
1    After currency reform and exchange rate adjustments of May 15.
1987.
2    At April 30. 1988



FOR OFFICIL I   ONLY
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1985 unle s otherwise indicated)
Total Land Area                              236.000 sq.ka
Population                                   15,159.00Q (1986)
Population Density                           64 per km
Rural Population as a Proportion
of Total Population                     93Z
Crude Birth Rate                             50/1000 population
Crude Death Rate                             17/1000 population
Rate of Population Growth                    2.8%
Infant Mortality Rate                        120/200 per 1000 live births
GNP per capita (US$)                         230 (1988)
Halth:
Population per Physician                     21,300
Population per Nurse                          1,900
Population per Hospital Bed                   7,600
Government Expenditure oan Ministry
of Health as percentage of GDP          2.12
This document has a rsddistributionand may be ued by repients only in the pfonance
of their oMca dutel Its contents may not otherwi be dbscld wihout Wodd Bank authorlztL|



UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP            AIDS Control Program
AIDS           Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
AMREF          African Medical Research Foundation
BCG            Bacille de Calmette et Guerin (TB Test)
CBD            Community-Based Distribution
CMS            Central Medical Stores
CSSD           Central Sterile Supplies Department
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DMO            District Medical Officer
DMS            Director of Medical Services
DPT            Diphtheria. Pertussis and Tetanus
EDF            European Development Fund
EPI            Expanded Program on Immunization
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GPA            Global Program on AIDS
GOU            Government of Uganda
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
KAP            Knowledge. Attitudes and Practices
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
J4HUD          Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
MIB            Ministry of Information and Broadcasting
MLG            Ministry of Local Government
MOP            Ministry of Finance
MOH            Ministry of Health
NGO            Non-Government Organization
NORAD          Norwegian Aid Agency
N1RM           National Resistance Movement
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
ORS            Oral Rehydration Salts
PHC            Prim.ary Health Care
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PS             Permanent Secretary
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SOB            Statement of Expenditures
STD            Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNDP           United Nations Development Prograw
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
UNIDO          United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
WHO            World Health Organization



UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Definitions
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate:    The percentage of married women of
reproductive age who are using (or whose
husbands are using) a modern method of
contraception at any given point in time.
Crude Birth Rate:                  The number of births per 1.000 population
in a given year.
Crude Death Rate:                  The number of deaths per 1.000 population
in a given year.
Infant Mortality Rate:             The number of deaths of infants under one
yea. of age in a given year per 1,000
live births in that year.
Life Ezpectancy at Birth:          The average number of years an infant
will live if the current age - specific
mortality trends prevailing at the tine
of birth were to c=ztinuc.
1 - 5 Year Mortality Rate:         The number of deaths of infents between
the ages of one and five years per 1.000
population in a given year.



UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaOe No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMSIR. .................................  i
I. HEALTH SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
In troducth0n Stat.....................................  1
A.  Health Statug ..T.................................. I1
D.   Conclusion: A Plan of Action ....                    14
E.   Needs for External Financing...................... 15
II. THE PROJECT
As             bea                                        15
B.   Design and Objectives......                          16
C.   Detailed ProjectDescription...................... 18
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A*                  ot                                    26
Be  Finac                                 t    4          31
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITS
A.   Status of Project Prepai . .. on  33
B.  Organization sad Managem          enten...... eseeseoseosooe 34
C.  Monitoring. Reporting sad Evaluation. ............  35
D. Procurement                                            36
E*  Diesbursements............*......*. ......ee   .. 39
F .  Accounts and Audit            ..................... 39
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.   Benefits and Justification...........e..on.......  40
Be        R CE.                                           42
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECONNATONMHENDATI....*.O N...  42



TABLES IN TEXT
1.   Project Cost by Expenditure Category.............. 28
2.   Project Costs by Financing Source................ 30
3.   Proposed Project Financing ..................... 32
4.   Procurement Table.............................. 37
ANNEXES
1.   Statistical Annex............................... 46
2.   Project Objectives and Activities by
Responsible Institution......4 ................... 51
3.   Documents Available in Project File............... 54
4.   Project Costs and Schedules.......................   56
5.   External Donor Activities........................ 61
6.   Community Initiatives ..     .. ................. 64
7.   List of Hospitals to be Rehabilitated .............    65
8.   Guidelines for ICB and LCB........................ 66
CHART
1.   Current Organization of the Ministry of Health.... 71
MAP IBRD 20861 - Uganda - Hospital Rehabilitation and
Construction



UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:           The Republic of Uganda
Amount:              SDR 38.0 million (US$52.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA Terms with 40-year maturity
Project             The proposed project has three main objectives:
Objectives           (a) to rehabilitate a selected number located
and Description:    hospitals and health centers; (b) to promote health
status by strengthening preventive health programs; and
(c) to ensure the long-term sustainability and viability
of the health care delivery systems. Regarding the
rehabilitation program, the project would carry out
essential rehabilitation activities at nine hospitals
and thirty rural health centers including the national
referral hospital so that key services. water and
electrical supplies and sewage systems. are
reestablished. It would also provide essential
equipment and upgrade staff quarters. The project would
also finance the construction of a hospital in Rakai
district, a district which is reported to have a
substantial number of Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS) cases. Regarding health education the
project would finance a multi-disciplinary health
education program using a wide variety of media, support
to the Health Education Division of the Hinistry of
Health (MOH), and studies to evaluate the effectiveness
of the health education program. The project would also
provide for the development of programs in counselling
and patient manageurent for AIDS-infected people and
their families. Regarding long-term sustainability, the
project would develop skills and capabilities in
planning, monitoring and evaluation for the MOR.
strengthen management capability in the health sector
(both in MOH and in hospitals) and study alternative
schemes for financing the health sector. The project
would also provide support to local Non-Government
Organisations (NGOs), which have generally re-
established themselves well.



-il-
Risks:              The project faces three main risks.  The first relates
to the implementation capacity of the MO which is
understaffed and organizationally and managerially weak.
The project therefore provides systematic support to the
KOH and structures the implementation program so as to
avoid over eztending the staff of the HE. The second
risk relates to the financial sustainability of the
project. The entablisbhent of hospital and health
centers management boards. the emergene of local self-
help programs to saintain and expand facilities, and of
the Resistance Committees as strong cmunity forces
suggest that complementary financing methods to be
tested under the project are likely to be found to
alleviate this risk. The third relates to low levels of
staff motivation, which pezmeate the health services.
Low pay. poor working conditions, and lack of drugs and
supplies are the basic causes. The project. through
improved management system. better working conditions
and the involvement of local communities in supporting
and financing health care delivery systens should
alleviate this problem.



I.   UKALTE SEMCOR STATtS AND I851=5
Introduction
1.01      Modern health services were introduced to Uganda around
1897 when missionaries began working amongst the African population.
From the early 1960s until the early 1970s the Government of Uganda
(GOU) developed its health service into one of Africa's most
effective and efficient. The political turmoil and civil strife of
the past two decades has resulted in a near total collapse of the
health sector. Health facilities have been destroyed and equipment
and supplies looted. Staff were oftel! unpaid for long periods and
the supply of drugs became very irregular. As a result the health
status of Ugandans. particularly women and children, has
deteriorated dramatically. Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and
private practitioners. though subject to the same difficult
environment, were nevertheless able to maintain a reasonable
provision of services in the areas where they are located. With the
establishment of the National Resistance Movement (NRM) Government
in 1986. peace has returned to much of the country. The Government
is now faced with the formidable task of providing its people with
health services at a time when there is a resmzrgence of diseases of
public health importance and in spite of a severe economic crisis.
A. Health Status
1.02      Data on mortality and morbidity are extremely poor and
limited. The epidemiological reporting system broke down during the
1970. and has yet to be reestablished. It is therefore difficult to
undertake an epidemiological analysis of the health status of
Ugandans. Assessment of mortality and morbidity is based upon
limited information from Government. NGOs. reports of other agencies
and observations of health workers.
1.03      The limited evidence available points to a deterioration
of health status over the past 20 years. The 1969 census estimated
a crude death rate of 19 per 1.000 population and an infant
mortality rate of 120 per 1.000 live births, reflecting a steady
decline in mortality rates over the previous decades. The loss of
the 1980 census data and the breakdown of the health-reporting
system makes it difficult to estimate trends. While a further
decline in mortality rates in the early 1970s is plausible, most
health observers believe that these levelled off by the late 1970s
and then began to increase with the deterioration in health
services. Some reports suggest that the infant mortality rate is
now between 12U-200/1.000 live births and that the maternal
mortality rate is more than 5 per 1.000 pregnancies. Until 1969 the
level of mortality approximated that of other East African



-2-
countries. At present the level of mortality in Uganda is
significantly higher than in Kenya. Tanzania and Zimbabwe.
1.04      TI- leading causes of mortality for all ages. according to
a 1981 World Health Organisation (WHO) survey were: measles (24%).
respiratory tract infections (17%). gastroenteritis (11%). anemia
(6%) and malaria (5%) (Annex I. Table 1). The three leading causes
alone account for 52% of mortality - easily preventable by simple
low-cost preventive measures. Recent data shows that 1-5 year child
mortality has risen as high as 24 and 40 per 1.000 in Karamoja and
Lira districts. respectively.
1.05      The leading causes of mortality amongst children are
measles. gastroenteritis, malaria and respiratory tract infections.
Health workers observe that the prevalence of malaria and of
tuberculosis appear to have risen significantly. Malaria prevalence
rates are unknown but hospitals in Kampala report that falciparum
malaria. the most severe type. is common.
1.06      In recent years the Acquired Imuno Deficiency Syndrome
(AIDS), caused by the Human Immuno Deficiency Virus (HIV), has
become a disease of public health significance. Known as "SLIM"
disease in Uganda. AIDS was first diagnosed in Rakai district in
1984. Since then HIV infection has become pandemic in Uganda. A
national sero-prevalence survey is being undertaken by WHO and the
results are expected to be available later this year.
1.07      From smaller surveys and hospital records, the following
preliminary information has been gathered about HIV infection in
Uganda. It must however be stressed that these figures are said to
be based on the Elisa test only (the Elisa test being used in Uganda
is the Welcosyme test. It is said to be 87% sensitive and 95%
specific). Confirmation by Western Blot is not routinely available
in Uganda. Between 15% to 25% of recipients of blood transfusion
are estimated to get HIV infection due to inadequate screening. At
Mulago. the national referral hospital in Kampala, an estimated
2.500 persons are infected annually from contaminated blood. Blood
transfusion services in Kampala are currently operating at one-
fourth of their potential demand. About 25Z of pregnant women
attending Kampala hospitals have tested positive for HIV. It has
been reported that nearly 60% of the population of Rakai dist=ict
has HIV infection. Figures of HIV infection in the armed forces are
difficult to obtain but estimates of between 20Z - 40X infectivity
have been made. HIV infections are spreading throughout the
country. In some hospitals up to 30Z of the beds are occupied by
patients with HIV infection. Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
(STD). particularly gonorrhea. appear to be on the increase.



-3-
B. Sector Status
Healtb Facilities
1.08      Uganda's health facilities consist of hospitals. health
centers, dispensaries-cum-maternities. maternities. dispensaries.
sub-dispensaries and first aid posts. There are two National
Referral Hospitals. six regional hospitals. 71 rural and district
hospitals. 107 health centers. 89 dispensaries-cum-maternities. 40
maternities. 82 dispensaries. 366 sub-dispensaries and 163 first aid
posts. About 30% of the larger facilities. particularly in rural
areas, are operated by missions. Both MOH and Mission facilities
were damaged and looted during the years of turmoil with the MOH
facilities bearing the brunt of the damage. Because of staff
motivation (better salaries and benefits) and support from external
sources. Mission facilities have managed to rehabilitate themselves
and provide services of reasonable quality again. On the other
hand. MOH facilities have had no support for rehabilitation, pay low
salaries to staff. are poorly managed and have not been able to
become effective again.
1.09      In virtually all MOH facilities the following are the
major constraints:
(i)  low staff morale due to poor working conditions, low
levels of remuneration and inadequate housing;
(ii) boiler rooms, kitchens, laundries and central
sterilization departments non-operational due to lack of
equipment, spare parts and fuel and often without water
and electricity;
(iii) lack of laboratory equipment, reagents and supplies
resulting in a total lack of diagnostic testing;
(iv) lack of sterilization techniques leading to cross
infection in wards through needles, syringes, and surgical
equipment;
(v) lack of cross matching ability of equipment and poor
refrigeration. resulting in mismatched or infected blood
transfusions; and,
(vi)  badly damaged beds and mattresses and a lack of drugs and
supplies.
1.10      Equally important is the virtual lack of management of
health facilities. Support systems are lacking or have broken down.
Consequently pilferage is high and the running of f&cilities is
inefficient. Due to poor remuneration and lack of housing, staff



-4-
motivation is poor. As a result staff do not do their job and it is
difficult, if not impossible. to maintain discipline and efficiency.
During negotiations. Government agreed that during the
rehabilitation of each facility under the project. a manpower
analysis and management study would be carried out by the Government
so as to ensure that management improvement and manpower standards
would be introduced and go hand in hand with physical
rehabilitation. Establishment of staffing standards. elimination of
redundant positions and workers and redeployment of staff would be
finalized by the time of completion of the civil works at each
facility (para. 6.02(i)).
Health Ifrtgams
1.11      Ezpanded Program on Immunization (EPI). Like all other
health programs in Uganda. such as malaria control and eradication.
the EPI has broken down since the late 1970s. BCG immunizations,
for example. which covered 702 of the target population in 1971 had
fallen to less than 52 by 1984. DPT and polio coverage in 1984 was
less than 32 of the target population. Lack of transport. complete
breakdown of the cold chain and ineffective vaccines (loss of
potency due to imperfect refrigeration) have been the leading causes
of poor coverage. The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) has
been providing substantial resources to revitalize the immunization
program. In 1988 an estimated US$2.6 million will be provided for
this purpose. Total UNICEF inputs from 1985-1990 are expected to be
US$10.5 million. In 22 districts where the program is being fully
implemented. BCG coverage has now reached 702 and for other antigens
402. Coverage in the other 11 districts has not yet begun due to
poor security conditions (in eight districts) and physical
inaccessibility (in three districts).
1.12      Maternal and Child Health (MCH). Between 1960 and 1970
Uganda pioneered many low-cost interventions such as growth
monitoring and nutrition rehabilitation. These activities were
gradually abandoned as the political and security situation became
worse. At present maternal health services are totally inadequate
and maternal mortality is rising. Few health facilities provide
family planning. Management of MCH programs at the district level
and supervision of MCH activities by health workers is non-existent.
Under-fives' health clinics are being reintroduced in health
facilities but the infant mortality and 1-5 mortality rates are
still high.
1.13      Health Education.  Few health education activities are
undertaken by the MOH. A Health Education Division exists in the
NOR but has been given meager resources to develop health education
programs. Radio may reach up to 152 of the population. television
coverage is less than 1% and the largest newspaper circulation is
15,000. Mass media coverage could be significantly increased



-5-
through relatively small but highly targeted investments. In
addition, the existence in districts of a large number of
organizations such as Resistance Councils. religious groups. women's
groups and cooperatives provide great opportunities for developing
information programs. UNICEF is launching a program to train
district health educators. The contribution of these educators will
be critical in developing health education activities at the
district level.
1.14      In light of the current weakness of the Health Education
Division there has been a tendency in some programs to plan separate
education activities for specific diseases and a real danger ezists
that vertical programs may be established causing unnecessary
duplication and waste. While such an approach could have short-term
benefits. it will have major detrimental effects on the Health
Education Division in the medium and long term. MOH have r Efirmed
that the Health Education Division has overall responsibility for
health education activities.
1.15      Special Program for AIDS.  Recognizing the need to control
the growing AIDS epidemic, the Government of Uganda. in 1986.
established a National Committee for the Prevention of AIDS. An
AIDS Control Program (ACP) was established in February 1987 with WHO
assistance. A donors' meeting was held in May 1987 and pledges for
US$12.0 million over a five-year period were obtained. Tm addition,
UNICEF made a commitment to raise US$8.0 million over five years to
expand their own program of assistance in the field of health
education. For the first year approximately US$6.0 million were
pledged but only about US$3.8 million had been received by December
1987.
1.16      The ACP is headed by an Assistant Director of Medical
Services who is directly accountable to the Assistant Director of
Medical Services (Communicable Diseases and Public Health).
Administrative matters are handled by an Administrator, while
technical matters are the responsibility of a Chief Technical
Officer. The Chief Technical Officer. a position that is still
vacant. is responsible for program design. management. information,
education and communication (IEC), surveillance and laboratory and
blood transfusion services. In view of the shortage of qualified
Ugandan officials, WHO has made available a number of expatriate
professionals to assist the Assistant Director in running the
program.
1.17      The ACP has started some IEC activities and a number of
posters, stickers and badges have been made and distributed. A
comprehensive IEC program has not been initiated. Coordination with
the MOH's Health Education Division has been minimal and there is a
real danger that the IEC efforts of the ACP could become a vertical
activity.   Consistent with the principle that henceforth all health
education programs and activities would come under the Health



-6-
Education Division (para. 1.14), it has now been decided that the
Health Education Division will develop and implement AIDS health
education activities.
1.18      Laboratory. sero epidemiological and surveillance
activities of the ACP are under various stages of implementation. A
national sero survey has been initiated and a surveillance system
has now been introduced into 50% of all hospitals. Screening
facilities at blood banks have been introduced into 15 hospitals
only out of a possible 79. Plastic gloves are not available in
medical facilities and the rural areas, and neither are condoms
available in rural areas. Confirmation of the Elisa test by Western
Blot is very limited. Though there has been considerable progress
in the development of the ACP. substantial gaps remain which need to
be addressed urgently. These include a comprehensive health
education system. delivery of "safe" blood at all hospitals, supply
of gloves to maternity units, prevention of infection in health
facilities through contaminated needles, and clinical management of
patients in hospitals, including counselling of patients and their
families.
Drug Supply
1.19      The total drug requirements for the country as a whole are
estimated at US$13.0 million per year by the Central Medical Stores
(CMS). Of this requirement only 10-20X of drugs, worth between
US$1.3 - US$2.6 million have been made available during the last
three years from government resources. The Danish Red Cross
provides additional drugs to the value of US$6.0 million. The CMS
is responsible for the supply of drugs, which it sells to local
authorities (for health centers and dispensaries) and to missions.
The funds received go to the Treasury and are put in a special fund.
In the case of the hospitals, CMS directly supplies drugs for in-
patients. Since 1985 the Danish International Development Agency
(DANIDA) has entered into an agreement with the Danish Red Cross to
supply drugs for out-patient services at all levels and this
program, at present, serves 700 health facilities. Two hundred kits
of boxes of essential drugs are supplied against a list contained in
a manual prepared by the Red Cross.
1.20      Under the agreement with DANIDA signed in 1985, GOU was to
take over the drug supply over a six-year period, but given the
current shortage of funds in the health sector. DANIDA has eased the
terms of the agreement for the second phase. Under this second
phase, which will run for another three years. the GOU is expected
to contribute 20% in the first year rising to 25% and 30%
respectively in the following two years. Clearly a large funding
gap will still exist even in 1990 unless GOU takes measures to
improve the supply of drugs, develop local manufacturing and recover
its costs. Under-utilization of some government health facilities



-7-
is attributed to the shortage or sporadic availability of drugs.
Under the agreement. staff of the health facilities are trained by
the Danish Red Cross. wLo also monitor and evaluate the use of
drugs.
Manpower
1.21      In 1986 there were 9.205 established posts in the MOH.
MOH surveys of staff in position at that time indicated that there
were about 8,500. The 1985/86 estimates provided for 13.122 staff
in the MOH. Annex 1. Table 2 gives the MOH establishment by cadre
and Annex 1. Table 3 presents a comparison between staff figures in
estimates and MOH establishment figures. Part of the problem
appears to be the recruitment of many staff on temporary terms over
the past two decades. In 1985 there were 2.215 staff on temporary
terms. The majority of these staff have been on temporary terms for
over 5 years and some have been so for over 20 years. Since staff
on temporary terms are not pensionable this situation has had a
negative effect on morale. The situation is now being corrected.
No new staff are being recruited on temporary terms and incumbent
temporary staff are being regularized if they have appropriate
qualifications.
1.22      Establishment of positions has traditionally been the role
of the Ministry of Public Service and Cabinet Affairs in conjunction
with the Ministry of Finance. Figures are set annually at the time
of publication of the Annual Recurrent Estimates and represent the
limit of staffing permitted for each health facility and provide
authorization to recruit up to that limit. The Ministry of Finance
is concerned with overall financial control by budget head, rather
than with exactly what types of staff are working where. It is the
responsibility of the MOH to allocate its establishment to
individual programs. UnfortunaL.ly. control of manpower has been
weak and there are serious geographical differences as well as
recruitment of certain cadres beyond authorized levels (Annex 1.
Table 3). A review of existing manpower and optimal staffing
patterns is urgently required and a staff development and deployment
plan needs to be developed. Government has therefore agreed to
submit to IDA by December 31. 1989 a review of existing manpower and
an optimal health sector staffing plan, together with an
implementation plan (6.02(iv)).
1.23      Training of doctors is undertaken by Makerere University
and is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Training of
nurses, midwives and other health auxiliaries is the responsibility
of the MOH. Missions also train a number of health auxiliaries.
The MOH also offers a number of post-basic courses. The relevance
of these courses to the country's health needs requires further
study and would depend upon completion of the recommended staff



-8-
development and deployment plan (para. 1.22). The medical
curriculum is presently being reviewed with UNICEF assistance to
focus on Child Survival issues.
1.24      Uganda was once a center of excellence for the training of
health personnel in Africa. As a result, many of the more senior
staff still in service are very well trained. However. with the
depressing state of training institutions (physical facilities are
run down. there are virtually no teaching materials or visual aids.
and the hostels are in poor condition) it is likely that the quality
of recent graduates would have declined considerably. Mission
training facilities are better equipped and could train some staff
needed by the MOH.
1.25      Figures on attrition of staff are not available.  These
figures would anyway be of limited value because of the extreme
conditions of the past several years. However, staff motivation is
low because of poor working conditions, conditions of employment and
the lack of career structures. In addition to the problems of
temporary staff, permanent staff often function in acting capacities
and this has prevented promotion. Because of these factors
performance standards are low.
Organization and Management of the Sector
1.26      A number of organizations are responsible for the
provision of health services.  The MOH is responsible for provision
of health services from the district hospital and above while the
Ministry of Local Government (MLG) is responsible for the provision
of peripheral health services. The latter include school health
services. maternal and child health services, rural ambulance
services. health education and the control of communicable diseases.
In addition missions. private practitioners and traditional
practitioners all operate independently to provide health services.
The present organizational structure of the MOH (Chart 1) is a
legacy of the past, when MOH was mainly concerned with the
management of curative institutions. Under the present organization
the Permanent Secretary has overall responsibility for
administration of the MOB. Reporting to the Permanent Secretary are
the technical and administrative branches of the Ministry. The
technical branch is headed by the Director of Medical Services
(DMS). The DMS has two Deputy Directors and nine Assistant
Directors. Two undersecretaries. one for finance and establishment
and the other for planning and administration are responsible for
administration of the MOH (Chart 1).
1.27      In practice there has been considerable confusion between
the roles of the Permanent Secretary and the DMS. There is a lack
of understanding in the MOH about the functions of each department



-9-
and matters requiring the attention of the DMS have often been sent
to the Permanent Secretary who in turn has redirected them. As a
result there often are delays. Furthermore, the DMS is often
contacted directly by Assistant Directors and others because of the
lack of a deputy. An inordinate amount of the DMS' time is spent on
matters which ought to be dealt with at a lower level. These
matters are further compounded by weak administration throughout the
MOR and by the lack of adequately qualified staff.
1.28      At the regional level (i.e.. a group of districts) a team
composed of a Regional Medical Officer. a Senior Medical Officer. a
Senior Health Inspector, a Principal Health Inspector, a Health
Educator and a Senior Dispenser, as an Inspector of Drugs, has been
posted since 1979. The regional teams. whose function are
coordination of district. urban and hospital services have never
been effective due to lack of support or funds. and imprecise
allocation of responsibilities or authority.
1.29      At the district level there is a dual responsibility for
health services between the MOH and MLG which has led to
considerable confusion. In particular. referral from facilities run
by MLG to facilities run by MOH and vice-versa is non-existent. The
district teams, which consist in principle of the District Medical
Officer (DMO). Medical Superintendent (MS) and the medical officer
of health are not operational in all districts. The few districts
with teams are hampered by lack of support and funds. Furthermore
it is not clear to whom the teams are accountable and through which
channels they should report. In addition the complex arrangements
between the PS and the DMS at Headquarters are mirrored at district
levels between the DMO and MS. During negotiations, it was agreed
that by December 31, 1989, the MOR would submit a proposal for the
development of a referral system and implementation plan both to be
satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.02(v)).
1.30      To overcome these institutional problems the Government
requested a Health Policy Review Commission, appointed in 1986 (see
para. 1.37). to review the organization and management of the health
care delivery system. The Commission's main recommendations in that
area are:
(i)  the MOH should be restructured so that three Deputy
Directors of Medical Services would assist the DMS:
(ii)  the functions of planning and manpower development should
be transferred from the Office of the Minister to the
Director of Medical Services;
(iii)  the functions of the MOH and its statutory powers should
be consolidated into seven areas;



-10-
(iv)  four fully staffed regional teams should be established
with adequate support and funds and the role of the
regional teams should be defined so as to allow them to
monitor and supervise district and hospital activities;
(v) district health teams should be established;
(vi)  decentralization of the health system should be
accompanied by adequate allocation of manpower. finance.
supplies and transport; and
(vii) a National Health Advisory Council to advise the Minister
of Health on policies and to promote intersectoral
coordination should be established with membership of key
government ministries. NGOs and the public.
1.31      The organization and management recommendations of the
Health Policy Review Commission provide a useful framework to
undertake more detailed management reviews. and to subsequently
introduce appropriate changes. During negotiations. it was agreed
that MOH would produce by December 31. 1988 a timetable for
implementation of mutually agreeable recommendations deriving from
the Health Policy Review Commission Report regarding the
organization and management of the health system (para. 6.02(vi)).
Health Financing
1.32      Total health expenditures (public and private) in 1986/87
are estimated to have been US$73 million or about 2.1% of GDP. This
is US$55 million less than the estimated expenditure on health in
1982. Public sector expenditures on health in 1986/87 amounted to
3.8% of total government expenditures. In fiscal year 1982 these
expenditures amounted to 4.1%. Development expenditures fluctuate
more than recurrent expenditures. reflecting the grim economic
situation of the country. Approved estimates do not ensure
availability of funds and in 1986/87. despite inflation of over
100%. actual expenditure amounted to only 77% of approved estimates.
The percentage of the recurrent budget spent on salaries is
extremely high. namely 98.4% of funds allocated to regional and
district health services and 54% of funds allocated to hospitals.
This undermines the provision of meaningful care. Annex I. Table 4
presents estimates of Total Public Expenditure on Health Care
1986/87.
1.33      Annex I. Table 5 presents Trends in MOH Health
Expenditures from 1972 to 1988. Particularly striking is the
continued underfunding of government recurrent expenditures. The
resulting lack of funds for supplies. including drugs. and for
maintenance has substantially reduced efficiency; as a result



-11-
utilization of government health facilities has declined. Estimated
expenditures for hospitals have decreased from 33.9Z in the 1985/86
MOH budget to 27.5% in 1986/87 and to 21.42 in the 1987/88 budget.
1.34      Regarding the provision of peripheral health services
(health centers and below) which are the responsibility of rural and
urban authorities under the Ministry of Local Government (MLG).
local authorities are expected to raise funds locally from a
graduated tax. market dues. fees and licenses. They also receive
block grants from MLG. At one time local authorities were able to
meet all the financial costs of the health services they were
responsible for. Currently. however. most local authorities are
unable to meet their recurrent expenditures. and the MOH has been
providing subsidies to local authorities for health services. There
have been no MLG funds to build new health facilities. but some
primary health facilities have been built or rehabilitated by
Donors.
1.35      While Uganda has had a tradition of free health services
in the public sector. Mission and private facilities have charged
for services. It is estimated that 80% of their recurrent budget
revenue comes from patient fees. Not surprisingly. and as in many
other countries. government facilities are in poor shape. have few
drugs or supplies. and are underutilized. whereas Mission and
private facilities provide better quality services. have drugs and
supplies and are heavily utilized. Since it is no longer feasible
for the Government. both central Government and MLG. to finance
public health services by itself. it needs to consider ways to
supplement public funding including options such as health
insurance. cost recovery including revolving drug funds and other
methods of direct community financing for health.  It should also
recognize that improvement in quality is an essential prerequisite
for the introduction of cost recovery. In addition ways to improve
efficiency need to be examined concurrently. including various
methods of oversight. budgeting as well as improving staff morale
through subsidization of health workers. transport and the provision
of meals (paras. 2.25 and 2.27). During the mid-term review of
project implementation (para. 4.07) there will be a review of health
sector financing and recurrent cost financing to ensure that
Government is providing sufficient funds to sustain the health
service (para. 6.02(iii)).
C.  Promising Trends
Health Plans and Policies
1.36      Following independence in 1962 the Government adopted
pragmatic health policies which supported the development of rural
and urban health services. Preventive health programs were



-12-
emphasized.  As a result by the early 1970s Uganda had one of the
most outstanding health services in Africa. However with the civil
strife and turmoil of the 1970s health services rapidly
deteriorated. Physical destruction of facilities. lack of supplies
and salaries and a rapidly deteriorating economy led to an exodus of
trained personnel. Recognizing the rapid decline in health services
the Government appointed a Commission of Inquiry into the Medical
Services of Uganda. This Commission submitted its report in 1977.
Though its recommendations were accepted, further political
instability resulted in their non-implementation through neglect.
In the ensuing years other plans were drawn up such as the Recovery
Program for 1982-84 and the National Plan of Action on Primary
Health Care. However, none of these programs could be fully
implemented.
1.37      With the establishment of the NRM Government in 1986 a
Health Policy Review Commission was established. Its report was
submitted to the Government towards the end of 1987. The
Commission's major policy recommendations include:
'i) decentralization of services to be the cornerstone of the
Government's health policy;
(ii) local and urban authorities to be responsible again for
peripheral health care while the Ministry of Health (MOH)
be responsible for health services at the district level
and above and for the development and implementation of
the country's health policy;
(iii) the Mulago hospital to be made autonomous;
(iv) all hospitals to have Hospital Advisory Committees;
(v) regional medical officers with a more clearly defined
role, to be field based and not attached to hospitals in
order to strengthen regional management of health
services;
(vi) district medical officers to be appointed and have
authority, financial control and accountability for the
health services provided in the districts;
(vii) consideration to be given to the introduction of user
charges at all hospitals and to the introduction of a
health insurance scheme for government servants;
(viii) the budgeting process of the MOH to be strengthened and
technical staff to be trained (i.e. department heads) in
budgeting; and



-13-
(ix) the Government to support staff development by
establishing a Center for Continuing Education in the MOH.
1.38      The recommendations of the Health Policy Review Commission
are generally sound and are currently being reviewed by Government.
1.39       While the Health Policy Review Commission report provides
an excellent framework for the development of a national health
policy, the MOH also needs to have a comprehensive strategy for the
development of the health sector. To that intent, and through the
IDA financed Technical Assistance Credit (Credit 1434-UG) the MOH
engaged the African Medical Research and Education Foundation
(AMREF). a Kenya based international NGO. to undertake a series of
studies which would provide necessary background information in
subsequent project preparation. A complete set of these documents
are in the project file and are listed in Annex 3. The next crucial
step for the MOH is to utilize these studies and to prepare a
national health plan which would identify priority areas in the
health sector. A national health plan would also form the basis of
future IDA assistance. During negotiations. it was agreed that the
MOH would recruit a consultant. whose experience and qualifications
are satisfactory to IDA. to assist the MOH to undertake the
preparation of the National Health Plan. The plan would be
completed no later than December 31, 1988 (para. 6.02(vii)).
Community Initiatives
1.40      There are also promising trends at the community level
where facilities are being rehabilitated with materials financed by
the local people and with the labor provided by skilled workers.
These workers have handled both the rehabilitation of existing
facilities and the construction of small simple new buildings
including kitchens and toilet facilities. At Mulago Hospital,
despite an almost complete lack of facilities. equipment and tools.
maintenance work is going on in a rudimentary fashion on simple
breakdowns and repairs. All these activities are supported by and
funded by the local communities.
Other Positive Factors
1.41      As mentioned above. NGO and missionary hospitals, which
have continued to function, provide a potential basis to draw upon
to rebuild administrative systems and staff training for the public
sector. In addition it was clear that staff in government hospitals
continued to provide services part-time, particularly when drugs
were available. Furthermore at the level of particular hospital
facilities, a number of initiatives could be observed to improve
services, including the organization of Governing Boards both to
oversee the operations of the hospital and to generate some



-14-
financial support. Finally the Government had already provided for
an autonomous managerial and financial structure for Mulago hospital
as recommended by the Health Policy Review Commission (para. 1.37).
This would hopefully set a precedent for similar measures at
district level. Annex 6 gives examples of some community
initiatives.
D. Conclusion: A Plan of Action
1.42      Rising death rates. breakdown of the health system, a
resurgence of diseases such as measles and malaria. and the rapidly
growing AIDS epidemic all point to the health crisis that is rapidly
developing in Uganda. Nevertheless there are also elements of hope
upon which Government could build a revitalization strategy for the
sector (paras. 1.36-1.41). Such a strategy would require actions to
deal with both immediate problems and longer term challenges. To
address the immediate needs of the health sector. urgent action is
required to provide drugs, equipment, and reconstruct damaged health
facilities. At the same time it must be recognized that such
efforts would have little permanent impact unless the complex
interrelated and fundamental longer term issues facing the health
sector are addressed simultaneously. Such longer term issues
include planning and progrsaming, financing. manpower development.
and management strengthening.
1.43      Planning and Programming.  The Government of Uganda has
made an excellent start in the development of a national health
policy on the basis of the recommendations of the Health Policy
Review Commission it had appointed. Nevertheless. it still lacks a
comprehensive strategy for the development of the sector (para.
1.39). The development of a national health plan to set out
priorities within a framework of affordability and replicability is
therefore urgently required and would be expected by December 31.
1988. Included in the plan should be an indication of which health
programs (para. 1.11 to 1.18) to reactivate, and in which order of
priority, together with the outline of an implementation program.
1.44      Financing.  As discussed in paras 1.32 - 1.35 there are
serious shortfalls in the resources available to the public sector.
The development of alternate ways of financing the health sector,
definition of the roles of NGOs and the private sector, and
identification of ways to improve the efficiency and effectiveness
of the public sector systems are critical. At the same time it will
be necessary to examine ways and means by which the remuneration
(and/or benefits) of public health sector employees can be increased
without adding to the burden of the recurrent budget.
1.45      Manpower Development.  The development of appropriate
manpower for the changing needs of the health sector is another



-15-
critical issue. At present there is substantial maldistribution of
manpower, excessive reliance on temporary staff. lack of career
development opportunities and more recently declining quality of
staff (para 1.21 to 1.25). As part of the health plan Government
has agreed to develop programs to transfer excess staff to the
extent practicable from certain categories to categories with less
staff and providing the necessary training for redeployed staff
(paras. 1.10 & 6.02(iv)).
1.46      Management Strengthening.  Management at all levels of the
health system is weak. The Health Policy Review Commission has
identified a number of problem areas at the headquarters, regional
and district levels of the health system. Additionally management
of health facilities needs substantial improvement. Specific
management studies and development of plans to implement the
recommendations are urgently required.
E. Needs for External Financing
1.47      The cost of undertaking the above rehabilitation strategy
of Uganda's health syctem is clearly beyond the Government's
available financial resources and considerable external financing by
the intesnational donor community will be needed.
1.48      At the present time a number of agencies are already
providing assistance to Uganda. These include African Development
Bank. DANIDA, the European Development Fund, the Federal Republic of
Germany. Uganda-Italian Health Cooperation, the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA), the United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
UNICEF, the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), and the World Health Organization (WHO). A short
description of their activities is given in Annex 5. It is expected
that all these agencies will continue their support. In addition.
several other agencies have indicated their interest in becoming
associated with IDA in cofinancing this first project to meet urgent
rehabilitation requirements and to support the longer term overhaul
of the system. Preparation by the Government of a health plan and
strategy would provide a basis for further support to the health
systems by the donor community and for the coordination of such
support. IDA would support such initiatives both financially and
through assistance in donor coordination if so requested.
II.    THE PROJECT
A. General
2.01      The proposed project, the first of a series of health



-16-
projects. has three main objectives: (a) to carry out urgent
physical rehabilitation of selected health care facilities and build
a hospital in Rakai district; (b) to promote health status through
strengthening :rreventive health programs; and (c) to improve the
internal efficiency as well as the long-term effectiveness of health
care delivery. These three objectives will be achieved under the
proposed project through both short-term and long-term measures and
sub-components and through mobilizing the resources of both the
Government and NGOs.
B. Design and Obiectives
2.02      More specifically the project would consi3t of the
following:
Part A:  Rehabilitation a d Construction of Health Facilities.
US$36.9 million'
Objective: to complete the urgent rehabilitation of
a selected number of health care facilities so as to
make them operational again and to build a hospital
in Rakai District. presently unserved but affected by
the highest HIV prevalence in the country.
Activities:
(a) Rehabilitate key areas of Mulago Hospital including
the water supply and sewage system, the elevators.
the laundry, kitchens and Central Sterile Supplies
Department (CSSD). Build an electrical and
maintenance workshop and rehabilitate essential
nurses' and doctors' flats, hostels and quarters.
Repair essential roads and provide security fencing.
(b) Re-equip the Blood Transfusion Center with blood
typing and screening equipment and cold storage
facilities.
(c) Rehabilitate eight district hospitals with emphasis
on water supply. sewage systems. equipment and
furniture.
(d) Rehabilitate some thirty rural health facilities.
(e) Build a hospital of about 100 beds in Rakai district.
1Cost excluding contingencies.



-17-
Part B:    Health Education and Community Activities.
US$10.3  million
Objective: to promote health status by creating
awareness health education programs and providing
health education to all levels of the population.
Activities:
(a)  Health Education
(i)  Expand the use of mass media using radio.
television and newspaper.
(ii)  Train journalists and health educators in mass
media techniques.
(iii)  Hold workshops and arrange training for health
educators and village level workers.
(iv)  Produce health education materials for the
National Adult Literacy Association of Uganda
(an NGO).
'v)  Provide program support to the Health Education
Division of the MOR.
(vi)  Construct lean-to-shelters at 30 rural health
centers.
(vii)  Carry out studies of Knowledge. Attitudes and
Practices (KAP) in response to health education.
(viii)  Provide health education support to the Army.
(ix)  Carry out an interim evaluation of the IEC
program.
(b) Community Activities
(i) Develop a community-based distribution program
for drugs and supplies required for major
preventative programs starting with the
distribution of condoms and oral rehydration
salts (ORS).
(ii)  Develop a program for counselling and patient
management for those with AIDS and complementary
assistance to their families.



-18-
(iii) Development and implementation of a health and
hygiene education program to support a water
supply and sanitation project being considered
by IDA.
Part C:     Strengthening Health Care Delivery.
US$3.5 million
Obiective: to ensure the long-term sustainability
and financial viability of the health care system and
its components, MOH. MLG and NGOs.
Activities:
(a) Strengthen the Health Planning Unit of MOH and carry
out studies.
(b) Strengthen the management capability in MOH.
hospitals and rural health facilities through
management training and development programs.
workshops and study tours.
(c) Identify and review alternative ways of ensuring
adequate financing of the health sector both through
improved planning and budgeting and through coot
sharing with beneficiaries and/or communities.
(d) Provide support for a number of NGO programs and
initiatives.
(e) Provide assistance for project management and to
prepare a second project.
2.03      The project will be implemented over a four-year period.
C. Detailed Project Description
2.04      Part A. To achieve the first objective the proposed
project will contain components concentrating on rehabilitating
health care facilities. The main activities are:
(a) Rehabilitation and Construction of Health Facilities
2.05      Mulago Hospital. a conglomeration of buildings on a 28-
acre site in Kampala has received little or no mainrenance over the
last 15 years. As a result a major rehabilitation program is
necessary to reestablish its facilities and to ensure that it can



-19-
carry out its role as the national referral hospital. The full
scope of works is clearly beyond the current proposed project but
essential priority civil works have been discussed and agreed with
the MOH. The project would: (a) continue the reestablishment of
water supply to the hospital and install/refurbish the sewage
system; (b) rehabilitate the elevators; (c, renovate and reequip the
laundry; (d) renovate and reequip the kitchens; (e) renovate and
reequip the Central Sterile Supplies Department; (f) build and equip
a new electrical and mechanical workshop and provide technical
assistance to train hospital maintenance workers; (g) build security
fencing around key areas to reduce pilferage; (h) provide equipment
and furniture; (i) supply drugs and consumable supplies for four
years;(j) rehabilitate nurses' and doctors' flats, hostels and
quarters so that they have water, electricity, sewage systems and
laundry facilities; (k) repair essential roads and pavings. and (1)
cover the cost of professional fees for architects and quantity
surveyors.
2.06      Although the buildings of the Blood Transfusion Center.
Kampala. are being rehabilitated under a grant from the European
Development Fund (EDF). new equipment to screen. type and store
blood under refrigerated conditions would be provided under the
project. In addition. to reestablish the supply of blood. ne-w donor
facilities would be fitted out and vehicles provided both to
transport collection teams and for blood delivery and collection.
2.07      Eight district hospitals2 would be rehabilitated with the
emphasis again on essential services including water supply and
sewage systems. On the basis of "dilapidation" reports prepared in
1982 and which would be updated, each hospital would be refurbished
and reequipped. The eight district hospitals were selected on the
basis of the following criteria; (a) catcbment area; (b) population
per bed; (c) lack of local NGO facilities; (d) no other donor
activity; and (e) access and security. In addition some 30 rural
health centers located in the areas surrounding the eight selected
district hospitals would be physically rehabilitated and provided
with furniture, equipment and essential vehicles.
2.08      Rakai district, in the southwest is one of four districts
of Uganda which does not have a hospital. The district, which was
created in 1979. now has a population of about 400.000 and the
majority live some 63km from the nearest government hospital in
Masaka. Under the project a new 104 bed hospital would be built at
a site which will ensure that some 75% of the population of the
district will be no more than 30km from the hospital. The new
hospital will be based on an existing design with minor
modifications and would include the provision of staff housing for
key hospital workers and medical staff. The project will support
2    Annex 7 lists the hospitals to be rehabilitated.



-20-
the furnishing and initial provision of supplies and equipment to
the new hospital. Selection of a site acceptable to IDA would be a
condition of disbursement of the credit funds related to the new
Rakai District hospital (para. 6.03(i)).
2.09      Maintenance of hospital equipment and buildings is
essential if the project investments are to be sustained. Under the
project two buildings and maintenance workshops will be established
to provide service to both Mulago Hospital and the district
hospitals. During negotiations, Government agreed to supply IDA
with an acceptable staffing resources plan for each facility to be
financed under the project no later than June 30. 1989 and a similar
staffing resources plan for the workshops no later than December 31,
1989 (6.02(i)).
2.10      Part B.   The second objective will be achieved through a
number of sub-components:
(a) Information. Education and Communication (IEC)
Program
2.11      The project would support (a) the expanded use of mass
media to support better health for the population of the country;
(b) the training of journalists and a selected number of Health
Education Officers in newspaper. radio and television techniques;
(c) workshops for Health Education and Assistant Health Education
Officers together with village level workers in three selected
district; (d) production of health education materials for use by
the National Adult Literacy Association of Uganda (an NGO); (e)
provision of program support equipment to the Health Education
Division of the MOH; (f) construction of 30 covered lean-to-
shelters at the 30 rural health centers being rehabilitated; (g)
research on Knowledge. Attitude and Practices (KAP) of people on
their response -o health messages and health education; (h) health
education for the army; and (i) evaluation of the IEC sub-project
during the third year to enable adjustments to be made if necessary
to increase and improve responsiveness.
2.12      Taking these sub-components in turn: mass media. A weekly
health page would be included in New Vision, the English language
paper of the Government of Uganda. Circulation stands at 15.000
currently for each of the tri-weekly issues with an estimated
readership of 250.000. The project would provide 400 tons per annum
of newsprint which would help the paper to double the circulation on
a daily basis and increase readership to approximately one million.
The newsprint would be sold at cost to the newspaper. Government
has agreed that the proceeds would be used to establish a health
development fund (see paras. 2.28 and 6.02(viii)).  Financial
support would also be given to Munno. the most influential Luguanda
newspaper to publish a weekly health page. The paper published
daily, is reported to have a readership of a quarter of a million.



-21-
An eight-page comic book would be developed. printed and distributed
through the school system reaching some two million schoolchildren.
It would also be distributed in limited numbers to the Ugandan Army.
Picture postcards with selected health themes would be printed by
the Posts and Telecommunications Corporation. In addition health
messages would be carried on the sides of long-distance buses, urban
and rural van-taxis and on the reverse side of lottery tickets and
on the inside covers of school exercise books.  There are an
estimated three million radios in Uganda and 300,000 television
sets. The project will seek to increase the frequency, upgrade the
quality and place health messages on the radio at prime time.  This
will be done by enabling the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting (NIB) to improve its studios and transmitters by
providing equipment and spare parts.  The support to the Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting will comprise; (a) developing
transmitter capability so health messages can reach the whole
country; (b) providing trainnm materials; (c) supporting regional
studios and four mobile cinema vans; and (d) supporting the
Development Broadcasting Program of the MIB. Locally, two short
films would be produced each year to be shown in rural areas;
training: the project would support training for one newspaper
journalist on a one year course, two television/radio journalists
every year and one health educator annually on health issues and
their presentation in the media. This training would be carried out
in an appropriate developing country; worhos: a series of
workshops is planned for 33 Health Educators one for each district)
and for the 66 Assistant Health Educators. During the project pilot
workshops will be held for village-level workers in three districts;
health education materials: the National Adult Literacy Association.
a Ugandan NGO. with 20 literacy centers will be provided with health
training materials using posters and flipcharts on themes developed
each year by the Health Education Division; support to the Health
Education Division: whilst support in manpower is developing well
and the new staffing and organization structure have been agreed.
the division will need basic functional equipment at district,
regional and the central levels. Such support will include tape
recorders, cassette players and battery operated slide projectors
for community level meetings. The project would assist the
reintroduction of district focus programs with health education as a
major component supported by locally oriented non-formal education
programs. documentary health dramas and cartoons aimed at reaching
all sectors of the population; lean-to-shelters: 30 simple lean-to-
shelters will be included in the rehabilitation of the rural health
care centers to be used to pass on health messages to mothers and
out-patients; research: a Knowledge. Attitudes and Practices (KAP)
study will be initiated before the introduction of the enhanced
health education program and followed up with two further studies
during the project; the Army: the Army will develop its own
independent health education program with support from the MOH aimed
primarily at the prevention and control of AIDS and STDs;
evaluation: the evaluation will be tied to a second KAP study.



-22-
2.13      The coordinating role of the Health Education Division of
the MOH in the development of IEC activities is crucial. During
negotiations. Government agreed that by December 31. 1988 it would
appoint a health education coordination committee or similar
mechanism chaired by the Director of Medical Services and including
representatives from other MOH divisions. the Ministry of Education,
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the New Vision and
Munno newspapers (para. 6.02(ix)).
(b) Community-Based Distribution Program
2.14      A major constraint in the delivery of health services is
the lack of knowledge about illnesses and drug supplies to deal with
them in rural areas. The project would therefore support the
development of community-based distribution (CBD) programs which
would make available information and drug supplies to rural
communities. In the first phase the CBD program would supply
condoms and oral rehydration salts to communities. Subsequently,
malarial tablets would be introduced in the CBD program.
2.15      The project would support the renovation of the central
medical stores in Entebbe and construct and equip four new regional
medical stores. With this a distribution system both for
pharmaceuticals and the CBD program would be established. Regional
stores would supply district hospitals from where health centers
would be supplied. CBD volunteers, usually members of the
Resistance Committee. would collect supplies from the health centers
for their respective communities. Two months of short-term
technical assistance would be provided annually. A training program
comprised of national and district level workshops would be held
annually. The project would also supply two vehicles for the CMS.
100 bicycles would be provided for CBD volunteers.
(c) Counselling and Patient Manazement for those with
AIDS
2.16      A vital factor in the control and prevention of AIDS is
the effective counselling of people who test positive for the AIDS
virus. Evidence already exists that patient reaction to a positive
test can vary but changes in behavioral patterns tend to be extreme
ranging from suicide and acute depression to revenge and an
inclination to infect others. Given the relatively long period of
symptom development. AIDS positive patients require continuous
counselling to reinforce behavioral patterns which could reduce the
spread of infection. The project will support workshops at the
national, regional and district hospitals to health service
providers on counselling not just for patients but also their
families. These workshops will aim to cover all 33 districts and
will lay the foundation of a national counselling system.



-23-
2.17      In addition management of terminally ill patients
suffering AIDS-related complications will require health service
providers to be able to identify those symptoms which can be treated
within the patient's home and community and those which require
hospitalization. Contrary to expectations, the extended family
system in Uganda has not been able to absorb the issues and problems
of dealing with AIDS patients and local communities have as yet not
developed supportive attitudes to dealing with terminally ill
patients with AIDS. The project will support the development of
training materials and local technical assistance (possibly
including local NGOs) to organize workshops for health care
providers to deal with these issues.
(d) Health and Hygiene Education
2.18      The project would also support development and
implementation of a health and hygiene education program to support
a water supply and sanitation project being considered by IDA. This
would build upon the training of health inspectors financed under
the water supply and sanitation rehabilitation project (CR 1510-UG)
which is nearing completion. As the details of the program are
still to be worked out, their finalization would be a condition of
disbursement of the funds related to this sub-component (para.
6.03(ii)).
2.19      Part C.  To achieve the third objective the proposed
project will focus on the longer term institutional aspects of the
system as follows:
(a)  Planning. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.20      The Health Planning Unit of MOR will be strengthened in
development planning. monitoring and evaluation skills and
capabilities. The project would provide four months of short-term
overseas technical assistance in health planning techniques, plus
overseas training for a number of members of the Health Planning
Unit on the basis of onc person for three months each year of the
four-year project cycle. In country, a national workshop for health
administration would be held followed by seven regional and ten
district workshops.
2.21      Under the project four studies would be carried out at the
rate of one a year. namely (a) following the collection of manpower
data completed by AMREF, a manpower analysis is now needed to
identify the correct staffing of MOR facilities at all levels and to
identify training and retraining needs. Other studies would cover
(b) the Development of Health Information and Management Systems (c)
the Efficiency and Effectiveness of the Health System. and (d) the
Establishment of Community-Based Distribution Systems for drugs.
condoms and supplies. Annual work plans will be produced based on a
component by component review of progress in the preceding year.



-24-
Finally. a comprehensive mid-term review of progress will take place
no later than December 31. 1990. Government has agreed that the
results of the studies outlined above would be made available to IDA
within six months of their completion for review and comments (pars.
6.02(xi)).
(b) Strengthening Management Capability
2.22      Critical to the long-term success of the project is the
need to strengthen management capability in the health sector and to
improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the health care delivery
system. The project emphasis will be on essentially in-country
training with workshops leading to action-oriented training programs
with implementation of changes in managerial practices as the key
objective. Through technical assistance the project will aim to
provide on-going management training and development during the
four-year life cycle of the project. A long-term experienced
management development specialist supported through the project will
be assigned to the MOH and will be responsible. according to a
strict timetable. for developing analysis of the required skill
mixes. identifying of training needs and preparing a management
development plan for all levels of managers in the health sector.
The management development plan will be supported by short term
consultancies. Given the cost-effectiveness of in-country training
and its direct relation to local needs, only limited, focussed and
structured overseas short-term study tours will be financed for
three senior officials each year for two weeks, to visit other
developing countries where health problems and solutions are
relevant to the abilities of Ugandan staff and to the available
facilities. supplies and drugs.
2.23      Comprehensive management development will be enhanced by a
series of workshops at national. regional and district level on
health facility management and will cover, through some 18
workshops. 600 managers in the health sector. Training and
management development programs will be essentially practical with
trainers drawn from existing experienced managers and workshops will
focus on providing managers with action-oriented plans and programs
for implementation when they return to their health facility. The
results of these action plans and their implementation would be
reviewed periodically to reinforce changes in managerial practices.
2.24      Overseas training, qupported by the project. will provide
for one person each year to attend a three-month course in
management development. In addition one person will be sent to
overseas training for a year in hospital administration for Mulago
Hospital.



-25-
2.25      Government has agreed that Hospital and Health Center
Management Committees will be established for each facility by
December 31. 1989 with a composition and function acceptable to IDA
(para. 6.02(ii)'. The Committees might, for example, be chaired by
the Resistance Committee Chairman with representation of MOH. MLG,
facility administration and prominent community leaders as members.
These Committees would be responsible for the periodic oversight of
the facility as well as assisting in generating additional funding
particularly with respect to facilities rehabilitated under this
project where cost recovery should be introduced once the
rehabilitation is complete (para. 6.02(ii)) thus complementing the
professional and administrative supervision from MOH. Government
has agreed during the mid-term review (para. 4.07) there will be a
detailed examination of the introduction and effectiveness of the
financial plans, resource generation and cost recovery at the
rehabilitated facilities to ensure that such plans and activities
are properly established and appropriately implemented (para.
6.02(ii)).
(c) Alternate schemes for financing the health sector
2.26      Currently the health sector, managed by MOH. provides.
except on an exceptional basis. free medical treatment at the
district hospitals and Mulago Hospital. Financial responsibility
for the primary health centers is vested in MLG. Under the project
short-term technical assistance would be provided to examine the
continued viability of the split for the health care system between
the two ministries and to help design a cost recovery system at all
levels. cost it. and help implement it as facilities are
rehabilitated and reestablished.  Research would also be carried out
on the feasibility of introducing health insurance either on a
community or district basis and of introducing revolving drug funds.
2.27      Other forms of community participation in the support of
local health services would also be studied with the aim of
developing participation in health financing. Informal committees
have been established in some areas but to be successful all these
financing schemes will have to be designed to ensure that the monies
received remain within the health sector and are not remitted to
Treasury. Arrangements will also have to be made to ensure that the
revolving drug fund receives sufficient foreign exchange to be able
to replace drugs and supplies on a regular basis. Program support
will be provided for the start up of these health financing schemes.
During negotiations. it was agreed that the Government would by June
30, 1989. be prepared to allow funds generated through community and
health related financing activities including cost recovery to be
rechanneled to the respective facilities (para. 6.02(x)).
2.28      Under the project the 30 rehabilitated health centers
vould be provided with medical supplies with a value of US$1,000



-26-
each to establish and launch revolving drug funds and a similar sum
to develop community participation schemes to finance health service
delivery. Similar arrangements would be made for a limited number
of NGOs. For the district hospitals supplies valued at US$5.000
would be provided for both the drug fund (U.$2.500) and financing
activities to generate funds for the hospital (US$2.500). For
Nulago Hospital the project would provide supplies valued at
US$10.000 to establish a revolving drug fund. These supplies would
be procured by the MOH in bulk and issued to the health centers
against credit vouchers. Government has agreed to submit to IDA for
approval. proposals for income generating activities. based on
community participation (using the revolving funds) as well as
including accounting mechanisms (para. 6.02(xii)).
2.29      The funds in local currency deriving from the New Vision
for the newsprint provided to introdu.e a health page (para. 2.12)
would be used to establish a health development fund to support
mother and child health care programs through national NGOs.
(d) Support for NGOs
2.30      The NGOs provide essential complementary support to the
government health services. Under the project a national workshop
would be held to establish and define the roles and relationships of
the NGOs and the Government. To that intent a consultant would be
provided for three months to develop and plan the workshop and to
carry out follow-up work. The project would also support the
establishment of a coordinating body for NGO activities in the
health sector and provide funds for new initiatives of the NGOs,
with particular emphasis on the development of women's groups.
Government agreed that each NGO proposal. inclIding its accounting
mechanisms, would be submitted to IDA for review and comment prior
to implementation (para. 6.02(xiii)).
(e) Project Management
2.31      About four staff years of specialist services would be
provided for a project coordinator, and another 12 staff months to
assist in preparation of a follow-up project.
III.    PROJBC? ODSTS AND iINANCING
A. Costs
3.01      Although the project has been designed to be implemented
over a four-year period, it has been costed over a seven-year



-27-
period. to have a disbursement profile corresponding to the standard
profile for Uganda (Annex 4). Total costs of the proposed project
are estimated at USh3.916 million (US$65.5 million equivalent).
Base costs are calculated at US$50.7 million equivalent (100%) and
contingencies at US$14.8 million equivalent (291). Foreign eachange
costs account for US$45.1 million or 692 of total project costs.
Taxes and duties have been excluded in calculating the project
costs. However these are negligible since all items imported
specifically for the project would be exempt from custom duties and
sales taxes. Project costs by expenditure category are summarized
in Table I below. and details are provided in Annex 4. Civil works
account for 38% of base costs; furniture. equipment. vehicles.
supplies and materials for 31X; monitoring for 42; technical
assistance for 7M training for 32; and incremental recurrent costs
(building. equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance) for 17X.



-28-
Table I: PROJECT COSTS.                                           CAGTEGORY
_ ~~~~.2  '?.                        ..i .0.0.
Ziotils                                    s  *
Z Fiedu    late                             I fShnm  ha
LOCal     PFeO1*t    I?.'!  nnha         Costs   Laval  Foirig   Total  EbIw    Cuots
I.  SsU    C*M
A. Cam  3w.                                            229.9%.!          '     4",1091.6   e 0        33  1343,7 15394.7 19,243.?           0     39
*. WQtlES                                                      -   23,155.0   V4e55.0         10       1         -   3!5.3   3I.3         t00      I
C. flE1PM                                               24,60.0   93,400.0   ?3POe.o           30      4    411.6  1t646.6 2f,0.2          00      4
D.  MS                                                   M9M405.0  J19,215.0  157.20.0        7n       S    659,4  19M.2 2,637.6           75      5
E. fag=                                                 M2242,1  612,9.5   644,41.6            95     21    539.5 10,251.0 10,70.5          5     21
Fs 1 Cm    . MISeTM                                            -  19340:0  197$340.0          too       7        - 3,302.2  3302.2        100      7
B.s   HI I II , 1ESE11 N1 t    WLMT    N  MWS 1131      66740.4   *040.4   131,430.3           30      4  1.116.3  1I116.3  22233*6        50      4
IN. Too=                                                5 S20.            -   56,5205           -      2    945,3        -   941,0          -      2
to      A3 ilAIllINe                                           -    19,70155    101705.S      1090               -   313.0   313,0        10o      1
tal  19M    mm31                                          449,04.3 2015,640  2.-W!145,0           32     l3  7,s21,3 34,393.3 41,920.1        02     33
ftmiocl Ctali nciu                                      44,124.2  M2224.?  26749.              e       9    733.4 3,736.4  4,474.7         s3      9
Prim  CaRt1ww1esn                                      211,659.4  123,47?.2   MAM,136.6        37     11  3.55:3 2.066.2 5,641.5           37     It
otal main cStem1I                                         7.28.t2.42.402.743,1097690.5            77    103  11,.5 40,20.352,03.3             77    101
n. UII   CaT
As UTRMS                                               12P240.0   12,240.0   24,430.0          0      1      044;3   24.e   409.6         50      1
t. NA iLi  mi SUF9lES                                 1614340.0  161,340.0   22630.0                 H 'I  2A!9.e 2699.9  5,399,6         i0 1t
C. FU.  OIL  S UULRCMITS                                  679.4   13?251.3   19,931.2         7       1  e5.0   221.3   31I.3             70      1
*. WOME  IPIPIWIAt   IID   NW CK                        9,e32.6 t   0!?02.1   295.2           70      1    143.5   346.4   494.9          70      1
to EUiT  1         1NTUNCE                             2324.    23244.0   46,493.0            50      2    39.e0   39,90   M79            50      2
i.  oiUIlN  mIAnIMio                                   !4p!.    1499e3&2   49,944.0           30      2    535.0   250.7   35.?          30       2
s. F U   llT E lF MIEIU                                22,O09.7    9t467,5    1,1t32          30      1    369.7   153.4   129.1         30       1
Toal P      i      !26,427.5  2'.,229.1   523,614.6                                              4!      17  4?491.S 4.270.9 39762o7         49      17
rIsa coaftemis                                         244.143.0   39,59,9  2920742.9          14      9  4.035.4    45.9  4,731.3        14       9
T*tdD 1103 CUIUEIIl                                       512.570.4  297te1,9    96 39.5          !6     27  3,7.1  4,6.3 13494.             36      27
-                 22*32M             -- ----  -----    ------- --- ----22i
otal  hfE    09t                                           ?41,31.3 2310,49.3 302f9e301.6         76    100 12r013.6 t33,66.2 50,6321         76    1o0
FI ial Wt       rt                                       44,224.2  223t2!4.7  257,49.9         .3       e    71.4  3.7364  4,474.7         33       9
Peite CirdIUUIin                                        4579N.2.3  162,077.1  619.E79.         26      20  7,640.7 2,712.1 10,2.3          26      20
Totl VX Ie? COJ                                          1.2t2!9.3.2 2696.231.7 3,16,90.0         69    129 20412.6 45t117.7 65,530.3         69    129
333332332333  _m,                 323333323   _233333332332                       333 _ 3



-29-
3.02      Project costs have been estimated at April 1988 prices.
Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of the cost of
current Ministry of Housing and Urban Development contracts for
comparable buildings.  Unit costs o  construction for new buildings
are estimated at about US$420 per m (Rakai district hospital).
Furniture and equipment lists have been prepared and are being
reviewed by IDA. Project costs also include provision for a total
of 9 vehicles. 210 months of overseas training. 264 months of long-
term consultants and 42 months of short-term consultants. Local
training costs and operational and maintenance expenses are based on
current government scales and rates.
3.03      Contingency Allowances:  The total project costs include
US$14.8   million equivalent for contingencies.  Physical
contingencies have been included at 15% for civil works and 10% for
vehicles, equipment, furniture, materials and supplies and furniture
maintenance and amount to US$4.5 million equivalent (92 of base
costs). The following price contingencies have been included: (i)
on foreign exchange expenditures. 3% in 1989; 3% in 1990; 4X in
1991; 4X in 1992; 4X in 1993; 4% in 1994; and 4% in 1995; and (ii)
in local cost expenditures. 30% in 1989; 20% in 1990; and 10% every
year thereafter. Price contingencies account for US$10.4 million
equivalent or 20% of base costs plus physical contingencies.
3.04      Foreign Exchange Costs:  The foreign exchange component of
US$45.1 million equivalent is based on estimates of 80% for civil
works; 100% for vehicles; 75% for materials and supplies- 95% for
equipment; 80% for furniture; 100% for overseas training and study
tours. The incremental recurrent costs mainly cover equipment and
building maintenance and vehicle operation and maintenance.
Altogether foreign exchange cost is equivalent to 69% of the total
project cost. The foreign exchange component of the construction
work is high due to the shortage of building materials in the
country. Thus materials will have to be imported. The foreign
exchange component for furnishing and equipment is also high since
at this stage there is no indigenous manufacturing capacity on the
scale required to complete the refurbishing of the hospitals.
3.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table
2.



-30-
Tsabl.--2-t-PREGT--GST&-BY- INACING-SOURCE
I Totel                                    3 Mel
3f'ign  I                                    FOrthn  ha
Locl      forifs      Tital    E..! mg   Costs   Local  frion  T?'.pl  Ef-.eNg   Costs
I. PwEUZTAUI -  CTRUCTION W lf IN FACIUtEs
1.    tUTAUON W NAN FiCITIIS
NAM                                                          325!9.9  946446.1  .7239.0             n       36  51063.4 13#297.3 16C360.7       72     36
2. wIUAneT*t    CF IWAINT F*ClIME3
isTha                                                        156,60.   60,6.0   ?6929.6             ?      25  2,619.3 109(46.3 12.666.2        79     29
3. OWaNme,16N KU I   UCT l-IT.                                  154,M3.7  217r262.1  212t01.3          eo      9    916.2  3,635.9 '5M2.1          to      9
4.1 PU        1  T6  FOCILMT                                     I5457.3   61945.0                    7n       3    262.6  1.906.6  l#3m2          79      3
rTcW  UUU.ITII   IS CStRis  a lENIN FACIIr  a3O0M.? 14.677,354.5 2t2f6,147.4                             7'      n   eM922.1 296069.2 36s90.3        76      n
3. 1BLD  MOtATION CNo U P.          ACTIViTIIE
a. wwwu. imnrua
to    CSNORIC  ION                                             023.5  407,096.1  49P021.6           32      16  1,521.5 64,12.2 943m.          62      16
2. W    IN T NM  f         1TRI!                                15,92.13  44669.2   60572.0            74      2    266.1   747.5 1013.6          74       2
3. CUUWJI S L713 MD KIENTWAM
FOR AM972..0                                                                                         -      0       6.9       -  O 166.9        - 1
4. IEII    30tfg  AT NMA                                         7,544.1   36,544.5   44,066.6         n       1    12U.2   611.5    3.8          a3       I
S-Total  LIN    ATIM  AND CNi  ATlTI                            124,342.4  466e311,   612,654.2          0'   20  2,060.7  3.171.2 10251.9   Q      0      20
C . IPI TE SOWAl Cf fINUI
* EANl SENM                                                   690.0   1. -100.0    n M.e            66      I    11r.5    20.9   136.3          66      t
2. 5PI3T F"- "00                                                30.420.0  X31 00.0   61.20-0          5        2    509. 0   522.1  I* !.1        5        2
i. S          SIIDIN ULr   w rEN  CwAnm                         12,t43.2   420..5.5   54.9267          76      2    20.7   ?15.8   1?.5           7        2
4.flA    S INUIlTM   D EtVLWIM                                  133423.3   SP026.0   71451-3          el       2    24.6   9.0  1-1".6             It      2
*T,t1  _IFESIEL          WAIN CAPEK  mw_                           62,796.5  145,203.5  2906."-0         79       7  1-0!4.0 24296.  3.430.6         70       7
Toal   amn                                                          717,911.3 2,360.369. 1.020.M .S        ?6      00  12.013,6 33.66.2 50.6623        76      0t0
-"scel Cditrws                                                    4414.2  221,264.   267,406-9          n        9    736.4 3.736.4 4.U44.7         a        9
?d6  C     L u          ,                                        457602.3  162077.1  619679.5            26     20  7.60.7 2712.1 lQ3n2.             26     26
t ld UP*BT3 a3                                                    1.219653.2 26923.7 391609.0w O           60    I2V  29.412.6 4511P,? 659530.3        69    U
-             _        1W81,        ----    -----h -



-31-
B. Financing
3.06      Of the total project costs of US$65.5 million. the
Government's contribution would be US$6.5 million (10X). which would
cover US$3.2 million (5.0S) of investment costs and US$3.3 million
(5.0t) of the recurrent costs including contingencies. The
remainder of the investment costs would all be financed from
external sei-rces. Table 3 presents project costs by financing
source. An IDA credit of US$52.5 million is proposed. Sweden has
indicated its willingness to provide US$6.5 million in cofinancing
through IDA. During credit negotiations it was agreed that by
December 1, 1988 the Borrower would submit to the Association the
necessary formal evidence that such financing has been secured for
the project (para. 6.02(xvi)).



-32-
TABLE 3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Total           GOU         IDA/          Percentage
Base Costs                    SIDA              IDA
Expenditure
Categories
1.  Civil Works         19.2          1.8          17.4               90
2.  Vehicles             0.4                        0.4              100
3. Furniture             2.1                        2.1              100
4. Materials/Supplies   2.6                         2.6              100
5.  Equipment           10.8                       10.8              100
6. Technical
Assistance         3.3                        3.3              100
7.  Monitoring,
Research,
Evaluation and
Mass Media         2.3                        2.3               87
8.  Local Training       1.0                        1.0               50
9.  Overseas Training    0.3                        0.3              100
10. Incremental
Recurrent Costs    8.7           3.7          5.0                0
Total
Base Costs        50.7           5.5        45.2                89
Total
Contingencies     14.8           1.0         13.8               93
Total
Project Costs     65.5           6.5         59.0 1/            80
1/ Includes SIDA contribution of US$6.5 million.



-33-
Fina*ial Viability
3.07      Project - Investment- Costa.- The total investment costs of
the project. including contingencies. are calculated at US$52.0
million over a four-year period (see Table 1). Investments in the
health sector have been declining over the past three years due to
the weak economy. The project thus represents a sizeable injection
of capital into a sector starved of financial resources. During the
first two years allocation would rise from US$15.6 million to
US$16.5 million and thereafter falling to US$12.8 million and US$7.1
million in the third and fourth years. Much of these. however. will
be for replacing and not for expanding existing facilities. The
Government contribution of US$3.2 million for counterpart financing
for project investments would be important. but feasible. as the
masimum annual contribution of Government would be US$0.97 million
in the second year or 10% of the estimated investment budget for
1987/88. Given that there are few other major investments in the
health sector. these expenditures are considered reasonable.
3.08      Incrementa-l--Recurrent-Costs.  By the end of the project
period the annual incremental recurrent costs are expected to be
US$2.9 million. Incremental recurrent costs have been kept down by
transferring redundant and over-establishment staff to project
positions and not providing any new positions. Nevertheless. the
annual incremental recurrent costs represent a substantial rise in
the MOH's recurrent budget in the order of 7% of the draft estimates
for 1987/88. Through the development of alternative sources of
financing. it is expected to increase funds available to the health
sector. It is. however, difficult to estimate at this stage the
level of these extra resources. Increased Treasury allocations
would be required to make up the shortfall.
IV.  PROJECT-                              DI,-  RS-M    AM-M1T
A.  Status-of-Projeet--Preparation
4.01      IDA has been working with the Ministry of Health since the
early 1980s when a sector mission carried out a comprehensive review
of the health sector and subsequently the health sector report was
published in 1985.  Stemming from the recommendations of this report
consultants were employed to carry out a series of studies and
preliminary project preparation. The consultants. AMREF completed
the preparation of a wide range of reports covering many of the key
areas of the health sector e.g. health financing, manpower.
information, education and communication. basic training. in
December 1987 and have submitted them to the Government and IDA for
review (Annex 3). Meanwhile preparation of the proposed project



-34-
already drew on much of the information in these reports. This
information was supplemented by a comprehensive preparation and
appraisal mission which visited Uganda in January and February and
focussed on the means to alleviate the current health crisis in
Uganda through prompt and speedy assistance. The mission included
specialists in public health, including AIDS, management and
administration in the health sector, health financing, health
education and facilities rehabilitation. In view of the interest
manifested by cofinanciers, the mission included nor only Bank staff
but also specialists from WHO, Austria and the Natherlands.
4.02      To accelerate completion of the project preparation and
launching of project implementation Government requesced a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US $1.24 million. Prior to approval
of the PPF, with support from other donors, a number of activities
were initiated to ensure that the project is both responsive to the
immediate needs and lays the basis for IDA's long term strategy to
be implemented. As a result, the PPF request was reduced to
US$512,500. PPF supported activities are (a) carrying out initial
preparatory drawings, preparing "dilapidation" reports and
developing bills of quantities for the rehabilitation components so
as to enable a prompt start-up with the civil works soon after
project effectiveness. (b) providing the assistance of a health
planner to develop the government health plan (c) training a
journalist in health education methodologies so that the national
paper can begin carrying health messages soon, (d) providing
essential blood testing and screening equipment and refrigeration
capacity so that the country's blood banking system can be
reestablished with uncontaminated and tested blood, this input will
also ensure that vaccines for the immunization program can be stored
properly and will retain their potency) and (e) organizing a Safe
Motherhood Conference.
4.03      As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit,
the Government will provide IDA with an acceptable timetable for the
completion of the full set of documentation and drawings, site
plans, specifications and bills of quantities (para. 6.01(i)).
B. Organization and Management
4.04      The Permanent Secretary, MOR would have overall
responsibility for coordination of the project. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Planning Unit of the Ministry of
Health would have day-to-day responsibility for implementation of
the project and would monitor the activities of the Health Education
Unit, the organization, administration and management training
programs and the progress of the civil works components. It would
also be responsible for liaison with IDA. In each agency or unit
responsible for a project activity a coordinator would be appointed.
All coordinators would work closely with the PIU in the Planning



-35-
Unit of MOR. To enable overall coordination to be effective, a
Project Coordination Committee will be set-up. chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MOH and comprising of all component
coordinators and senior MOH staff together with representatives of
the Ministries of Justice. Finance. Planning and Economic
Development Local Government Housing and Urban Development (MHUD).3
The Committee would meet every three months to review project
progress and implementation. The secretariat of the Permanent
Secretary. MOH. would be responsible for drafting minutes of every
meeting. initiating follow-up actions and for reviewing progress
reports.
4.05      The project would provide four years of long-term
technical assistance for a Project Coordinator who would be a senior
public health specialist with experience of developing and managing
health programs in Africa and an additional 12 months of short term
technical assistance for project preparation of a second Health
Project. The appointment of a project coordinator whose
qualifications and experience were acceptable to IDA would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (para. 6.01(ii)).
4.06      Responsibility for the civil works component would be
vested in the Project Implementation Unit of the MOH working closely
with MHUD. The rehabilitation of the existing eight district
hospitals would be carried out by two teams working in parallel and
"leap frogging" to the next hospital every 120 to 130 days (the
anticipated time required on average to complete the rehabilitation
program). The hospital in Rakai District would be carried out as
one contract whilst the work at Mulago would be carried out either
on one contract or a series of contracts depending on the bids
received. Work at the primary health care centers would be carried
out by the district hospital rehabilitation teams. Procurement of
furniture, supplies and equipment and the recruitment and management
of consultants would be undertaken by the Health Planning Unit, MOH.
Details of the project objectives and activities by responsible
institution are summarized in Annex 2.
C. Monitoring-Reporting-and Evaluation
4.07      The Permanent Secretary, MOH, would have responsibility
for monitoring the progress of implementation of all project
components. The PIU. Planning Unit MOH. would prepare half yearly
progress reports and would highlight major issues needing
resolution. These reports would be approved by the project
coordination committee (para. 4.02) before submission to IDA and
other donors. The review process would include the identification
3The MHUD have overall responsibility for the construction of
Government facilities.



-36-
of action plans. and the designation of a person responsible for
implementing the action plan. where specific issues require
resolution. Regular coordination meetings of the donor agencies
would be held in Kampala and take place at least twice a year when
the progress report is released. As a basis for monitoring, annual
implementation and work plans would be prepared every year. starting
with FY89. A mid-term review, based thereon, would be undertaken no
later than December 31. 1990 (para. 6.02(xiv)).
4.08      A number of indicators would be utilized to monitor
progress. For the civil works component at Mulago a comprehensive
work plan would be developed for the key rehabilitation components
and monitoring of programs would take place through monthly site
meetings. For the rehabilitation of the district hospitals and
primary health care centers a similar overall work plan would be
developed together with detailed work programs for each
rehabilitation project. A similar system would be developed for the
new hospital in Rakai District.  For the IEC component in the Health
4ducation Unit, the number of health educators trained and posted in
the districts and villages. the number of seminars held and the
production of posters, booklets etc. would be monitored. In
addition, the frequency of health education messages in the
newspapers and on television and radio would be monitored.
D. Procurement
4.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4. The
SIDA contribution of US$6.5 million will be administered by IDA ic-
accordance with IDA regulations.



-37-
TABLE 4s PROCUREMENT TABLE
(USS millions)
Procurement Method                Total
ICB           LCB       Other    N.A.         Cost
Civil Works                22.4          2.5                             24.9
(20.2)        (2.3)                           (22.5)
Vehicles                    0.5                                           0.5
( 0.5)                                        ( 0.5)
Furniture                   2.5          0.2                              2.7
( 2.5)        (0.2)                           ( 2.7)
Materials/Supplies          0.7           0.1                 2.6         3.4
( 0.7)        (0.1)                (2.6)      ( 3.4)
Equipment                  12.3          0.3                             12.6
(12.3)        (0.3)                           (12.6)
Technical                                                     3.5         3.5
Assistance                                                    (3.5)     ( 3.5)
Monitoring, Research,                                         2.9         2.9
Evaluation and                                             (2.7)      ( 2.7)
Mass Media
Local Training                                                1.2         1.2
(0.6)     ( 0.6)
Overseas Training                                             0.3         0.3
(0.3)      (0.3)
Utilities                                                     0.7         0.7
(0.5)      (0.5)
Materials/Supplies                                            8.0         8.0
(6.5)      (6.5)
Fuel, Oil, Lubricants                                         0.4         0.4
(0.3)      (0.3)
All maintenance costs                                         4.4         4.4
(2.9)      (2.9)
TOTAL                      38.4          3.1                 24.0        65.5
(36.2)        (2.9)               (19.9)      (59.0)11
1/ Includes SIDA financing of US$6.5 million.



-38-
4.10      Contracts for civil works. furniture, equipment. vehicles.
imported construction materials and other materials and supplies
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the World Bank Group Guidelines except as
follows:
(a) contracts for the rehabilitation of the eight
district hospitals and the 30 health centers would
either be through international competitive bidding
or through the formation of a project implementation
unit which would manage the contracts on a force
account basis. Other construction contracts for less
thanUS$200.000 would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) up to an aggregate amount
of US$2.500.000. Force account and LCB are
applicable methods of procurement since many of the
works are widely scattered geographically and
contract values are small.
(b) IEC materials and supplies which cannot be grouped
into one single contract (US$0.5 million) but would
cost less than US$50.000 would be procured through
LCB up to an aggregate of US$250,000.
(c) Furniture. equipment and IRC materials and supplies
costing less than US$100.000 would be procured by
prudent shopping. using three quotations. up to a
limit of US$600,000.
(d) Recurrent costs.
Sketch designs. draft tender documents and master lists of
construction and other materials. furniture. equipment and vehicles
indicating proposed grouping and estimates of costs would be
reviewed by IDA. Review of tender evaluation documents prior to
award would be required only for civil works contracts above
US$200,000 equivalent; for equipment. furniture. vehicles.
construction and other materials the limit would be US$100.000
equivalent. Contracts below these limits would be subject to
selective post-award review.
4.11      The Uganda Country Assessment Report dated December 22.
1986. found that LCB procedures were unsatisfactory. An acceptable
LCB procedure should be economic and efficient and generally conform
to the basic principles outlined for LCB in the Bank's guidelines.
such as adequate competition. openness of the procedure and equal
treatment of all bidders, contract award to the lowest evaluated
bidder in accordance with predisclosed criteria. etc. The basic
principles for LCB are outlined in Annex 8 as well as those for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB).



-39-
4.12      For all IDA financed consultants employed for this
project, selection procedures, qualifications. experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
the World Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981).
4.13      Where ICB procedures are used: (a) qualified domestic
manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a marginal
preference of 152 or the existing rate of import duties. whichever
is lower. over the CIF price of competing foreign suppliers. and (b)
qualified domestic building contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7.52 over prices of competing foreign
contractors.
E. Disbursements
4.14      Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit will be on the
basis of:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local
expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
goods. vehicles, equipment. materisls and supplies
and 90% of local expenditures;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local
expenditures for consultant services;
(d) 100% of expenditures for training; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 90X of local
expenditures for NGO support.
4.15      All disbursements will be fully documented except for
force account works. civil works contracts of less than US$50,000
equivalent. other contracts below US$20,000 equivalent and local
training programs, where certified statements of expenditures (SOEs)
will be used. SOEs will be certified by the PIU Coordinator and
supporting documentation retained by the PIU and made available for
scrutiny during the course of project supervision missions and for
annual audits.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.16      Special Account. A foreign exchange Special Account of
US$3.4 million funded by IDA will be established with a commercial
bank through the Bank of Uganda. To the extent possible. IDA's
share of all payments will be made through the Special Account



-40-
except for any exceptionally large item which will be handled under
IDA regular procedures. The Borrower shall submit replenishment
requests on a monthly basis or whenever the Special Account is
diminished by one-third. whichever comes first.
4.17      The PIU would establish and maintain separate accounts for
all expenditures incurred under the project. The records would be
maintained adequately to reflect, in accordance with appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
Auditing would be required on an annual basis for all expenditures
financed under the project with particular attention to those
reimbursed under statements of expenditures and the Special Account.
The annual audit would be undertaken by the Auditor General's office
or by independent auditors. acceptable to IDA and applying
satisfactory auditing procedures. Audits would be submitted to IDA
within six months following the end of each of the Government's
fiscal years (para. 6.03(xv)).
V.   FXOJUCT BIME     . JUSTICATION AU) RS
A.  Benefits and Justification
5.01      The proposed project is based upon an extensive review of
the health sector and identification with the Government of the
major problems which the MOE must address in order to increase the
efficiency of existing services. It takes into account the
dilapidated conditions of the health infrastructure, on the one
hand, and the serious financial and managerial problems faced by the
Government on the other. The project is designed to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of the health system first by
rebuilding health personnel morale and beneficiary trust in its
services through rehabilitation of facilities and the provision of
essential equipment and supplies and second, by addressing planning.
managerial and financial issues. With rehabilitation of health
facilities, strengthening of preventive health programs and the
improvement of quality of care, the opportunity to introduce cost
recovery and health insurance schemes is unique.
5.02      By the end of the project the MOH would have strengthened
a number of key preventive health programs. A multi-sectoral
information strategy coordinated by the Health Educatior Division of
the MOH would have been launched. These activities are expected to
bring health education messages to approximately 12.0 million people
or 80% of the population through multiple mutually reinforcing
channels: about 10.5 million people would be reached through the
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. 1.5 million people through



-41-
the print media, and 1.5 million people through inter-personal
communications in three districts (about 1.5 million people would
thus be reached by several media). The total number of persons
reached would be substantial though of course, the numbers of those
who would apply the message in practice is usually less than the
numbers of those who would obtain knowledge. Nevertheless, if the
IEC programs could result in changes in even 501 of the target
population this would still be an impressive achievement.
5.03      The CBD program is expected to cover aBout half a million
people in 10 districts. This program offers a major opportunity to
provide drugs. condoms and supplies at the village level and is
expected to have an impact on reducing the incidence of HIV
infections, other STDs and diarrheal diseases. Counselling and
patient management for AIDS will provide serv-ces to AIDS patients
and their families.  These activities are expected also to play a
significant role in slowing the spread of HIV infections.
5.04      By the end of the project the MOH would have developed a
national health plan covering all health activities in Uganda so as
to ensure optimal utilization of scarce financial and human
resources and to indicate the areas needing priority attention. The
MOE's Planning Unit would have acquired health planning and
programming capability as well as the capability to manage studies
and gather information to analyze major health problems. Studies in
manpower deployment and development will form the basis of a major
review of the MOH's personnel requirements. Management
strengthening would have short- and long-term benefits. In the
short term, there would be improvements in the management of health
programs. The development of objectives for various units and job
descriptions at each level would strengthen management capability.
Emphasis on the team approach at the regional and district levels,
would ensure better coordination and implementation of ongoing
programs. Improvements in health facility management and
rehabilitation of health facilities would improve effectiveness and
efficiency and would result in better utilization of available
resources, and provide an environment favorable to the introduction
of certain forms of cost sharing. some of which will actually be
launched thus opening the way for MOH to raise additional resources
for the health sector without further burdening the government
budget.
5.05      Rakai district deserves special mention.  It has a
population of about 450.000 people and has no hospital or testing
ability for RIV at any of the health centers. AIDS is said to be
most pervasive in Rakai district and estimates suggest that nearly
601 of the population of the district is HIV positive. The
project's support for a district hospital in Rakai will enable
testing. counselling and management of patients with HIV to take
place as well as providing a district hospital to serve the
community.



-42-
B. Risks
5.06      The project faces three main risks.  The first concerns
the implementation capacity of the MOH. The MOH is understaffed and
is organizationally weak. It has serious financial, managerial and
administrative problems. The project attempts to address these
problems in a systematic way. However. since results will be felt
only in the medium and longer term. project implementation has been
so structured as to avoid overestending the MOH's staff.
5.07      The second risk concerns the willingness and ability of
health authorities to develop alternate methods of financing.
Although NGOs have been successful in raising resources for their
health facilities, the MOH has had little experience in this regard.
The ability to collect additional funds. ensuring appropriate
utilization and accounting is of serious concern. The establishment
of independent hospital and health centers management boards who
would build on NGO experience, should alleviate this risk. More
importantly there have been a number of instances when communities
have developed self-help programs to maintain, expand and
construct facilities. The strength of the Resistance Committees at
the village level is another indication that increasing confidence
is justified in the capacity of communities to develop financing
schemes through a variety of mechanisma.
5.08      The third risk relates to lack of motivation at all levels
essentially due to low levels of remuneration. Despite extra
allowances for doctors and nurses. salary scales within the health
service are so low that medical and other staff have to work outside
the government health services to survive. The project will address
some of the cases of low motivation through improved management
systems and better management of staff and facilities generally.
through rehabilitation of facilities to improve the working
environemrnt and through greater community involvement in health
services aimed at funding maintenance and repairs and supplementing
salaries.
VI.   ASSURANCES ASD 
6.01      During credit negotiations Government agreed to the
following conditions of effectiveness:
(i)   Government would provide IDA with an acceptable
timetable for the completion of the full set of
documents and drawings. site plans. specifications
and bills of quantities for the facilities being
rehabilitated (para. 4.03).



-43-
(ii)   Government would have appointed a project coordinator
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.05).
6.02      Other covenants to ensure the sustainability of the
facilities financed under the project were agreed as follows:
(i) During the rehabilitation of each facility under the
project. Government would carry out a manpower
analysis and management study so as to ensure that
management improvement and manpower standards would
be introduced and go hand in hand with physical
rehabilitation. Establishment of staffing standards.
elimination of redundant positions and workers and
redeployment of staff would be finalized by the time
of completion of the physical works (para. 1.10). In
addition. Government would supply IDA with an
acceptable staffing resources plan for each facility
to be financed under the project no later than June
30. 1989 and a similar staffing resources plan for
the workshops no later than December 31. 1989 (para.
2.08).
(ii)  Government would.  by December 31, 1989, establish
Management Commitvees for each hospital and health
center, with functions satisfactory to IDA.  These
Committees would be responsible for the periodic
oversight of the facility as well as assisting in
generating additional funding particularly with
respect to facilities rehabilitated under this
project. Government would also provide financial
plans, with details of alternative schemes for
resource generation, including cost recovery. at the
rehabilitated facilities so that IDA can determine
that such schemes are properly established and
appropriately implemented (para. 2.25).
Covenants to ensure the sustainability of the health
sector as a whole are:
(iii) Government would provide by December 31. 1990. for
review by IDA. details of the health sector financing
and recurrent cost financing to show that sufficient
funds are being made available to sustain the health
service (para. 1.35).
(iv) Government would submit to IDA by December 31. 1989 a
review of existing manpower and an optimal health
sector staffing plan together with an implementation
plan (para. 1.22). The plan would provide for the



-44-
transfer to the extent practicable, and appropriate
training if nended. of excess staff to categories
with too few (para. 1.45).
(v)  Government would submit to IDA by December 31, 1989 a
proposal for the development of a referral system and
implementation plan both to be satisfactory to IDA
(para. 1.29).
(vi)  By December 31. 1988. Government would produce a
timetable for the implementation of the mutually
agreed recommendations deriving from Health Policy
Review Commission regarding the organization and
management of the health system (para. 1.31).
(vii) Government would recruit a consultant whose
experience and qualifications are satisfactory to
IDA. to assist the MOH undertake the preparation of
the National Health Plan. The plan would be complete
no later than December 31. 1988 (para. 1.39 and
1.43).
(viii) Government would ensure that the funds deriving from
the sale of newsprint to the New Vision newspaper
would be used to set up a health revolving account
(para. 2.12) to support mother-and-child health care
program of NGOs.
(ix) Government would appoint. by December 31. 1988 a
health education coordinatioa committee or similar
mechanism chaired by the Director of Medical
Services. ant' including representatives from other
MOR divisions, the Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Information and Broadcasting and the New Vision and
Munno newspapers (para. 2.13).
(z) Government would have authorized by June 30. 1989,
that the funds generated through community and health
related financing activities including cost recovery
be rechanneled to the respective health facility
(para. 2.27).
Other covenants are:
(xi) Government would make the results of studies carried
out under the project available to IDA within six
months of their completion for review and comment
(para. 2.21).
(xii) Government would submit to IDA for approval proposals
for income generating activities based on community



-45-
participation (using the revolving funds) as well as
including accounting mechanisms (para. 2.28).
(xiii) Each NGO proposal, including its accounting
mechanisms would be submitted to IDA for review and
comment prior to implementation (pars. 2.30).
(xiv) As a basis for monitoring, Govetiment would prepare
and submit to IDA annual implementation and work
plans beginning with FY89. A mid-term review. based
thereon. would be undertaken no later than December
31. 1990 (para. 4.07).
(xv) Audits would be performed by the Auditor General's
office or by independent auditors acceptable to IDA
applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Audits
would be submitted to IDA within six months following
the end of the Government's fiscal year (para. 4.17).
(xvi) Government would submit to IDA. by December 1. 1988.
evidence that it has secured from the donors the
equivalent of not less than US$6.5 million for the
financing of the project (para. 3.06).
6.03      The following conditions of disbursements were agreed:
(i)   For the funds related to the construction of a new
district hospital in Rakai district: selection of a
site acceptable to IDA (para. 2.08).
(ii)   For the funds related to the health and hygiene
education component: preparation of acceptable
details for its implementation (para. 2.18).
6.04      Recommendation.  Subject to the above provisions. the
proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of SDR 38.0 million (US$52.5 million equivalent) to the Government
of Uganda.



-46-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 5
UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
_ __..    .   ..... ._..,.._ _.  ...  _.
ANNEX 1 - STATISTICAL ANNEX
TABLE 1
---------------------------------------------------------------------_
LEADING CAUSES OF MORTALITY
Cause of Death                                          Porf Deat_h
Measles                                                              24
Respiratory Tract Infections                                         17
Gastroenteritis                                                      11
Anemia                                                                6
Malaria                                                               5
Trauma                                                                5
Tetanus                                                               4
Malnutrition                                                          3
Tuberculosis                                                          2
Whooping Cough                                                        2
Other                                                                21
Total:                     100
- - ---- - -- --- -- - -- -- --- ---- -- --- -- -- -- - -- --- ------ - -- - ----- - ----__-



-47-
Annex 1
Page 2 of 5
U,GANDA: FIRST HE8kTH PROJE.CT
.TALE 2
MINISTRY OF HEALTH EST,ALISHtvNT BY CADRE
CADRE                                     ESTABLISHIMENT
Medical                                                 680
Nursing Registered                                    1,830
Enrolled                                      3,948
Medical & Anaesthetic Assistant                         531
Dental Technician/Assistant                              18
Laboratory                                              174
Radiography                                              103
Pharmacy                                                 31
Dispensing                                               85
Orthopaedics                                             63
Physiotherapy                                            67
Occupational Therapy                                     25
Health Inspectors                                       231
Assistants                                       492
Administration General                                  250
Accountancy                               46
Establishments                            49
Hospitals                                 59
Engineering                                              24
Supply/Stores                                           132
Housekeepers/Wardens/Domestics                           85
Catering                                                 27
Medical Records                                          32
Social Workers                                           12
Secretarial, etc.                                       112
Artificial Limb Makers                                   13
Photography                                              10
Others: Medical                                          47
Nonmedical                                       29
TOTAL      9,205
Souroe: AMREF Report on the Correct Situation of Health Manpower in Uganda,
December 1987



-48-
Annex 1
Page 3 of 5
ULGDA: _F IRSTHEALTH PROJECT
TABLE 3
COMPPRISON OF STAFF  FIGURES WITH ESTABLISHMEN7
CADRE           ESTIMATES        MOH     EXCESS   _
12W86      ESTABLT  IN EST    EXCES
ALL STPfF                 13,122       9,205      3,917       43%
Senior Consultant             36          16         20       125%o
Consultant                    60          42         18       43%
Medical Officer              595         579         16        3%
Registered Nurse           1,962       1,830        132        7%
Enrolled Nurse             4,984       3,948      1,036       26%
Medical/Anaesth Assistant    948         531        317       33%
Dental Techn/Asst            116          18         98      544%
Laboratory Technician        335         176        159       90%
Radiographer                 142         103         39       38%
Pharmacist                    27          31         -4      -13%
Dispenser                    227          85        142      167%
Orthopaedic Assistant         93          63         30       48%
Physiotherapist               23          67        -44      -66%
Occupational Therapist         7          25        -18      -72%
Health Inspector             236         231          5        2%
Health Assistant             492         492          0        0%
Source: AMREF Report on the Current Situation of Health Manpower in Uganda,
Deceffber 1986



-49-
Annex 1
Page 4 of S
3LWDA: FIRST HEALTH PRQECT
TABLE 4
ESTIMATES OF TOTAL PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON HEALTH CARE (FY87)
(U5h million)
Relevant Unii
Recurrent         DeveLgrnent
MOH
19,481.4             11,642.5
Mulago Hospital            6,318.9               5,698.9
MLG Estimated.             2,426.5
Rural                                            59.4
Urban
28,226.8              17,400.8



-50-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
U,GADA: FIRST HEAL.TH PRGECT
TABLE 5
TRENDS IN MOH EXPENDITUREs 1972 - 1988
(USh million)
Fiscal                      Annual MO. H Exjenditures
Year , __Recurrent   T__ Ctal                         Total
1972            106             22                      128
1973            114             14                      128
1974            109              6                      115
1975            131              3                      134
1976            202              9                      211
1977            309             71                      380
1978            406             86                      492
1979            280             36                      316
1980            346             65                      411
1981            487             79                      566
1982           1174            309                     1483
1983           2125            493                     2618
1984           2695            290                     2985
1985           6589           1491                     8080
1986          8B33             584                     9417
19874/        19481          11643                    31124
1988/b        14700          18100                    32800
Source: Ministry of Finance - Background to the Budget, 1987/88
a/  epproved estimates.
b/  Estimates, excluding Mulago Hospital.
Mulago Hospital - recurrent estimate USh 6,319 million
- capital estimate USh 5,699 million



-51-
Annex 2
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA. FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX 2
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND ACIVITIES BY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
Poi   ciectives            Activities              Re      ibonible
Institutions
A.  Rehabilitate a      (i)  Rehabilitate               MOH
selected number of     key areas of Mulago
health care            Hospital
facilities and build   (ii)  Reeqwip the                MOH
a hospital in Rakai    Blood Transfusion
District               Center
(iii)  Rehabilitate              MOH
eight district
hospitals
(iv)  Rehabilitate              MOH/MLG
some thirty rural
health facilities
(v)  Build a 100-bed            MOH
hospital in Rakai
District
B.  Promote health      (a)  (i)  Expand use       MI8/Newspaper
status by creating     of mass media using
awareness of health    radio, television
education programs     and newspaper;
and providing health   (ii)  Train                 MOH using
edication to all       journalists and             overseas
levels of the          health educators in         training
population             mass media
techniques
(iii)  Hold                MOH in
workshops and               con junction
arrange training for       with UNICEF
health educators and
village-level
workers



-52-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
(iv)  Produce health       MOH in
education materials        conjunction
for the National           with UNICEF
Adult-Literacy
Association
(v) Provide program        MOH
support to the
Health Education
Division MOH
(vi)  Construct           MKH/MLG
lean-to facilities
at 30 rural health
centers
(vii)  carry out KAP       MOH
activities
(viii)  provide            The Army
health education            supported by
support to the Army         MOH
(ix)  Evaluate and         MOH
adjust h3alth
education programs
(b)  (i)  Develop a        MOH
community-based
distribution program
(ii)  Develop a            MOH
prcgram for
counselling and
patient-management
for those with AIDS
and complementary
assistance to their
families
(iii)  Develop a           MOH
health and hygiene
education program to
support a proposed
water supply and
sanitation project



-53-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
C. Ensure the long-   (i)  Strengthen the         MOH
term sustainability    Health Planning Unit
and financial          of the MOH
reliability of the     (ii)  Strengthen           MOH using local
health care system     management                 and overseas
capability in MOH,         training
hospitals and rural
health facilities
(iii)  Identify and        MOH with MOF
review alternative
ways of ensuring
adequate financing
of the health sector
(iv)  Provide              MOH, Ministry
support for a number       for Women in
of NGO programs and        Development and
initiatives                NGOs
(v) Provide                MCH
assistance for
proper management
and prepare the
second health
project



-54-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX 3
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
African Medical and Research Foundation
1.   The Rehabilitation and Revitalization of Government Health Manpower in
Uganda: 13 - 30 September, 1987 by P.J. Shipp.
2.   The Cost and Financing of Health Services in Uganda: December, 1987 by
Kenneth Lee, Wendy Hull and Geoffrey Hoare.
3.   Information, Education and Communication (IEC) Component of the PIPPP:
7th - 21st October, 1987 by Dr. D.O. Nyamwaya, W. Brieger and E. Oduol.
4.   The Cuirrent Situation of Health Manpower in Uganda: 1 - 20th December
1987 by P.K. Shipp.
5.  Primary Health Care, Maternal and Child Health, Family Planning: 14th
August - 8th September, 1987, by Kofi Asante and Nicholas Cohen.
6.  In-Service Training Consultancy Report for PIPPP' Project: September 5
-October 5, 1987, by K.A. Wotton.
7.  Health Administration and Management Report: November, 1987 by James
S. Lawson and Peter R. Hatcher.
8.  Basic Training of Health Manpower in Uganda: October, 1987 by Drs.
Gretchen Roedde and Rosemary McMahon.
9.  Health Facilities and Equipment Component: June 1987 by Health and
Life Sciences Partnership.
1   Preparation for IDA financed Health, and Population Project Proposal



-55-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
World Bank:
Working Paper 1.   Architectural and Engineering Services
Report
Working Paper 2.    Information, Education an-] Communication
Working Paper 3.    Management and Administration of the Health Sector
Working Paper 4.   Management of tilago Hospital
Working Paper 5.   AIDS in Uganda
Working Paper 6.   Economic Issues in the Health Sector and Health
Service Finance.
Working Paper 7.   Sipplies and Equipment for Hospitals in Uganda
Report 1:           Communication for Development in Uganda and IEC for
the Health Sector: July 1987 by Peter Godwin
Report 2:           the Role of Local Government in the Health System:
August 1987 by Diana Ccnyers.
Government_iLUnoa
Report and Recommendations of the Health Policy Review Cormission



-56-
Pnex 4
Pag. 1 of 5
UGNDA: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX 4 - PROJECT COSTS fiD SIEDULES
Table 1. Project Coaqcnents by year including cantingmies.
Table 2. Project Corpnents by year - base-line costs.
Table 3. Disbursements.



hshs bwmm b Tu
I"        am        am        "I   am an                    aM    W.tIt                 1    It"  1"w  1"am   1    1994  1w   Tb,tl
--  ---- - mm   ---_i, _ m _                                                                                                                     - _
*. PIWLt!!!3 UP (591t164 If 911.1 FUI
1. KVAM3IUIA3NO U .9     IN 3   WAIN Vr Es
.rmo"                                                   'WA4.2  511,3, 2%t.91     t3,740.9  t.7-? P3,4 1W041, 1*,41.4.'                          4e292.1 U4.&  4.9".4 1.42.31  53.9 1t .11,10.4 24 .2
2. nwniIIUWII3 F r1t1 F11IUTIEs                                                                                                                                              I
P1519!?                                                  12?,2.. 5  144F{12?  9739.! 212,467 44.313 t7.tm2  311511.9 It8          4,7?           2.13.  132%50  434.2 473.3  742.0  79.6  42W.3 3 5.7
3. (4.W...     W      I3 ! 905314.                          pow.?  144t31.1 153.991,3 It77.7  3t037V.   1.2?96  3,143.5  3447.3                       C43.3 2457,5 2h4.6   I.3   P.1   14.9  19.1 59.M
4. M.al PW fTIS                                             !!tYI MM.   1.405*3  Il.a   1,71.3 Is9.6  2.M3,.4    l".3    9*123.9                    It42.9    24.0    21.3   29.4   31.7   34.1   343  16111,0
1*-tetttl '1943!l?4!1   0 CMRld'C   OF 51.l1 FEILITIIS        345T33359794. e  35 71411m34.  93 .  41 2!.2 152,499.9 1644.49 2.90"M 075              347U1.  X14.3.1 11.1"1,5 * .572 2.3 4Z3 2.5571. 27M5. 49O43.,
3. I      PJEt T OT19tl9!l    t! T131WHOM
1. WWIMTIO!. 1911!!
"  co9Tt !                                               31e43.39   "Pt"13  7M 42,9 73U5M24  b22.   h221.2  2.9A4  594.492,4                     h11441  1,374*5 1.23,5t 1.31131    5.5   37V.    49.3 O"4. I
2. C5I1.01M  SO ISDll531ne!                                 1t0A4   23,434.1  1224704 It495.1  2b94.4   M9.37   3. J   71.39                         32.2   391.3   294.t  25.9   49.7   53.3 * 57.3  145.?
3. toW.l1n Ap3919       t 3313 34W9
FM J41                                                     57339    7,139.9                                     -        -   12943.9                95.9   139.3        -             -              -   2-5.!
4.  !    9l7M91117l!"  UP?                                  1433.8 1lI.3  4.441.? 1t3t,              1244.4  1.342.2    34.    53194.                 2A.   279.    107.3  217.1   2.3   22.!    ..    9?.
~~~~~~- -- -- -- ,- --- -    ---- - ----- -
f!*-Wti 9K1TH  3A         iW  Ct      CYIqIT!9Pff..          493l14.3  117444.2 30l7129!e7     1333.1   4.91  6133.7  74103.9                                 1.X9 5.) I.539.3 3,717.2  11.9. 11U3.   1935 1045.7?
C. ST13161>5 1tt1l CM  KLmtol
I. 1.1391113135    1939133
111.flTN                                                   4,3M4.5    3.5493  94134.4         -        -                      246319.2              197.9   142.9   15         -       -      -       -   4.9
2. !!t 139 M 03 3. 933.5    t6.54,9t 23493,  31,34                                                        .             -        7R#,5,               349.2   3103?   341.4  357,4                      - - 1.39.5
3.  aLs"WOlI1 P  MP11f   1lt IT                              19.211.?   03941 314.0 11,59t.               -                      6 *   6 23           321.1   J12    195.2  t2.                  -      - 1.422
4. 39319 P1 111.M  M!  MOTION                                29.4%.1   17 122.3 11.799t 3,112.1           *        -             33 ,14.               42.2   2"92   23.9  47311 t                      - 14341.1
f* ti35l1914I30193 11TV C0K ICLIW!.T                            43994.    M3.9    54.3.1  11,774.2               -                  4 5-9                       1 .    94.1333.7            -                  A.".  -44.
1      U  te!Ac's                                              979.34.3 14143237.4 357t274,1 s54743  147,424.3 15t   .9 173,372.5 39090".9           14.32.3 17.423,?143;41,3 9.3t.4 2*47M.3 2U5.! 23.321.3 65A.5
39t  n., 199  35n23
0t
0
U'



HEALTH PROECT I
pfrJt Covne ts bh Teur
(USH '000)
92se Cests                                      Total
1999      1990       1991    m192       1993      1994     1995         USH    (USt' 0003
2= 33 U33summ  _U_82u   V=zmzrtw=   9=mz=u= c3u       3g   _xtzz  .z =    =
A. REHILITATION UD CONSTRUCTION Of HELTH FACILITIES
1. RE APILITATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
IHJLAGO                                                    2194391,0  411,920.0 225,326.0  690150,0  57,150.0 57,150.0 57S150.0 1097.237.0  18l360.7
2. REAITLITATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES
DISTRICT                                                   109,142.4  1586134.0 200,510.4 205,704.0  29.1d40  2#1460. 29M146.0   759292V.6  12i666.2
3. CONSTTION HEU DISTRICT HOSPITAL                             314335#0  113,792.9 113593.2   7,65.59   1,993.0  1,t93.0  1,993.0   272035.8   4,552.1
4. RJECT PAEPARATION FACILITY                                  74,745.0    1,20O.0  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,209.0  1,200.0  1,200.0    91,945.0    1,371.2
Svt-Total P!MILITATION AND COHSTRJCTION OF WALTH FACILITIES      433,613.4  695037.6 504629.6 23,699.  96389.0 8,39.0  69W99.0 2,20,147.4  36t,50.3
t. HELTH EWTION AND COlNUNITY ACTIVZTIES
1t INFOQRIATION. EDUCATION
AND COlDLNICATION                                         327,470.6   569742,8 544027.6  55.298,4  1,500.0  1t.,0  1,t00.0   499021.6  96333,7             1
2. COMMUNITY DASED DISTP.I[UTION                               16,1O,0   16t960.0  9,672.0  9.990,0  10950.0  1,950.0  1950,0    609572.0    1,013.6    >
3. COUINSELLING AND PATIENT MANAEMEN T
FOR AIDS                                                     4,986.0    4t",9.0         -         -        -         -         -      997.0       166.9
4. HEV CONSTUPIUCT!0 AT P.AKAI                                 13,546.9   124945.0  5,025.6  10.022.2    793.0    783.0    193.0    44,09E.6         737.8
SA-Tatal HEALTH EDICATION AND C.!NITY ACTI9lITIES               362,103.6   93,633.9  69,725.2  76092.6  46233.0  4,233,0  39633.0   612,654.2  10,21.9
C. STRfENBITEINO HEALTH CARE  ELItVERY
1 ALTERNATE SCPEPES OF FINANCING
HEALTH SECTOR                                                 ,300.0    6490.    0090.0           -        -         -         -    20,100.0      336.3
2. SL'PPIT FQR NMO !O6,620.0   15000.0  15,000.0  1500W.0                                                    -         -         -      61,620#0   12031.1
3. STEIGTKEHUM  OF MACArZEMIET CAPAPILITY                      181262    169251.9  10,225.! !M0M25.3          -         -         _    549.2,7       917.5
4. PLAMsMI . MOM.TQORI   AND EVALUATIOM                        19.1i1,9    15t,49.4  12.279.0 2W.707.0        -         -         -    ?1,451.3   1.195.6
%-T2tel STRENGTHEQMIS HEALTH CARE PiEl!VJERY                      !0162.1   5Q,01.3  44.404.3  49,932.3                  _ _209,000.0   !'80.4
Total WASELIKE COSTS                                                55,79.1   832,172.7 653?751. 409M74.7 942262.0 92t622.0  929022*0  3.028!01.6  50.92,9e
P"Msicetl Cantinfenies                                           95091,4    92,349e1  63,229.? 26,129,7         -         -        -   2'?!40.?9    4,474.7 2 r
Price Cowtinencie                                                37,453.8   116?.16.e 140,2!7.4 124?909*2  55,004,8  66,656.9  79.950.5   !19!?9,5  10M372.8 w'-
Total ff!JECT COSTS                                                979,34#3 1,041.237.6 e57t276.1 560.763.6 147,626.8 159t279.9 170,672.4  34916,090.0   65,530    ,
cccr.szz  S._C3z5=       CCCZ: C:CCC g=:C===  ====as :z=: 3           ====:=c: ::     =-=-=
For.is1n Efshu o                                                7-0,296.3  763:465.e 617.399.8 3m3L623  51843.7 53,917.5 55P694.4  2:696y231.7  4511.7?
April Mt 190e 1IS:23 



-59-
Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
UGANDA - FIRST_HEALTH PROJECT
ANNEX
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DIS3URSEMENTS
US$ '000
IDA Fiscal Yr and    Disbursement During   ccumulated           Accumulated
Quarter Ending       Quarter               Disbursement         Disbursement %
FY89
Sep. 30, 1988        1,600                   -                     3
Dec. 31, 198B        2,800                  4,400                  8
Mar. 31, 1989        3,600                  8,000                  15
Jun. 30, 1989        5,100                 13,100                 25
Sep. 30, 1989        3,500                 16,600                 32
Dec. 31, 1989        3,500                 20,100                 38
Mar. 31, 1990        3,500                 23,600                 45
Jun. 30, 1990        3,600                 27,200                 52
FY91
Sep. 30, 1990        3,200                 30,400                 58
Dec. 31, 1990        3,200                 33,600                 64
Mar. 31, 1991        2,400                 36,000                 68
Jun. 30, 1991        2,400                 38,400                 73



-60-
nnex 4
Page 5 of S
IDA Fiscal Yr and    Disbursement During  Accumulated          Acumulated
QCarter Ending       C.iarter             Disbursement         Disbursement %
FY92
Sep. 30, 1991        2,400                40,8B0                 78
Dec. 31. 1991        2,400                43,220                 83
Mar. 31, 1992        1,600                44,800                 85
Jun. 30, 1992        1,600                46,400                 88
EY9B
Sep. 30, 1992         50                 46,900                 89
Dec. 31, 1992          400                47,300                 90
rar. 31, 1993          400                47,700                 91
Jun. 30, 1993          400                48,100                 92
FY94
Sep. 30, 1993          500                48,600                 93
Dec. 31, 1993          500                49,100                 93
Mar. 31, 1994          500                49,600                 94
Jun. 30. 1994          500                50,100                 95
FY95
Sep. 30, 1994          600                50,700                 97
Dec. 31, 1994          600                51,300                 98
Mar. 31, 1995          600                51,900                 99
Jun. 30, 1995          600                52,500                100



-61-
|A6nnex 5
Page  1 of  3
Ur.IN A  FIRST      T91 POC
ANINEX 5
gXTERNAL DONOR ACTIVITIES
(i) African Develomient Bank
The African Development Bank is carrying out a major review of
Mulago Hospital capital requirements to coffplete civil works
program needs long-term.
(ii) DANIDA
DANIDA, through the Danish Red Cross, set up a six year agreement
with Government to support the supply of essential drugs on a
declining funding basis. This agreement, in view of the current
economic conditions, has reoently been relaxed and Government will
only be required to cover 30% of the cost by 1990.
(iii) Eurgcean Develoment Fund (EDf)
EDF is supporting projects, under its first program, in seven
districts in the South West of Uganda where it is rehabilitating
primary health centers and rural dispensaries including building
repairs, water supplies and the provision of medical ecipment and
furniture. In addition EDF have supplied (US $0.5 million) in
drugs and provided vehicles, spares and fuel together with
technical assistance.  Under a seoond program, yet to be approved
and to be coordinated with other donors, EDF will continue many
activities covered in the first program with the exception of drug
supplies. In addition a health information system is planned.
EDF is currently funding the urgent rehabilitation of the central
national blood bank facilities through: (a) rehabilitating the
Nakasero building; (b) supplying medical and office equipment; (c)
equipping for mobile units and vehicles; (d) providing technical
assistance, and (e) financing recurrent cost for a limited period.
(iv) Federal Rewublic of Germany (FRG)
Under its current program FRG is rehabilitating Fort Portal
Hospital in Western Uganda, providing technical assistance in
hospital technology and procurement and supplying technical
equjipment and consumables. Long-term FRG is considering a project
to include coaprehensive rehabilitation of health services in two
western districts including establishing a blood bank, a
maintenance workshop and involving the conmtnity in a health
education plan.



-62-
Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
(v)  ODA
ODA has four projects under their aid program in Uganda. These
are: (a) human trypanosomiasis and tsetse control with diagnositc
and research assistance in Busoga district and the development of
tsetse traps; (b) technical assistance to Milago Hospital with the
provision of an architect, a procurement study and an assessment
of steam requirements; (c) US $1.8 million equivalent to the Virus
Research Institute at Entebbe as part of the WHO CP; and (d)
support to non-government organizations.
(vi)  UNDP
UNDP has four active programs in Uganda.  These are: (a) restoring
minimum conditions at a number of district hospitals with water,
electricity and sanitation through limited physical
rehabilitation; (b) acting as the executive arm of the
trypanasomiasis committee on control and research; (c) supporting
work on the control of the tsetse program in the southwest through
technical assistance and training; and (d) developing a project to
support the National AIDS Training and Information Materials
Project with the MOH.
(vii)  Italian Health Coogeration
Italian programs in seven districts in the north are in the
primary and community health care fields and the rehabilitation of
district hospitals. Technical assistance is provided to support
the hospital and health center staff. In addition the Italian
Health Cooperation program is supporting six NGO missionary
hospitals. The program is also supporting the WHO ACP in Uganda
and the UNICEF EPI.
(viii)  UJNICEF
LUICEF has eight active programs in Uganda in the field of health
care services.  They are: (a) the immunization program aimed at
providing full immunization services to all infants and women by
1990; (b) the national Control of Diarrheal Diseases program
started in 1984 aimed at reducing morbidity and mortality; (c) a
program directed to the national Community Based Health Care
Association, formed in 1986 and supporting 80 NGO projects and
organizations represented in the Association; (d) support for an
integrated rural and water sanitation and health project in five
districts; (e) introduction in 6,700 schools at a new Basic
Science for Health Syllabus with emphasis, in part, on AIDS
preventior and control, (f) assistance to the district heal
communica'.,_.. network; (g) support for the MOH printing and
graphics unit which produces 50% of the maintenance and repair,
under the Transport and Maintenance Organization Equipment
program, of approximately 600 MOH vehicles.



-63-
Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
(ix)   USAID
USAID is active in four areas in Uganda. Firstly, it is supplying
Oral Rehydration Treatment (ORT) packets to reckdce the incidence
of child mortality and severe cases of childhood illness due to
diarrheal diseases. This project is carried out in conjunction
with UNICEF and plans are now in hand to develop local
manufacturing of ORT packets. Secondly, USAID is working closely
with some ten NGOs supporting their efforts to irmplement sound
family planning policies and programs. Thirdly, two US voluntary
agencies were funded to promote child health by providing ORT,
immunization and nutrition training.  Child health activities of
UNICEF were similarly supported. Fourthly, USAID has supplied 2.0
million condoms in response to the AIDS epidemic. Funding has
been provided to support the ACP and five leading Ugandan AIDS
researchers and administrators have been sent to an international
AIDS meeting.
Cx)  W40
WHO have one major and several smaller on-going projects in
Uganda. The major project is in the area of AIDS prevention and
control where WHO is staffing-up the ACP with a wide rar _e of
professionals and is beginning to support the Health Education
IJnit of MOH with inputs to the IEC program. In addition to the
AIDS prevention and control program, WHO have studies being
carried out on a wide range of subjects including health manpower,
management processes and primary health care and epidemiology
studies of parasitic diseases, tuberculosis and malaria.



-64-
Annex 6
Page   1 of  1
UG.D9: FIRST HEALTH PROJECT
AiNEX 6
_COMINITY INITIATIS
1.        The general description of the state of the health facilities and
the decline in the health status overall point to a serious and
deteriorating situation in Uganda. However, the description should not
convey the view that nothing is being done. Even with virtually no raw
materials, no tools and equipment, and no financial support, dedicated
workers in the health services and concerned local communities are carrying
out minor works to alleviate the poor condition of facilities and repair
equipment. This self-help at the community level demonstrates that, given a
reasonable basis from which to start, community participation is likely to
continue both to maintain rehabilitated health facilities and to add to
these facilities appropriate extra buildings. Examples of self-help include
a relatively clean operating theatre at one district hospital, clean even in
the absence of cleaning materials and clean even though no operations have
been performed for two years. At one primary health center, new lavatories
were being built under the aegis of the local Resistance Cocmittee, who
provided the bricks, sand, cement and labor.  Without a proper workshop at
Mulago Hospital, nonetheless, workers, using simple hand tools, were
carrying out limited repairs to wooden and metal furniture.
2.        While the project will be large by local community and district
standards, with relatively large investments in the rehabilitation of
facilities, it will seek to ensure community participation not only in the
management and administration of the hospitals but also in the actual
maintenance and repair of the facilities.



-65-
Anr( 7
Page 1 of 1
UGAND:  FIRST HEFTH PR=ECT
LIST OF HOSPITILS TO BE REHABILITATED
Hggspitalo     No. of Beds         Pti5ri        Reaio
Kayunga             104            Kamuli         Eastern
Pallisa             104            Tororo         Eastern
Iganga              104            Iganga         Eastern
Kiboga              104            Mubude         Southern & Central
Masindi              80            Masindi        Western
KamWbuga            104            Rukungiri      Western
Kabale              150            Kabale         Western
Lira                194            Lira           Northern
9"
Health centers in the areas of the hospitals would be selected during the
ocurse of the project using essentially the same criteria as were used in
the selection of the hospitals.



-66-
Annex 8
Page 1 of S
GUIDELINES FOR ICB AND LCB
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Cofment         AcceptabilitylComment
Procurement Procedures
1. ELIGIBILITY
1.1     Exclusion of parti-  Not acceptable; should be    Foreign firms not expected
cipants              open to all Bank member        to participate, but as for
countries, Switzerland, and  ICB, if they wish to do so
Taiwan, China subject to
boycott provision
2. ADVERTISING
2.1     Insertion in          Required for general          Not required
"Development         notice; encourages for
Business"            specific notices
2.2     Local press           Required                      Required
2.3     Notification of       Required                      Not required
IBRD members'
embassies and
trade
representatives
2.4     Specialized           Optional; preferable for      Not required
technical journals   all large complex projects
2.5     Language of           English, French or Spanish   Local or international
advertisement
2.6     Time period for bid  Normally not less than 60    Normally not less than 30
submission from      days                          days
appearance of
advertisement
3. PREQUALIFICATION
3.1     Use of                Advisable for large,          Advisable where capacity
prequalification     complex works and custom       and experience of bidders
procedure            designed goods                may be in question



-67-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 5
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Coiment         AcceptabilitylComnent
Procurement Procedures
3.2     Basis of evaluation  Experience, capacity, and    As for ICB
financial status; minimum
requirements should be
prescribed
3.3     Method of             Individual advertisement      As for ICB, or from a
prequalification      for each contract             standing approved list
(based on criteria of
3.2), provided foreign
firms not precluded from
competing
3.4     Joint ventures with  Should not be mandatory;       Acceptable provided this
local firms          final agreement not           does not affect
required at time of           competition and price
prequalification; intent
of parties and their
contribution to be
indicated; joint and
several responsibility
3.5     Number to be          No limit to number; only      Limited numbers
accepted             those clearly not             acceptable, provided
qualified to be rejected      adequate competition
4. BIDDING
4.1     Mandatory prior       Not acceptable; restricts    Acceptable, provided
registration of      competition                   qualified foreign firms
bidders with local                                 not precluded from
authorities,                                       competing
institutions, etc.
4.2     Local agent           Not acceptable                Acceptable
required
4.3     Documents in local   Not acceptable (English,       Acceptable
language             French, Spanish)
4.4     Bid bond only         Not acceptable (see           Acceptable
through local bank   SBD's)1
1 BED's: Sample Bidding Documents (Goods and Works).



-68-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 5
ICB                          LCB
Common Issues In             AcceytabilitvlComment         AcceytabilitvICaument
Procurement Procedures
4.5     Currency of bid      Expected local               Local
expenditures in local
currency; expected foreign
expenditures $n bidder's
own, or in country of
origin or in borrower
specified international
currency
4.6     Currency of payment As above                      Local, with no obligation
to convert
4.7    Domestic
Preferences
4.7.1   Banks Goods          Acceptable at Borrower's     Bank preference not
(General)            option: 152 or import        applicable; competition
duty, whichever lower, of   with foreign bidders not
CIF price of imports         expected to arise, but if
provided domestic product    so, comparison made on
qualifies                    delivered price inclusive
of prevailing duties
4.7.2  Banks Goods           Acceptable at Borrower;s      lank preference not
(Regional)           option in 6 groups of        applicable
trading countries
4.7.3   Bank:Vorks           Acceptable at Borrower;s      Bank preference not
option; 7.112S for           applicable
qualifying domestic firms
in eligible borrowing
countries2; qualifying
criteria for firms should
be prescribed, preferably
in prequalification
documentation
2 The list of eligible countries is updated annually and circulated by the
Secretary's Department under the title 'Per Capita Income Guidelines for
Operational Purposes' (See SecM84-953 of Nov. 8, 1984).



-69-                          Annex 8
Page 4 of 5
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Comment         AcceptabiliqtlComent
Procurement Procedures
4.7.4   Other borrower       Not acceptable                 Not acceptable, unless
preferences                                        justified on sound econodic
retoting to                                        grounds
ec nomic
development, e.g.,
poverty
alleviation.
unemployment
relief, greater use
of local products,
small scale
industries, public
parastatals, etc.
4.8     Restriction on       Not acceptable                 Acceptable
sources of
transportation and
insurance
4.9     Boycotts              Only primary acceptable      As for ICB
4.10    Public bid Opening   Mandatory                      Recommended, but other
procedures acceptable if
fair to all bidders
4.11    'Two step* bid       Not normally acceptable       Acceptable
opening (all         except under special
technical envelopes  circumstances
opened in the first
step, and after a
review, price
envelopes of only
qualified/respon-
sive bids opened in
the second step)
4.12    Automatic rebidding  Not acceptable; single bids  Acceptable provided no
if less than 2 or 3  should be evaluated           serious delays result
responses
4.13    Inexplicit bid       Not acceptable; all factors  As for ICB
evaluation criteria  to be used must be
described explicitly in bid
documents
4.14    *Bracketing' in      Not acceptable; is an         Acceptable, provided
works bid evalua-    arbitrary criterion           margins justified and
tion, i.e. rejec-    unrelated to the capacity/   approved by Bank in advance
ting bids outside a  experience of bidders         of bidding
margin or bracket
of average bids



-70-                          Annex 8
Page 5 of S
ICB                           LCB
Common Issues in              Acceptability/Comment         Acceptability/Comment
Procurement Procedures
4.15    Award to lowest      Mandatory                      Mandatory
evaluated
responsive bidder
4.16    Price negotiations   Not acceptable, unless with  As for ICB
with bidders prior   prior concurrence of Bank
to contract award    and confined to the lowest
evaluated bidder (a) before
rejecting all (high) bids,
and (b) concerning any
errors, alternatives or
deviations which were
priced in bid evaluations
5. CONTRACT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1     Performance           Not acceptable; bank          Acceptable
security restricted  guarantees may be issues
to bank guarantees   bys
issued by local      a) a local bank; of
banks                b)a foreign bank through a
local correspondent bank;
or
c) directly by a foreign
bank, if acceptable to the
borrower
5.2     Performance           Not acceptable; at the        Acceptable
security on works    bidder's option, may be in
contracts in form    form of a bond issued by
of bank guarantee    insurancelbonding company
only
5.3     Price adjustment      Required normally for         Not normally required
provisions for long  contracts over one year       because contract duration
duration contracts   duration                      short; recommended if
inflation rates high and
for long duration
contracts; if used. may be
simple
5.4     Settlement of         Strongly recommended that    Acceptable
disputes by local    international arbitration
courts or local      be used; (ICC, UNCITRAL,
arbitration          ICSID for foreigners; local
procedures           courts or arbitration for
locals)
JE/st:JE.ANNEX8



of
Wfi
m ~~~  m    m                                    h*~~~~a    IMof o
of  Wimft  ltW*   u
a4                          b                                                        l
O.U
.                               ;   
a~~~ ~ ~~ aw                 Ws
1~~~F                                          off  | 
rmift I P
w    S 



IBRD
32                              3
I-oi   Ceai croiio \'                                                                         S    U    D  A                      N/                         ;e
ancl Conslruclkion                                        ..E                                                            -/;
<J^-    \.v~~.-M-,OYO\t>-i 
*     Mulago Hospital
Kaabongj
*     Rokoi District Hospital                                     De
*     Other District Hospitals                                                                            KITGUM         n)
-    Major RoadsOYKa/
Railroads                                           I Rh'
-30      -~      Rivers                                                                                                                                         ,TARUA  ap
3     District Capitals
-   - District Boundaries                                                                            ULU
Internotional Boundaries                                                                                                                                         MOROTO           m
o     25      5_0 75    100 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                            MO OTO
o'       2/0 40            60 MILES                                                                  APA dS                   \
-2f              /%A                                                                                                L.J 2Y   J        ::         C.   .  
9-/t(D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARj S/ ND                                                                                            i | A EET/H ro 
*   KABAZg   \g  {7-   \                                                                                                        EURUNDlt MASINDI  Blsin
\~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                    L0ES,,6^'     Soer TK   A N I A    MiANA5    Oe
HOIMA  KAPCHORWA
n a~~~~~~~~~ 
M                        SAL~~~~~E
Tb.s map has be"n twepared by
BUN!fUTGYO                                    MUB NW VaWs OOR.tomcoflrmaS coft,VW
enioio                                                                                     '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eade,a and a eec*.ane tr fth
MUANDE                          u                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntwnal use of rho Wtwt baw
KABAROL                                                        *.     J A    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA      wd ard the ksebomdem Fg.nc
KA8AROLF ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIIUTIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~On has map do not e5y. on if
oa 01 The ltVadd BarS and Il,
kntanabonaf Fmv,ae Co.vo.ahn
Katengo         MPI                                                                         "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n AAiment on the Lega staus
MPIGI                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot any I0tewy ar an
K                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~and,aamrent or acceptance of
-00                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~350*
KARAtE                                                                                                                                                   Ind,a,~~~~~~~~KA
J                                                                                               RWANCkA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAI
310                             32*                              330
APRI 9



