Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1934 UG
                      (First Health Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 11, 1988
                                             Credit Number 1934 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  11,  1988,  between  THE  REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA   (the   Borrower)   and   the   INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, being  satisfied of the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
Page  2
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "U Sh"  means  Uganda  shillings,  the  currency  of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
     (d)  "NALA" means the National  Adult Literacy Association of
Uganda;
     (e)  "NGO" means non-governmental organizations; and
     (f)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated  March 1, 1988, and May 13, 1988,
between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent  to  thirty  million  eight  hundred  thousand  Special
Drawing Rights  (SDR 30,800,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars,  through  the  Bank  of Uganda, a
special account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be March 31, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
          (i)  from a date sixty days  (60) after the date of this
Page  3
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
         (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
               as  may  be  set  from  time  to  time  thereafter,
               pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of
               June 30 in each  year  shall  be  applied as of the
               next  payment  date  in   that  year  specified  in
               Section 2.06  of  this  Agreement,  except that the
               rate set as of June  30,  1988, shall be applied as
               of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service  charge  at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(3/4 of 1%)  per  annum  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable  on  each  June  1 and December 1,
commencing  December  1,  1998,  and  ending  June  1,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on June 1,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant-1985 dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors  of   the   Association   and  after  due
               consideration by  them  of  the  development of the
               Borrower's economy, modify  the  terms of repayment
               of  installments  under   paragraph  (a)  above  by
               requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
               each  such  installment  not   yet  due  until  the
               principal amount  of  the  Credit  shall  have been
               repaid.  If  so  requested  by  the  Borrower,  the
               Association  may   revise   such   modification  to
               include, in lieu of some  or all of the increase in
               the amounts of  such  installments,  the payment of
               interest  at  an   annual   rate  agreed  with  the
               Association on the  principal  amount of the Credit
               withdrawn  and  outstanding   from  time  to  time,
               provided that, in the  judgment of the Association,
               such revision shall  not  change  the grant element
               obtained   under   the   above-mentioned  repayment
Page  4
               modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MOH with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
health practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement  of  goods,  works  and  consultants' services,
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be governed  by  the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1988:
     (a)  with the  assistance  of  a  suitably  qualified expert,
prepare a national health plan; and
     (b)  submit to the Association a detailed action plan for the
implementation of reforms  of  the  organization and management of
the health system.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1989:
     (a)  submit to the  Association  a  proposal, satisfactory to
the Association,  for  the  development  and  implementation  of a
referral system; and
     (b)  (i)  submit to  the  Association  a  review  of existing
               manpower in the health sector, including an optimal
               staffing and  implementation  plan  for the sector;
               and
          (ii) to the extent practicable, transfer excess staff to
               understaffed categories of  the  sector and provide
               training as appropriate.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, by December 1, 1988, submit
to the Association  evidence  that  the  Borrower  has secured the
equivalent of not less  than  $6,500,000  for the financing of the
Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  5
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect  of  the  Project,  of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account for  each fiscal year, audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied   by   independent  auditors,
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section, and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified:
     (a)  Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
          (i)  The right of the  Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
               of any grant or loan  made  to the Borrower for the
               financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
               cancelled  or  terminated  in  whole  or  in  part,
               pursuant to the  terms  of  the agreement providing
               therefor; or
Page  6
         (ii)  any such loan  shall  have  become  due and payable
               prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) of  this  Section  shall  not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
           (i)  such  suspension,   cancellation,  termination  or
                prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of the
                Borrower to perform  any  of its obligations under
                such agreement; and
          (ii)  adequate funds for  the  Project  are available to
                the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms and
                conditions consistent with  the obligations of the
                Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrrower has  appointed  a Project Coordinator with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association; and
     (b)  the Borrower has submitted  to the Association an action
plan, satisfactory to the  Association,  for the completion of the
full  set   of   documents,   including   drawings,   site  plans,
specifications  and  bills   of   quantities,   required  for  the
rehabilitation of facilities under Part A of the Project.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINSEC                           61170
                KAMPALA
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
Page  7
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                          By /s/ Elizabeth Bagaaya-Nyabongo
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:                                100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a)  Rakai                  3,700,000
          Hospital
     (b)  Other                 12,700,000
(2)  Vehicles,                                   100% of foreign
     equipment,                                  expenditures and
     materials and                               90% of local
     supplies for:                               expenditures
     (a)  health and               200,000
          hygiene
     (b)  other                  7,600,000
(3)  Consultants'                1,800,000       100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
Page  8
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Sub-projects                  600,000       100% of foreign
     for Ugandan NGOs                            expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(5)  Training                      600,000      100%
(6)  Refunding of                  400,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 3,200,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  30,800,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  any payments for expenditures under Category 1 (a) until
the Borrower has  submitted  to  the Association documentary proof
showing that land, acceptable  to  the  Association, has been made
available for the construction of  the hospital in Rakai District;
and
     (c)  any  payments  for  expenditures  under  Category  2 (a)
unless  the  Borrower  has   submitted  to  the  Association,  for
approval, detailed plans, satisfactory to the Association, for the
implementation of the health and hygiene education component for a
proposed water supply and sanitation project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  carry out  urgent  physical  rehabilitation  of selected
health care facilities and build a hospital in the Rakai District;
     (b)  strengthen preventive health programs; and
     (c)  improve the internal efficiency as well as the long-term
effectiveness of health care delivery.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation and Construction of Health Facilities
Page  9
1.   Rehabilitation  of  key  areas  of  the  Mulago  Hospital  in
Kampala, including:
     (a)  continued  reestablishment  of  the  water  supply,  and
installation and refurbishment of the sewage system;
     (b)  rehabilitation  of  elevators  and  living  quarters  of
health staff;
     (c)  renovation and reequipping  of  kitchens and the central
sterile supplies department;
     (d)  construction  and  equipping  of  a  new  electrical and
mechanical workshop;
     (e)  construction of security fencing  and repairing of roads
and pavings;
     (f)  supply of drugs and consumable supplies; and
     (g)  training of hospital maintenance workers.
2.   Rehabilitation of the  Blood  Transfusion  Center in Kampala,
including the acquisition of blood typing and screening equipment,
cold storage facilities and vehicles.
3.   Rehabilitation of the  essential  services  of eight district
hospitals,  including  the   acquisition   of  equipment  and  the
refurbishing of water supply and sewage systems.
4.   Rehabilitation  of   about   thirty   rural  health  centers,
including the acquisition of equipment, furniture and vehicles.
5.   Construction of a new hospital of about 100 beds in the Rakai
District, including the  acquisition  of  furniture, equipment and
supplies.
Part B:   Health Education and Community Activities
1.   Health Education Through:
     (a)  expanded  use  of  the   mass   media  and  training  of
journalists and health education  officers in newspaper, radio and
television techniques;
     (b)  workshops  for  health  education  officers  and village
level workers, and  production  of  health education materials for
use by NALA;
     (c)  acquisition  of  program  support  equipment  for  MOH's
Health Education Division;
     (d)  provision of health education support to the army;
     (e)  construction of lean-to-shelters; and
     (f)  studies.
2.   Community Activities through the Development of:
     (a)  a community-based program for  distribution of drugs and
supplies, including condoms;
     (b)  a program of counseling  and patient management to AIDS-
infected patients, including assistance to their families; and
     (c)  a health and hygiene education program.
Part C:   Strengthening the Delivery of Health Care
1.   Strenghtening the health planning unit of MOH.
Page  10
2.   Strengthening the management capability of MOH, hospitals and
rural health facilities  through  management training and develop-
ment programs, workshops and study tours.
3.   Improvement  of  financial  performance  of  the  health care
system through improved  planning  and  budgeting, and alternative
schemes for financing  the  health  sector, including cost sharing
with beneficiaries.
4.   Support for programs and initiatives of Ugandan NGOs.
5.   Strengthening of  Project  management  and  preparation  of a
follow-up project.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Information,  education   and   communication  materials  and
supplies, and furniture and equipment shall be grouped together in
bidding packages to the maximum extent practicable.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $2,500,000, may  be procured under contracts awarded
on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Furniture, equipment,  materials  and  supplies, estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding the  equivalent of $600,000, may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Information,  education  and   communications  materials  and
supplies, estimated to cost less  than $50,000 per contract, up to
Page  11
an aggregate amount not exceeding  the equivalent of $250,000, may
be procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Items or groups of  items,  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding  the  equivalent  of  $250,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
from a  list  of  at  least  three  suppliers,  in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract:
          (i)  for civil works,  estimated  to cost the equivalent
               of $200,000 or more; and
         (ii)  for  all  other   items,   estimated  to  cost  the
               equivalent of $100,000 or  more, the procedures set
               forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the
               Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments  for such
               contracts  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special
               Account,  such  procedures  shall  be  modified  to
               ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of  such
               contracts  required   to   be   furnished   to  the
               Association  pursuant   to   paragraph   2  (d)  of
               Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall be furnished to
               the Association prior  to  the  making of the first
               payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of
               such contracts.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  such  contracts,  together  with  the other information
required  to  be   furnished   to   the  Association  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected   in   accordance   with   principles   and   procedures,
satisfactory to the Association,  on  the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency",  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
Page  12
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Management
1.   The  Borrower  shall  coordinate  the  implementation  of the
Project  through  a   Project   Coordination  Committee  with  the
Permanent Secretary  of  MOH  as  Chairman,  and comprising senior
staff  of  MOH;  representatives   of   the  Ministries  of  Local
Government, Justice, Finance,  Planning  and Economic Development,
and Housing and  Urban  Development;  the Project Coordinator; and
the various coordinators representing  agencies and units carrying
out Project activities. The Secretariat of the Permanent Secretary
of MOH shall  be  responsible  for providing secretarial services,
initiating  follow-up  actions   and  reviewing  progress  reports
submitted for the Committee's approval.
2.   The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Planning Unit of
MOH shall carry out  day-to-day  implementation of the Project and
monitor the activities of the Health Education Unit, the organiza-
tion, administration  and  management  training  programs, and the
progress  of  civil  works.  PIU  shall  be  headed  by  a Project
Coordinator whose  qualifications  shall  be  satisfactory  to the
Association.
3.   PIU shall, with effect  from  December  31, 1988, prepare and
submit  to  the  Project  Coordination  Committee,  for  approval,
semiannual progress  reports  and  annual  implementation and work
plans, and once they are  approved,  forward copies thereof to the
Association.
4.   MOH shall, not  later  than  December  31,  1990, carry out a
comprehensive review of progress made in the implementation of the
Project and shall provide the Association with:
     (a)  details,  satisfactory  to   the   Association,  on  the
financing of  the  health  sector,  including  recurrent costs, to
ensure that adequate funds  are  made  available to sustain health
services; and
     (b)  financial plans, with details on alternative schemes for
the  generation  of  resources,  including  cost  recovery  at the
facilities to be rehabilitated  under  the Project, to ensure that
such   schemes   are   properly   established   and  appropriately
implemented.
Part A of the Project
5.   The Borrower shall finalize  an  action plan, satisfactory to
the Association, for completion of  the full set of documentation,
drawings, site plans, specifications  and  bills of quantities for
all rehabilitation works.
6.   In order to improve the  management and manpower standards of
the facilities to be rehabilitated under the Project, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  during rehabilitation, carry out a manpower analysis and
management study of each facility;
     (b)  submit staffing  resources  plans,  satisfactory  to the
Association:
          (i)  for each  facility  to  be  rehabilitated under the
               Project, not later than June 30, 1989;
         (ii)  for the new electrical and mechanical workshop, not
               later than December 31, 1989; and
     (c)  ensure that  the  establishment  of  staffing standards,
elimination of redundant  positions  and workers, and redeployment
of staff is finalized by not  later than the date of completion of
Page  13
physical works.
Part B of the Project
7.   The  Borrower  shall,  not  later  than  December  31,  1988,
appoint a Health Education  Coordination  Committee, to be chaired
by   MOH's   Director   of   Medical   Services,   and  comprising
representatives of other divisions  of MOH, representatives of the
Ministries of Education, Information and Broadcasting, and the New
Vision and Munno newspapers.
Part C of the Project
8.   (a)  The Borrower shall carry out studies:
          (i)  to identify the correct  staffing of MOH facilities
               at  all  levels   and   to  identify  training  and
               retraining needs;
         (ii)  to  develop   health   information  and  management
               systems;
        (iii)  on the efficiency  and  effectiveness of the health
               system; and
         (iv)  on the  establishment  of community-based distribu-
               tion  systems  for  drugs  and  supplies, including
               condoms.
     (b)  These studies  shall  be  carried  out  at  the  rate of
one  each  year,  with  effect  from  the  first  year  of Project
implementation.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  submit  to  the Association, for its
review and comments, copies of each  of the studies referred to in
subparagraph (a) above within six months of completion.
9.   (a)  The Borrower shall,  not  later  than December 31, 1989,
establish  management  committees  for  each  hospital  and health
center, with functions, satisfactory to the Association, including
responsibility for periodic overseeing of, and assistance to, each
facility and  for  generating  additional  funding  through, inter
alia, the introduction of alternative financing schemes, including
cost sharing, upon completion of rehabilitation works.
     (b)  The membership of  such  management  committees shall be
satisfactory to the  Association  and,  to the extent practicable,
shall be chaired by  the  local  Resistance Committee Chairman and
include representatives of MOH,  the Ministry of Local Government,
the  administration  of  the   facility  and  prominent  community
leaders.
10.  In  order  to   encourage   community  participation  in  the
financing of  local  health  facilities,  the  Borrower  shall, by
June 30, 1989,  ensure  that funds generated through community and
health-related financing  activities,  including  cost-recovery on
drugs, shall be rechannelled to the respective health facility.
11.  The Borrower shall provide:
          (i)  the Mulago Hospital  with  funds required to launch
               revolving drug funds; and
         (ii)  district hospitals  and  health  centers with funds
               required  to  launch  revolving  funds  and finance
               activities  required  to  generate  funds  for such
               hospitals.
12.  The Borrower  shall  submit  proposals,  satisfactory  to the
Association, for income-generating  activities  based on community
participation,   which   shall   include   appropriate  accounting
mechanisms.
Page  14
13.  The Borrower shall ensure that  funds generated from the sale
of newsprint to be provided  to  the New Vision newspaper are used
to establish a  health  revolving  account  to support mother-and-
child health care programs of NGOs through MOH.
14.  (a)  In  order  to   establish   and   define  the  role  and
relationship  of  NGOs,   which  provide  essential  complementary
support to MOH's health services, with MOH, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  conduct a national workshop  with the assistance of
               a duly qualified expert;
         (ii)  strengthen the coordination  of  activities of such
               organizations with MOH; and
        (iii)  provide funds for new  initiatives of Ugandan NGOs,
               especially for the development of women's groups.
     (b)  Prior to the implementation  of any proposal referred to
in subparagraph (a) (iii)  above,  the  Borrower shall submit such
proposals, including  the  proposed  accounting  mechanism, to the
Association for its review and comments.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from  time  to  time  to  the    Eligible  Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $3,400,000 to  be  withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective Eligible
Page  15
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposits furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
Eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  Eligible
Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for any  expenditure  or in any amount not
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice  from  the  Association,  deposit  into  the
               Special Account (or,  if  the  Association shall so
               request, refund to the Association) an amount equal
               to  the  amount  of  such  payment  or  the portion
               thereof not so  eligible  or  justified. No further
               deposit by the Association into the Special Account               shall 
be  made  until  the  Borrower  has made such
               deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
Page  16
