Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
R_ot No. P-4083-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$42.8 MILLION
TO
EMPRESA PUERTOS DE COLOMBIA S.A. (COLPUERTOS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
OCTOBER 24, 1985
I is doemw  bha a redrkhd dldxma and nmy be md by redplemts only In the perfamawe of
dmi Sdd ida. Its ftouts my n  ot drwise be ddbor without Wrd lBnk athoaralom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                         = Colombian Peso (Col$)
ColSl                                 = 100 centavos (ctv)
Col$152.06                            = US$1.00 (September 1, 1985)
Col$1,000                             = US$6.58 (September 1, 1985)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES ( Col$/US$)
1980          1981          1982           1983          1984
47.3          54.5          64.1           78.9          100.8
ABBREVIATIONS
COLPUERTOS             Empresa Puertos de Colombia S.A.
MOPT                   Ministry of Public Works and Transport
FVN                    National Highways Fund
FNCV                   National Rural Roads Funds
DNP                    National Planning Department
DAAC                   Civil Aeronautic Administrative Department
FAN                    National Acronautic Fund
SENA                   National Service of Traineeship
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
.
Borrower:              Empresa Puertos de Colombia S./A. (COLPUERTOS)
Guarantor:              Republic of Colombia
Beneficiary:            COLPUERTOS
Amount:                 US$42.8 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 17 years, including four years grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variahle rate.
Project
Description:          This would be the Bank's first operation in the port
subsector. The project's objectives are to (i)
strengthen COLPUERTOS' managerial, financial,
administrative and operational capabilities to improve
port services and reduce operational costs; and (ii)
upgrade port capacity by restoring port installations
and increasing port productivitv so as to enable the
public port system to cope with future traffic demand
and ensure adequate support to Colombia's foreign
trade. The proposed project consists of (a) civil
works to rehabilitate existing port installations and
to upgrade port utilities; (b) provision of heavy
cargo handling equipment, workshon machinery and
tools, second-hand tugboats, training equipment and
material, and computer hardware; and (c) management,
operational, engineering and training consulting
services.
Risks:                 The main risks associated with the project are the
uncertainty regarding traffic levels and the
possibility of COLPUERTOS not to achieve productivity
targets. The civil works component is not
particularly sensitive to these risks, and in the case
of the equipment comoonent, the risks have been
minimized by concentrating on replacement of obselete
items.
The project is associated with institutional changes
aimed at restructuring the terms of compensation to
vort labor and establishing a new pension svstem for
port workers, to free COLPUERTOS from the heavy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
financial burden imposed by the current practices.
The changes envisaged will permit COLPUERTOS to reduce
substantially labor costs and long-term pension
obligations, while improving manpower effieiency,
thereby enabling the enterprise to transfer these
benefits to port users through better service and
lower port charges. The Government and COLPUERTOS
have already shown their comitment to these
objectives by pursuing actively through negotiations
with the port labor unions the necesbary changes to
legally binding labor agreements, and by initiating
the legal process to establish a pension system self
sufficient in the medium-term and financially
separated from COLPUERTOS.
Estimated Cost:                                Local    Foreign    Total
-US$ millio-
Civil Works                                    12.10       11.10     23.20
Equipment                                       -          17.20     17.20
Institutional Development                       0.60        3.00      3.60
Project Supervision and Studies                 0.90        3.60      4.50
TOTAL BASE COST                                13.60       34.90     48.60
Physical Contingencies                          1.40        2.80      4.20
Price Contingencies                             2.20        5.00      7.20
TOTAL PROJECT COST I/                          17.20       42.80     60.00
Financing Sources:
Proposed IBRD Loan                               -         4Z.80     42.80
COLPUERTOS' Own Resources                      17.20        -        17.20
TOTAL FINANCING                                17.20       42.80     60.00
Disbursements:       Bank FY         86     87     88      89     90     91
Annual        5.0   11.0   13.0    7.0    4.0       2.8
Cumulative          16.0   29.0   36.0   40.0    42.8
Rate of Return:   38%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5530a-CO dated October 24, 1985
1, Rounded to nearest integer.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA PIJERTOS DE COLOMBIA S.A. (COLPUERTOS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa Puertos de Colombia S.A., with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$42.8 million to help finance a Ports
Rehabilitation Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
four years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. Macroeconomic policies were also reviewed in the
President's Report (P4055-CO) for the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan of May 2, 1985. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
A.  Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base, integrated
and industrialized, into one that is more open. The growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased participation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. The state enterprises are few, follow adequate pricing policies,
and many have some form of private sector participation. The country's
energy balance has been changing in recent years and the country is expected
to become a net petroleum exporter in 1986 and, increasingly, an exporter of
thermal coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of the Colombian authorities
for some time. Beginning in 1967 authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced and the authorities began lower-
ing tariffs somewhat and relaxing capital market controls as a means of
raising efficiency and increasing the profitability and competitiveness of
Colombian goods in external markets. These measures were successful in
relieving the foreign exchange constraint and stimulating growth and
employment.



B. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In the mid 1970's, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary
pressures from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased
receipts from coffee exports, together with some official surrender of
foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused a turnaround in the balance of
payments. Incomes rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation
accelerated. Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially
in rural and urban areas.  Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated overall surpluses averaging about 1%
of GDP during 1976-78 and, by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports. The
Government also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the official
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to increasing restraint on aggregate demand and troublesome
financial market distortions, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust
the program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in
early 1980 credit restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest rates
on certificates of deposit-and on lending therefrom-were freed from
controls. To offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authori-
ties further liberalized import payments and adopted the policy of not
expanding the subsidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in
excess of the resources captured from private savings for this purpose. Real
GDP growth decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960,
unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and about 1% on average in 1982-83. Agricultural output was
hard-hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use and
adverse weather.  Industrial activity deteriorated on account of depressed
aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly
in manufacturing. Unemployment reached almost 14% of the labor force at the
end of the year, up from about 7% at the end of 1981. Inflation, however,
slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the year, down from 28% in 1981 and
25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and increased to
average about US$1.8 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly from



a drop in exports in real terms: in addition to domestic factors, uajor
reasons were the slowdown in world demand, major devaluations and import
restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction in Colombia's coffee
exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange reserves
declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion, equivalent
to about six months of imports of goods and non-factor services. On the
fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with increased current
expenditures resulting from a system of automatic transfers and large infra-
structure investments in energy and transport led to growing deficits: the
overall Central Government cash deficit grew from 2.1% of GDP in 1980 to 4.1%
in 1983, while that of the consolidated public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.0%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand, and expand non-coffee exports. The rate of peso davaluation was
accelerated; the housing construction industry was provided with incentives
to mobilize more resources; and selective credit to the productive sectors
was expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for stabiliza-
tion in addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distor-
tions in the financial system. Thpse efforts were insufficient to reverse
the deteriorating trends particularly in light of the tight international
capital market. Colombia, unlike other Latin American countries, has not had
a debt problem because of the high share of official debt in total debt out-
standing and the term structure of such debt. Nevertheless, the Latin
American debt problem produced a reduction in the credit lines available to
Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term loans needed to complete
ongoing projects, which contributed in turn to further declines in foreign
exchange reserves and to strains in the financial system.
I1.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion; acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations, further
increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitability of the
commerc l1 banking and to resolve the external debt problems of the private
sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second half of
1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.1%, the unemployment rate fell to 13%
of the labor force at year's end while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on
average in 1984. Merchandise exports grew at over 16% in nominal ters
compared to 1983; the current account deficit in the balance of payments was
reduced by about US$1 billion to 5% of GDP. The losses in foreign exchange
reserves, which had accelerated during the first half of 1984, were reduced
during the second half of 1984 and reserves remained at about US$1.8 billion
(four months of goods and n.f.s. imports). The policies have been deepened
in 1985 and the results to date, on the whole, have been positive. Inflation
remains under control, while economic growth has picked up modestly, although
the unemployment rate remains higher than in recent years. The balance of
payments position has been stabilizing.
D. Growth and Balance of Payments
12.       With further adjustments during 1985-86, Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade are good. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments is projected to average about US$1.3 billion per
year during 1985-B6, equivalent to about 4% 3f GDP. The deficit is projected
to be financed by increasing disbursements of existing and new public and



private sector loans and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this
period, net official international reserves would have been maintained at a
level of about four and a half months of imports of goods and non-factor
services. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP
of 2.5% during 1985-86. Total investment will have to be maintained at over
18.5% of GDP to complete energy and mining projects; and to avoid too large
an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross domestic savings would need to
average about 182 of GDP compared to 16.4% during 1981-84, with the public
sector generating a significant part of the additional savings. Beyond 1986,
real GDP growth should resume at near historical rates, about 4.5Z per year
on average. The current account deficit should also improve rapidly from
1987 on as a result of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional
exports (particularly crude petroleum and coal), declining to some 1.6% of
GDP by 1990.
13.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
(including the private sector) are projected to total about US$5.6 billion
for the 1985-86 period. Net foreign investment is expected to account for
US$750 million during 1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing
energy projects. About US$3.9 billion is expected from multilateral,
bilateral and other sources, while about US$1 billion will be the new money
needed from commercial banks mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects
for export. At the end of 1984, Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
medium- and long-term external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to
US$8.0 billion (22% of GDP). The Bank/IDA share of this external debt i.e.
excluding non-guaranteed privace was 22.8% which is expected to reach less
than 25% by 1986. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and is
expected to peak at about 30% in 1987 and then decline gradually to below 30%
in 1990. The World Bank's share in M&LT public debt service (excluding non-
guaranteed private) is expected to be less than 24% during 1985-86. With
sound economic and financial management and the development of new export
activities, Colombia is expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and
beyond the 1985-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
14.       The proposed loan, the 114th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,834.2 million (net of
cancellations).  Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985,
US$3,758.3 million;  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 72 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84 and to US$591 million in FY85,
reflecting in part the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s and
efforts to build the pipeline. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execution have
resulted in a significant increase in disbursements during FY84 and FY85.
Improving performance of social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-
financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures and the



-5-
effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should improve
counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of disbursements in the
future. IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments of US$144.2
million in 29 enterprises and as of September 30, 1985, it held US$67.3
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit
and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
15.       Since the initial loan in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia has become
quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88Z of the loans made
were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its participa-
tion in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending for
irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommunica-
tions, urban development, petroleum development, export diversification,
nutrition and health. By the late 1970s, 53% of the loans made to Colombia
were for projects other than transport and power. Of the loans made since
1978, 35% were for power and transport, 16% for industry, 18% for agriculture
and irrigation, 8% for water supply, 6% for urban, 4% for telecommunications,
2% each for petroleum development and export diversification and 8% for
education, nutrition, health and multipurpose projects. The diversification
was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader
range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served
to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,
thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
16.      The Bank's dialogue with the Government has focused upon the need
to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and expand exports,
to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the economy
from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and
pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the
level of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained
particularly in the power sector, where power rates were increased sharply
and a least-cost expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have
been achieved in respect of some other public services, including appropriate
charges for water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
17.      The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to increase
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy through lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect the emphasis on: (i)
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) supporting quick-yielding infrastruc-
ture investments, particularly those that enable the use existing facilities
more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource mobilization.



-6 -
18.       The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification totalling
US$707.5 million. The trade policy project is designed to support the first
phase of trade policy adjustments in Colombia. Besides the already approved
public health project, work is underway on projects for water supply and
sewerage, irrigation rehabilitation, electricity distribution, agricultural
technology transfer, and financial sector management.  In infrastructure, the
Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more intensive use of
the existing facilities in ports rehabilitation, water supply and rural
feeder roads. Finally, several projects in preparation will also support the
Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the population. Proposed
lending for further rural development, agricultural credit, and water supply
and waste, will help improve the standard of living of the poor, while being
designed to make better use of existing capacity and reduce losses.
19.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
1. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 752 of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian
reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification and land
erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the lower-
income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in develop-
ing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector activities
to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported programs in
education, rural development and small farm development, but is phasing out
its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for
basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Characteristics
20.       Colombia's advantage of having coast lines on both the Pacific
Ocean and the Caribbean Sea is largely offset by the difficulty of movement
between the coasts and the interior. The three massive ranges of the Andean
Mountains running the length of two-thirds of the country pres it formidable
obstacles to communication among its main population centers, which, until
recently, developed as separate and somewhat isolated regions. The Magdalena
River, until the mid-century, provided the only overland route between the



- 7 -
Central region and the Caribbean coast and, even so, with serious navigation-
al problems during the dry season. In the 1950'a, however, under a drive
toward Integration and modernization, the transport system began to evolve
into a national network. The development of the country's railways, trunk
highways and civil aviation has greatly improved inter-regional communication
and national integration.
21.       The effort to establish the basic transport infrastructure absorbed
a considerable proportion of the country's public investment. Transport rep-
resented about balf of the Central Government's investment in the late
1950s. More recently, with the basic infrastructure in place, transport's
share has declined, and, since the late 1970s, it has been around 13Z. In
1984, the transport sector accounted for some 8X of the GDP, compared to
about 5% in 1950. In the same year, the country's domestic surface transport
system moved 25.4 billion ton-km of freight, of which 882 by road, 5Z by
inland navigation, 42 by coastal shipping and 3Z by railways. Roads and
aviation dominate passenger traffic, accounting respectively for 71% and 27Z
of total demand, estimated at 17,250 million passenger/km in 1984.
Infrastructure
22.       Colombia has a road network of about 97,000 km (10,500 km paved),
of which 25,000 km comprise the national highway system, 48,000 km are
departmental roads and 24,000 km are rural roads. The planning, construction
and maintenance of the roads network are performed under the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (HOPT) through its National Highway Fund (FVN) and
National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV), in charge, respectively, of the national
highways and the rural roads. The Departments perform their own road
maintenance through their Secretariats of Public Works.
23.       The railways system consists of 3,403 km (2,822 km Lurrently in
service) of single track narrow gauge (0.914 meters) lines administered by
the Colombian National Railways, a semi-autonomous state-owned agency. The
trunk line between the Caribbean port of Santa Marta and Medellin-Bogota in
the central highlands is 1,287 km long and carries over 70% of the total
railway traffic. The Pacific line (187 km) serves only the Department of
Valle, connecting the port of Buenaventura to the city of Cali.
24.       The Magdalena and Cauca rivers, together with the man-made Canal
del Dique (connecting the Caribbean port of Cartagena with the Magdalena
river), constitute a major transport system totaling 1,366 km of navigable
water ways, which account for almost all inland shipping. The traditional
importance of inland waterway shipping, however, has decreased with the
development of road and rail transport; the remaining river traffic is mainly
hydrocarbons and other bulk commodities, such as cement and fertilizers,
which originates at, or is destined for, the ports of Cartagena and
Barranquilla. River transport moved about 2 million tons of freight in 1984,
roughly the same volume as 30 years ago. Administration and maintenance of
inland waterways are under the jurisdiction of MOPT. Freight services are
privately operated.
25.       Aviation transport in Colombia developed early in the 1920s,
induced by the adverse topography and the inherent difficulties of surface
transport. Air traffic is now a major passenger transport mode for both



international and domestic traveling. There are presently in the Colombian
territory 70 airports whose standards vary widely. Seven of the airports in
mainland Colombia and one on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped
for international flights. Aviation is governed by the Administrative
Department of Civil Aeronautics (DAAC), which is directly responsible to the
President of the Republic. DAAC is financed by the National Aeronautics Fund
(FAN), whose revenues originate mainly from user charges.
26.       Maritime transport supports most of the volume of Colombia's
foreign trade, which is moved mainly through its public and private sea-
ports. Empresa Puertos de Colombia (COLPUERTOS), the national port authority
responsible to the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, controls all the
public ports, namely Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific coast, Cartagena,
Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean Coast and Leticia on the
Amazonas River.  Besides the two private ports of Turbo and Puerto Bolivar on
the Caribbean coast, there are privately operated berths at the public termi-
nals of Cartagena and Barranquilla. There are no private port facilities on
the Pacific Coast. The private ports and privately operated berths
specialize in certain own-user bulk traffic, mostly coal, petrochemicals,
hydrocarbons, fertilizers and cement. Total traffic at the public ports
amounted to 9.7 million tons in 1984, of which 5.8 million moved through
private berths and 3.9 million, basically general cargo, moved through the
public terminals. Most of Colombia's seaborne trade is, and will likely
remain, with the U.S., the industrialized European countries and Japan.
Transport Planning, Coordination and Investment
27.       MOPT is directly responsible for sector planning matters, including
the preparation of the National Transport Plan. The Plan, which is
periodically updated by MOPT's Sector Planning Office, defines the relative
role of the distinct transport modes based upon demand projections by
commodity type. It also outlines investment pr'grams and the corresponding
financing sources for each subsector. The object'ves of the Plan are
formulated in accordance with the broader goals established in the National
Development Plan, prepared by the National Planning Depariment (DNP).  DNP
also coordinates with MOPT and other sector agencies the programming and
budgeting processes for investments in all transport modes, except pipelines.
28.       The sector priorities in place, largely shaped to accommodate the
transport investment needs with the constraints arising from the reduced
inflow of external resources and the tight fiscal situation, emphasize rehab-
ilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure and equipment, motor
fuel substitution, transport safety and intermodal coordination to reduce
transport costs and improve efficiency. They also call for investment polic-
ies consistent with supporting productive and external trade oriented activi-
ties, coordinated with cost-based pricing policies to mobilize resources
through recovery of investments.
29.       The financing of the transport sector is arranged through a combin-
ation of (a) operatinr, revenues (38%); (b) earmarked taxes on oil products
(35%); (c) budgetary contributions (13%); (d) domestic and external credit
(7%); and (e) other sources (7%). Overall, sector funding policy emphasizes
financial self-sufficiency for each subsector. In practice, however, its
implementation has been weakened. The case of the railways-which have had



- 9 -
to resort to budgetary contributions to finance operating deficits caused by
declining demand and operational inefficiency-and the existing
cross-subsidies (between import and export tariffs in the ports, between
freight and passenger tariffs on the railways, and between user charges for
light and heavy vehicles on the highways) are becoming of major significance.
Fuel Pricing
30.       Colombia has maintained in recent years a policy of annual
increases in fuel prices to adjust for domestic inflation and to reflect the
corresponding opportunity costs. As of November 1984, the time of the last
price increase, regular and premium gasolines were priced, respectively, at
US$0.82 and US$0.93 (equivalent) per gallon, in line with the relevant inter-
national levels. Rowever, the accelerated pace of devaluation since then
brought current domestic fuel retail prices down to an average 25% below the
equivalent international levels. Retail prices should be adjusted towards
the end of this year, and more frequent increases are expected during 1986 to
compensate for the exchange rate adjustment policy currently in place. Fuel
price developments in Colombia are being monitored through specific
provisions in a Bank loan to ECOPETROL, the national petroleum company.
The Port Authority and the Public Port Operations
31.       The National Port Authority, COLPUERTOS, was created in 1959 as the
public entity in charge of the management and operation of public ports in
the country, and the regulation and supervision of the private berths located
in the vicinity of the public ports in the Caribbean coast. COLPUERTOS does
not have jurisdiction over the private ports of Turbo (operated by the
Federation of Banana Growers) and Puerto Bolivar (operated by the Colombian
Coal Enterprise) as their regulation and supervision rest directly with the
Government.  In 1975, COLPUERTOS was restructured as a state-owned commercial
enterprise under the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, with financial
and administrative autonomy. The entity is governed by a Board of Directors
in charge of the overall policy matters at national level and a General
Manager with executive management functions. Each of the ports has its own
Board and Manager with corresponding functions at the local level. The
central office is charged with policy, budgetary, development and investment
functions, while each of the ports is responsible for its own operations and
administration.
32.       COLPUERTOS' relations with its labor force are regulated by collec-
tive labor agreements negotiated periodically between the enterprise and the
port labor unions. These collective contracts are legally binding, and their
terms and provisions prevail over the national labor legislation, which esta-
blishes the minimum standards that labor contracts must comply with (minimum
salaries and benefits) and gives freedom to the parties to negotiate terms
above the minimum legal requirements. Once formalized, the collective labor
contracts can be amended only by agreement between the parties and, as last
resort, by the ruling of a tripartite arbitration tribunal in which the
parties and the Government are represented.



- 10 -
33.       The four major public ports in Colombia are Buenaventura on the
Pacific and Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the Caribbean coast.
All four ports are fundamentally general cargo terminals, even though
Buenaventura and Santa Marta have specialized facilities for bulk cargo hand-
ling and storage. The ports terminals provide services cf pilotage, towage,
bunkering, stevedoring, on shore cargo handling, lighterage and storage.
34.       Buenaventura is the main port on the Pacific and also Colombia's
largest public deepwater and container port. It lies in a tropical zone with
a heavy rainfall, which interferes with port operations. Its terminal
facilities cover an area of 1,175,000 m2. Its 13 berths, totaling 2,150
meters are naturally protected and offer draft up to 32 feet. In addition to
10 warehouses, the terminal has specialized facilities for grain (32,000 ton
capacity silos), sugar and bulk liquids. The port traffic does not interfere
with the city, and the access to the port area is adequate, even though
possibilities for further physical expansion are limited. The terminal is
connected with the hinterland by rail and road and, together with coastal
shipping, serves all the western part of the country. Buenaventura competes
with the terminals on the Caribbean coast for the seaborne freight
originating in, or destined for, the Bogota metropolitan area. All sugar,
molasses, an important share of coffee exports, and most imports from the Far
East move through Buenaventura. In 1984, this port handled nearly 2.1
million tons of freight, equivalent to 55% of the total moved through public
ports.
35.       Cartagena, situated in the best natural port location on the
Caribbean coast, is Colombia's second container port and premier cruise ship
port-of-call. Its hinterland includes the important agricultural and
industrial region of Medellin, in the Department of Antioquia. The port
links with its hinterland by road, air and inland waterways through the Canal
del Dique to the Magdalena River. Port facilities cover an area of 289,000m2
with five deepwater berths and two berthing areas for smaller
roll-on/roll-off ships totaling 1,218 meters; the port offers draft up to 35
feet alongside its berths. There is some room for physical expansion at the
port site, although access to the port is through the city streets. Addi-
tional port areas can also be developed elsewhere in the bay. Cartagena
moved 0.8 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 21% of the total freight
through public ports.
36.       Barranquilla is located at the estuary of the Magdalena River and
is essentially a regional deepwater and river port. It serves primarily the
city of Barranquilla and its area of influence, with some transshipment of
cargo for up-river transport. The port is connected with the interior by
road, river and air transport. The public port facilities cover an area of
1,030,000 m2. Barranquilla has six berths with 1,058 meters and one berth
for river vessels. Although its berths offer d:aft up to 34 feet,
Barranquilla has the most serious sedimentation and dredging problems of all
public ports. Physical expansion of port facilities is possible, although
not envisaged. Access roads to the terminal area are adequate. Barranquilla
moved 0.48 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 12% of total freight through
public ports.
37.       Santa Marta is situated in a natural deepwater bay on the Caribbean
coast. The port occupies an area of 133,000 m2. It has five berths with



- 11 -
1,300 meters offering draft up to 50 feet. Even though the terminal has four
warehouses and mechanized grain handling facilities (32,000 ton capacity
silos), they have limited use for unloading vessels because of the low
unloading capacity of the conveyor. Potential for further physical expansion
is limited. Road access to the port area is through the main city streets,
which at times causes congestion. This port links with the interior by road,
air and rail connections. The rail access to the terminal is adequate, but
the lack of a marshaling yard disturbs the traffic in the port area. Santa
Marta moved 0.49 million tons in 1984, equivalent to 12% of the total for
public ports.
38.       Seaborne traffic through Colombia's major public ports grew fast in
the late 1970s, peaking at 4.9 million tons in 1980. Declining exports-
caused mainly by reduced world demand for some Colombian agricultural
exports, the diversion of coal exports to a private port and decreasing
imports as a result of balance of payments restrictions-brought the public
ports traffic down to 3.9 million tons in 1984. Because of improved pros-
pects for economic growth, this trend is expected to be reversed, and traffic
at these ports is forecast to increase at an average rate of 1.8% p.a. over
the 1985-1990 period. The highest traffic growth is expected at Santa Marta
(7.6% p.a.) while at Buenaventura it is expected to remain at current levels
with declines in bulk traffic offset by increases in general cargo.
39.       COLPUERTOS is a financially independent enterprise and receives no
budgetary support from the Government. Most of its revenues come from
tariffs for services provided by the public port terminals and a small
portion from charges (ad valorem charge on traded goods) from the private
wharves. The Central Office is financed by the charges on the private
wharves plus 20% of the revenues generated by the public terminals to finance
its administrative expenses, capital investments at headquarters and the
ports and debt service. Each terminal retains 80% of its revenues to cover
the cost of its own operations.
40.       Over the years, until 1983, COLPUERTOS' institutional and financial
situation deteriorated sharply as the result of a combination of several
factors.  First, COLPUERTOS' management had been generally weakened by exces-
sive political interference, which resulted in high turn-over in upper
management positions, which in turn contributed to lack of continuity and
absence of clear institutional objectives. Second, influential port labor
unions (one in each port and three in Barranquilla) took increasing control
of labor and equipment assignment functions at the port terminals over the
years and generated significant overstaffing and unrealistic compensation
terms (para. 52). Third, COLPUERTOS' pension obligation to retirees,
entirely paid by the enterprise out of its own operational resources with no
funding provision, has become an unbearable financial burden upon the
enterprise (para. 52). Finally, the short-term focused management concerns,
coupled with continuous financial deterioration and recurrent labor problems,
resulted in poor long-term planning, which weakened COLPUERTOS' operational
capabilities (para. 59).
41.       By end-1982, however, in an effort to reverse these trends, a
strong management took over and initiated, backed by the Government, a series
of corrective measures to recover control of operations at the terminals and
to bring down excessive costs. Substantive progress was made in the
negotiation of new and more sustainable labor agreements, and important



- 12 -
concessions with regard to linking payment to manpower productivity were
obtained from the labor unions. Staff was reduced by 23% to 9,411 employees
(through induced attrition coupled with a freeze in hiring). The cost
reduction measures so far undertaken by COLPUERTOS' management have had an
important impact upon the financial position of the enterprise, changing the
nearly endemic operating losses of 1979-1982 into an operational surplus for
the first time in 1983 (para. 69).
Bank Involvement in the Sector and Lending Strategy
42.       The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport sector. Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a
transport sector mission reported the transport system to be in an
exceptionally bad condition. Since 1950, the Bank has lent about US$551
million in 23 loans to the sector. These investments supported the
construction of an integrated highway network and, more recently, have
contributed to the rehabilitation and maintenance of the national network and
to the development of an improved highway organization. They have also
contributed to the construction of over 670 km of the main railroad line, as
well as to the rehabilitation of other lines. A domestic aviation project
helped to improve basic aviation infrastructure and subsector efficiency and
planning. The proposed project would be the first Bank operation in the
ports subsector.
43.       The Bank's lending strategy for the transport sector emphasizes the
timely provision of development finance in support of policy reform and
institution-building objectives, including: (a) policies targeted at
achieving a more balanced use of existing transport alternatives, through
adequate price signals to consumers and improvements in marketing and
distribution arrangements for key commodities; (b) equitable treatment for
the distinct modes of transport, and for each user of public infrastructure,
by pursuing the development and adoption of cost-based pricing policies for
eacn mode, to cover marginal costs of use; (c) reduction of total transport
costs, by improving modal interfaces and the efficiency of operations within
each mode; (d) public sector funding and expenditure mechanisms to reflect
the costs of use of existing infrastructure and facilities; (e) investment
planning to give adequate priority to export development, agriculture
diversification, and energy conservation and substitution, with emphasis on
maintenance and rehabilitation programs; (f) further integration of the
public planning, budgeting and programing processes and strengthening of the
financial and personal management practices of sector agencies; and
(g) institutional and human resources development, through comprehensive
training programs at the upper and middle management, and operating levels.
44.       At the project level, this lending strategy is presently supported
by:
(a) the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1966-CO, 1981, US$33.0 million)
for construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of rural
roads; institutional objectives sought with the project
include the strengthening of FNCV's technical and economic
capability for identifying, programing and implementing rural
roads subprojects;



- 13 -
(b) the Seventh Railway Project (Loan 2090-C0, 1982, US$77.0
million) for rehabilitation and modernization of the railways;
the project supports the implementation of Colombian National
Railways' (CNR) 1983-1987 investment program and the
improvement of financial and operational management; and
(c) the Highway Sector Project (Loan 2121-CO, 1982, US$152.3
million) for rehabilitation, paving and maintenance of the
primary road network; the project pursues the improvement of
transport sector management and other subsector objectives,
including the development of a balanced pluriannual highway
expenditure program, more systematic use of economic appraisal
methodologies, the implementation of a pavement management
system and training actions at the managerial and operating
levels.
Experience with past lending
45.       The performance of these projects so far has been mixed. While the
results with the Rural Roads and Highways Projects have been positive and the
respective loans have contributed significantly to sector management
improvements, building up of investment appraisal capabilities and
institutional strengthening, as well as physical improvements, the activities
involving the Railways subsector have fallen short of expectation. The
capacity of the Railways Authority (CNR) to overcome operational deficiencies
and thus, to recuperate credibility with users of cargo services has not yet
materialized, partly because of internal management and operational problems,
such as slow procurement and poor operational planning, as well as
insufficient Government counterpart funding for needed capital investments.
The fiscal constraints have prevented the Government from making a
significant financial contribution to project's investments and has limited
its financial support to covering CNR's mounting pension payments, which are
not backed by any funding provision.  A re tructuring or deferral of the
Railways project is presently being discussed with the Government. CNR's
pension problems have served as a basis for the approach followed in the
consideration of the proposed Port Rehabilitation Project.
46.       The proposed Port Rehabilitation Project described in the following
section would strengthen COLPUERTOS' management and operational capabilities
while achieving reductions in port operating costs and ship waiting times
through better utilization of existing quay structures and equipment. It
would also introduce the mechanisms for establishing a cost-based tariff
structure and improved planning of port activities to accommodate future
traffic increases.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Long Term Goals
47.       Bank's first involvement with the Colombian Port Authority dates
back to 1980. At that time a Bank-UNDP sponsored port modernization study
performed a thorough evaluation of the Colombian ports and concluded that a



- 14 -
large scale program to modernize and equip the ports terminals with major
container facilities would be necessary to enable the port system to fulfill
properly its long-term role. This study, completed in January 1982, also
concluded that the management, labor, planning and financial problems that
have developed in COLPUERTOS over the years would probably hamper any attempt
to modernize the entity, if not resolved first. Subsequent to this study, in
December 1982, a UNDP-sponsored, Bank-executed technical assistance mission
developed for COLPUERTOS a program of immediate measures to resolve the
critical operational bottlenecks at the terminals and recommended a plan of
action to deal with the institutional and labor constraints facing the
Colombian ports, which COLPUERTOS set in motion in early 1983. Since then
the Bank has been assisting the Government in its effort to upgrade the
organization of its ports, and monitoring the developments at COLPUERTOS.
48.       The fundamental institutional changes that in early 1983 started to
address COLPUERTOS' chronic management and labor problems presented an almost
immediate impact in its financial performance and laid down the basis for the
recuperation and longer-term consolidation of the enterprise.
49.       To keep up with the policy changes taking place in the ports
subsector, and to permit a self sustained transformation process of the port
authority, an initial institutional rehabilitation project was designed to
assist COLPUERTOS in implementing solutions to its basic management,
operational, labor and financial problems as well as prepare the ground for
future expansion of its physical and technological capabilities towards the
end of the decade. The project was appraised in November 1984. Loan
negotiations were held in Washington in late September 1985, with a Colombian
delegation led by Capitan Jaime Sanchez, General Manager, COLPUERTOS.
Project Objectives
50.       The proposed project encompasses the core of COLPUERTOS 1985-1988
investment program, prepared with Bank assistance. The project represents an
integrated effort to (i) strengthen COLPUERTOS' managerial, financial,
administrative and operational capabilities to improve port services and
reduce operational costs, and (ii) upgrade port capacity by restoring port
installations and increasing port productivity to enable the public port
system to cope with future traffic demand and ensure adequate support to
Colombia's foreign trade.
51.       This rehabilitation project is based upon a comprehensive analysis
of COLPUERTOS' organizational set-up, administrative and operational proce-
dures, technical capabilities, labor practices and financial situation,
together with a detailed examination of the existing port installations and
equipment. Three of the four main commercial ports administered and operated
by COLPUERTOS-namely Buenaventura, Cartagena and Santa Marta-have reached a
degree of deterioration due to poor maintenance, aging and poor construction,
to an extent that a major rehabilitation effort is necessary in order to
ensure their continuous operation. Equipment maintenance has also been
neglected over the years in all ports: inadequate service facilities, absence
of consistent maintenance policies and shortage of spare parts combined with
inappropriate operational planning have seriously harmed productivity and
efficiency of port services.



- 15 -
52.       Concurrent with project execution, COLPUERTOS and the Government
are addressing three areas that have generated growing financial obligations
to the entity over the years. The first, and by far the most important, are
COLPUERTOS pension obligations to its personnel. COLPUERTOS highly generous
pension system, whose terms have been established in collective labor
agreements, has no funding nor cost-sharing provisions, and the company has
to pay the full benefits out of its own operational resources. The legal
status of the labor agreements and the existing legislation on acquired
rights of labor have constituted an important obstacle to change the existing
pension system. Consequently, the establishment of a new, properly funded
and financially independent pension system for COLPUERTOS employees has had
necessarily to involve negotiations with the labor unions and complex
legislative action on the part of the Government. Accordingly, this aspect
is being dealt with at Government level as described in para 69. The second
refers to COLPUERTOS statutory responsibility for dredging in all Colombian
ports and inland waterways, including those outside its operational
jurisdiction. The funds oriented to this activity became a substantial
burden on COLPUERTOS finances until 1980, when it discontinued the dredging
services for lack of resources. As an emergency measure MOPT has been
funding the most urgent maintenance dredging works, but a permanent
arrangement to permit a financially self-sufficient dredging operation in
port areas under COLPUERTOS' jurisdiction is yet to be definrid. Studies for
such a permanent arrangement are provided for in the proposed project (para.
57). The third area refers to COLPUERTOS' labor relations and terms of
employment. Significant improvements have been obtained through the
negotiations with the port labor unions in the course of the last two years,
and COLPUERTOS is committed to maintain its current personnel policy of
further reducing staffing to actual operational needs and adjusting labor
costs to levels compatible with an efficient port operation. Accordingly, a
staff rationalization plan will be developed and implemented during the first
two years of the project.
Project Description
53.       The project involves the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure,
partial replacement of obsolete equipment, acquisition of selected
container-handling equipment and preparation of studies for long term
expansion and modernization of the public port facilities; it also includes
major technical assistance and training components to strengthen COLPUERTOS
(i) managerial, administrative and operational capabilities to enable the
enterprise to improve efficiency and reduce costs; (ii) financial
capabilities through the establishment of modern financial management
techniques and a cost-related tariff structure; (iii) human resources through
training programs with appropriate technical assistance and equipment; and
(iv) planning capabilities through training of mediumr-and high-level managers
as well as fellowships for professionals on port planning and administration.
54.       The project consists of: (a) civil works for: repairing or rebuild-
ing foundations and structure of existing quays at Buenaventura, Cartagena
and Santa Marta, construction of roofing for storage areas at Buenaventura,
replacement of sheds at Cartagena, repairing storage areas at Buenaventura
and Cartagena, and acquisition and installation of emergency power plants at
the four ports; (b) provision of: fork-lift trucks and mobile cranes to cover
COLPUERTOS' shortage of equipment to handle heavy loads, trailers for general
cargo, selected container yard handling equipment, workshop machinery and



- 16 -
tools, four second-hand tugboats to partially replace the existing fleet,
computer equipment for the management information systems, and equipment for
the training program; and (c) technical assistance and training.
55.       The technical assistance services provided for in the project
contemplate: (a) supervision of construction; (b) preparation of a training
program for management, operations and administrative personnel at the ports
and COLPUERTOS' central office; (c) management advisory services on
financial, administrative, operational and maintenance functions; and (d)
preparation of technical studies.
56.       The training component would include: (a) advisory services to
assist preparation of an overall four-year training program for COLPUERTOS'
staff and all levels of management; (b) instructors to conduct courses and
seminars for medium and top level managers; (c) visit of top-managers ane
selected labor union personnel to selected ports within and outside the
region to familiarize themselves with modern port operation and
administration; (d) fellowships in port planning and administration
practices; and (e) training material. The training program will be managed
by a Training Steering Committee and operated by a Training Supervision Unit
recently established and staffed for this specific purpose. COLPUERTOS has
entered in an agreement with the National Service of Traineeship (SENA) to
deliver training programs at the working level on administrative services and
ports maintenance, and introduce formal training programs on industrial
security.   The preparation of the four-year training program would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
57.       The technical studies would encompass: (a) engineering studies for,
and design of, a future project to equip selected ports with full container
and bulk-handling capabilities; (b) a study to reorganize the dredging
services required for the operations of COLPUERTOS, and to identify
arrangements to enable dredging in the Colombian coasts to become a
self-financed activity; and (c) feasibility studies for the expansion of
Colombia's port capacity on the Pacific coast.
Use of Private Equipment
58.       COLPUERTOS' limited availability of light cargo-handling equipment
in working conditions has been efficiently covered by those from private comr
panies, which until recently had been renting them directly to users.
However, this arrangement had generated double costs because port users paid
COLPUERTOS full tariffs in addition to the rent of private equipment an.s
operators. Moreover, the cost of operntion and maintenance of COLPUERTOS'
light cargo handling equipment has been higher than the prices charged by the
private rental companies, and COLPUERTOS' operators were paid even when they
did not participate in the operation. In an initial effort to correct these
disturtions and reduce costs, COLPUERTOS has recently changed its policies in
respect of cargo handling by Ci) entering, on its own account, into
fixed-price contracts with equipment rental companies for the light cargo
services; and (ii) renegotiating labor contracts to discontinue compensation
to workers for services not rendered. Notwithstanding, until COLPUERTOS is
able to reduce the costs of operating and maintaining its light equipment to
competitive levels, it is committed not to replace light cargo equipment and
to provide the services through the equipment rental companies.



- 17 -
Port Productivity Targets
59.       Productivity of the four ports involved in the project was compared
with that of other ports of similar size and volume of traffic, and with the
average performance indicators of a sample of 220 ports around the world.
This analysis showed that while gang productivity is generally in line with
that of other ports, the idle time of ships alongside berths is considerably
longer. This is attributed primarily to poor operational planning, working
time control, equipment availability, internal traffic organization and pre-
paration of cargo/storage areas. On that basis, a comprehensive strategy for
improving port efficiency and a realistic set of productivity targets were
prepared for each of the four ports. These productivity targets reflect an
average increase in port service efficiency of 21% in general cargo handling
and 38% in container handling (measured by tons of cargo/gang/hourB) between
1987 and 1991; the corresponding increases in port throughout capacity
(measured by tons of cargo/ship/day) average 41Z for general cargo, 40% for
containers and 33% for dry bulk cargo, during the same period.
Project Costs and Financing
60.       Total project costs are estimated at US$60.0 million, of which
US$42.8 million corresponds to the foreign exchange component. Consultant
services required are estimated at 190 man-months and 270 man-months for
foreign and local consultants, respectively. Cost estimates are based upon
September 1985 prices, exclusive of taxes and duties, of which COLPUERTOS is
exempt. They include allowances of 10% for physical contingencies for civil
works, 6% for equipment and 10% for all other items. Price contingencies
were based on projected changes in domestic and international prices and
expected exchange rate adjustments during the project period. Domestic
inflation was assumed 22% in 1985, 20% in 1986, and 18% thereafter. Price
escalation on foreign costs was assumed 5% in 1985, 7.5% in 1986 and 8% in
1987 through 1990.
61.       The proposed loan of US$42.8 million corresponds to 71% of total
project costs and would finance the foreign exchange component. COLPUERTOS
would finance the local costs from its own cash generation. COLPUERTOS
already initiated the procurement of initial civil works and heavy cargo
handling equipment following Bank procurement procedures.
Procurement and Disbursements
62.       Except as noted below, civil works and equipment to be financed
with the proceeds of the proposed loan would be subject to international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines; civil work
items estimated to cost US$0.6 million equivalent or less and equipment items
estimated to cost US$0.1 million equivalent or less, may be procured through
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures open to foreign bidders. Workshop
machinery and tools, the second-hand tugboats, training-related equipment and
computer hardware may be procured through international comparative shopping
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Consultant services would be retained
in accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants. Local bidders
for equipment would be granted a margin of preference equivalent to 15% of
the CIF price of foreign competitors, or the relevant prevailing customs
duty, whichever is lower.



- 18 -
Procurement procedures per item, excluding contingencies, are summarized as
follows:
PROCUREMENT TABLE
US$ Million 1/
Procurement Procedures
Project Element                     ICB       LCB        Other     Total Cost
Civil Works                         27.3       2.2         -           29.5
(13.1)     (1.0)       _           (14.1)
Equipment                           14.1       0.8         5.6         20.5
(14.1)     (0.8)      (5.6)        (20.5)
Technical Assistance
and Studies                        -         -           9.1          9.1
-         -         (7.-)         (7.2)
TOTAL                               41.4       3.0        14.7         59.1
(27.2)     (1.8)     (12.8)        (41.8)
1/  Excluding fellowships and work visits abroad.  Figures in () correspond
to foreign exchange costs.
63.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 48Z of total
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported equipment, 100% of ex-factory costs of domestically manufactured
equipment, and 80% of local expenditures of imported equipment procured
locally; (c) 79% of costs of consultants services; and (d) 100% of foreign
costs of fellowships and work visits abroad. In order to permit an early
project start-up, retroactive financing up to US$4 million would be allowed
for expenditures incurred between January 1, 1985 and loan signature, on
account of the advanced procurement of initial civil works and heavy cargo
handling equipment. In order to expedite reimbursement of all eligible
project expenditures a Special Account maintained in US dollars would be
established in Banco de la Republica (Central Bank). This account would
receive an initial deposit of US$4 million (authorized allocation) and would
be replenished, as required, with disbursements from the loan account.
Disbursements from the loan would be made on the basis of certified statement
of expenditures for local expenditures where the contractual values are less
than the equivalent of US$200,000, and for foreign expenditures where the
contractual values are less than the equivalent of US$20,000. The
corresponding supporting documentation would be verified on a routine basis
during the supervision process.
64.       Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed over a six year period,
slightly less than the 6 1/2 years standard profile for port projects in the
region. This schedule takes into account the time savings expected from the
advanced procurement already in progress, and that the civil wcrks requiring
relatively small mobilization of equipment would be started simultaneously in
all four ports.



- 19 -
Project Execution
65.       COLPUERTOS would be the borrower and responsible for the execution
of the project. COLPUERTOS has established a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), separated from COLPUERTOS normal operations, to coordinate and
supervise the execution of the project with assistance from external
consultants. The studies on dredging and expansion of port capacity in the
Pacific coast would be coordinated and supervised by a Government-level
technical committee formed by representatives of the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport, the National Planning Department and COLPUERTOS. The
recommendations of these studies would be subsequently implemented under
Government responsibility. The measures recommended by the study on dredging
shall be implemented by mid-1987.
Financial Aspects
66.       COLPUERTOS' financial planning requires a major overhaul to become
an efficient management tool. Financial forecasts are limited to annual cash
budgets used in monitoring day-to-day operations. Consequently, capital
investments and other business decisions have been often made without
adequate economic and financial scrutiny of their long term impact on
COLPUERTOS' finances. Despite important improvements made during the last
two years toward computerization of financial infermation and cost control,
COLPUERTOS' accounting system is still complex and inadequate for measuring
financial efficiency of individual ports, and fixed assets are substantially
undervalued. COLPUERTOS has no cost-accounting to identify costs by function
and, therefore, the present port tariffs--which are applied uniformly to alI
ports-have no direct relationship to actual costs. While port tariffs for
imports are set in US$ equivalent and, thus, are automatically adjusted for
local inflation and devaluation, tariffs for exports are maintained in pesos
and have not been adjusted since 1981. COLPUERTOS' internal audit system is
reasonable but the auditing process is often hampered by the complexity of
the existing systems and procedures.
67.       From 1978 until 1982, COLPUERTOS made losses consistently.  Over-
staffing, disproportionate salaries and benefits, the expensive pension
system and the inadequate dredging arrangement, compounded by a decrease in
traffic during 1980-1982, brought accumulated losses to US$99 million
(equi-alent) and networth reached a negative US$90 million (equivalent) in
1982.
68.       Despite the rigidities imposed by the labor agreements on
COLPUERTOS personnel management, the strict cost control measures introduced
in late 1982 improved substantially its financial position. COLPUERTOS
generated a net operating income of US$25.2 million (equivalent) in 1983, and
US$23.2 million (equivaient) in 1984. The surpluses of the last two years,
together with a projected US$58 million net operating income in 1985, have
significantly improved COLPUERTOS' networth, which is expected to recuperate
to a negative US$22 million (equivalent) by the end of this year and to turn
positive in 1986. Moreover, further cost reductions are expected when
COLPUERTOS starts implementing the staff rationalization plan referred to in
paragraph 52. Accordingly, the financial forecast (para. 70) indicate
sufficient cash generation to enable COLPUERTOS to meet the counterpart
funding requirements through the project period.



- 20 -
69.       In order to resolve permanently the problems of COLPUERTOS' pension
system by way of establishing an autonomous pension fund to administer
retirement benefits to port workers independently from COLPUERTOS' operation,
the Government initiated early this year negotiations with the ports labor
unions to bring the retirement rights and obligations of COLPUERTOS workers
in line with the normal pension terms in the country. Subsequently, in late
July, a bill providing for the creation and regulation of such a pension fund
was submitted to Congress. This bill sets the legal framework for a pension
system to be funded with contributions from COLPUERTOS, payroll contributions
from its employees and retirees, and supplementary contributions from the
Government during the fund's consolidation period. Once approved, this
pension fund would take over COLPUERTOS' accrued obligations on account of
pensions and take responsibility for the benefit thereon. The Bank has
reviewed the terms of the bill as proposed to the legislature and found them
adequate. The Congress is expected to vote on it before the end of the
year. In the event the pension law is not enacted in this legislative
period, the Government has made a commitment to put in place by June 1986 an
alternative mechanism to ensure that COLPUERTOS' financial contributions
toward pensions will not exceed the amounts that would have been required
from it had the proposed law been enacted.
Financial Forecast
70.       COLPUERTOS' financial projections for 1985-1990 reflect the
expected decrease in port operating costs derived from the planned staff
reduction by attrition, although further staff reduction is expected from the
implementation of the staff rationalization plan in 1988. The projections
assume that starting in 1985, COLPUERTOS will pay for dredging costs only in
port basins and alongside quays under its jurisdiction and, starting in 1986,
COLPUERTOS' pension nayments would be limited to the employer's regular
contributions to the funding of a pension fund under normal terms in
Colombia.. They assume, however, that COLPUERTOS would start in 1986
special contributions to the fund of about US$35 million equivalent per year
(in mid-year exchange rates) corresponding to COLPUERTOS' share of the
accrued pension liabilities until they are covered. Since cost-based tariffs
would be instituted only by mid-1988 when COLPUERTOS' cost-accounting system
is put in place, port tariffs are assumed to maintain the average revenue per
ton constant, in real terms, at 1984 level. The combined effect of the
expected reductions in labor costs and the operational improvements implicit
in the productivity targets would reduce the average port cost per ton of
cargo by 24%, in real terms, between 1984 and 1990.
Economic Benefits and Risks
71.       The project is designed to increase reliability and reduce the
costs of port services through the rehabilitation of existing physical
facilities and the institutionur.  capabilities of COLPUERTOS.  The economic
analysis assessed each major project component by port. The technical
assistance and training components were not analyzed separately but their
costs were included in the overall project economic analysis. The economic
benefits of repair of quays and infrastructure improvements include:
reductions in ship waiting time, and avoidance of lighterage-related costs,
such as double-handling of cargo and cargo losses that would be expected
without the project; quantified benefits from the expenditures in equipments



- 21 -
are: reductions in ship service time and improved cargo handling efficiency
consistent with the productivity targets established under the project.
Economic ratas of return of individual components range from 16X to 86%. To
avoid double counting of time savings from upgraded equipment efficiency and
quay improvements, only ship service time savings were attributed to the
equipment procurement program, and only ship waiting time savings were
attributed to the civil works for quay improvements in the overall economic
analysis. It has been assfimed that all efficiency gains accruing to
Colombian vessels and half of those accruing to foreign vessels will be
captured by the Colombian economy. The overall economic rate of return is
estimated at 38%.
72.       The quantified economic benefits will accrue directly to port users
through lower turn around times and ship service time, which in turn would be
reflected in lower shipping costs (or avoidance of demurrage charges) than
would be expected without the project. In addition, upon the establishment
of a cost-based port tariff structure, COLPUERTOS' lower operating costs will
be translated into lower and less cross subsidized port tariffs.
73.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that the civii works components are
not sensitive to failure of forecast traffic to materialize. Although the
equipment component is sensitive to this risk, it has been minimized by
concentrating the equipment procurement program on replacing equipment items
of well established need at the present level of traffic.
74.       The project presents a somewhat higher risk than the usual for port
projects. The additional risks are those associated with the pension and
labor problems at the Colombian ports, the permanent solution of which,
because of the sensitivity and legal complexity of the issue, lays beyond
COLPUERTOS sole capacity and demands firm commitment at, and support from,
the highest Government levels. These, nonetheless, have been demonstrated by
the concrete actions taken by the Government and the results achieved so far,
which suggest that the degree of risk is acceptable and more than offset by
the project's potential benefits to the Colombian economy.
PART V - RECO0MENDATION
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 24, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -
ANNEX I
T A * L   3A                                    PaRe  1 of  6
C OOWaIk               - SOCIAL INDICATOU MDTA SIE
COLOMBIA                             BnUh       CROUPS (HGIIIED AMEBHSE
NOST                     (HOST hhOhJIT nTDXATE) /b
sCst" MIDDLE  11036C                    NICmLE lml
19OL       I@J0.11- iI2nmTLb       LAI. SEttCA A CARBU
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tT 41670 &
amu (auso sq.. no
TOTAL                             1135.9      1133.9     1135.9
AGRICULTURAL                       350.3       330.3      353.6
GM PM C&pT& CS)                         ..          ..      1430.0             L873.9                   2144.3
fmmC cosooram PM CAPRn
CKILOCBAIU Or OIL EQUIVALEln       333.0      495.0       690.0              993.6                  litSJ
IOPILATION.110D-TAR (TNbASDUS)  13754.0    21266.0    27315.0
urv   PoPLATiO  cE or TOuL)       U8.2         37.2       61.1               67.7                     47.5
POIULATIOI PEOJECIONS
POPULATON in EA  2000 (HILL)                             37.0
STATONr POPULATION (HL                                   60.0
P0PULATZOU 3010113                                        1.5
POPUTION 0111
PER SQ. IQ                        13.8        15.7       24.2               48.0                     54.7
PE  SQ. KI. SAt. LA               43.0       60.7        75.6               91.1                    166.9
0-14 US                          46.7       46.1        37.7               35.5                     31.2
5 TSit                            30.2       51.0        58.6               57.1                     61.3
65 3AND ABOV                       2.9        2.7         3.6                4.2                      7.2
POULTrIOE CROWS LuZ (2)
70TAL                              3.1         3.0        2.0                2.4                      1.6
Ull                                5.7         5.2        2.7                3.6                      3.7
BI-   a      RATE (M  TN0U5        47.2       33.8        26.0               30.9                     23.4
-NICO  UATH  RATE (PM T105)         17.1         9.7        7.3                5.0                      5.9
GROS EROOUCT    RATE                 3.3         2.6        1.8                2.0                      1.5
FAIIMLT PLANIIIIC
ACC311, ANUS.AL (T1V105)           ..        115.4      192.5 lC
USERS CZ OP HARRIED V IE)                     34.0       55.0               45.3
1M1   OF PMO  POD. PEA CAPTA
(1969-71-100)                      100.0       99.0       117.0              109.6                    109.1
2R CAPITA SUPL! OF
CALORIS (I or _UQUIREEI5)        102.0       89.0       110.0              113.2                    131.5
PROTINS (CRAMS PZR DAT)           54.0       48.0        57.0               69.4                     92.4
OF WuCH AlMDIAL AlID PULSC       28.0        24.0       23.0 Id            34.2                     34.5
aCii  (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE          9_4         6.6        3.0                4.5                      4.7
LIrE ElxCT. AT BIxRT  (YEARS)       53.1        56.9       64.1               6U4.                     67.2
INFA37    MrT. ATZ (FPER TSDUS)     93.5       70.5        53.0               59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE 5A WA (MPP)
TOTAL                             30.0       63.0        92.0 Ic            65.3                     70.2
URBAN                             54.9        58.0      100.0 7ie           76.5                     89.4
uMLAL                              6J        28.0        79.0 7i            44.2                     57.0
ACCESS TO  rCETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         47.0       65.0 Ic            56.3                     59.6
U0*                                           75.0      100.0 7-7           73.4                     65.9
LUA l                                         8.0          &.o 7;-          25.5                     47.6
POPULAInO  PU PITSICIXAI          2640.0      2330.0     1710.0 /a          1909.7                   1070.6
POP. PrE  NURSING PERSON          4220.0 If   730.0       100.0 7;           805.2                    769.5
POP. PU HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            360.0       450.0     530.0 /.            362.0                     32U.3
UBAII                              ..        380.0      490.0 77           *22.0                    201.9
RURAL                              ..          ..         .               2716.7                   4519.7
ADMISIONS PER ESPITAL BCD            ..         22.9       29.8 /d            27.5                     20.0
mIlC
AVERAGE SZE OF NDUSE3ILO
TOTAL                              .            .  .       .                  ..
UEIJ4 5v57
RILAL                              *-         5.9 
AVERAGE NO. OP PERSONS/E0O
TOTAL                                          I I .8ft
URiAN                                          1.s64
RURAL                              ..          2.&.
PERCEN-ACE OF DWELLIOS WITN eLECt.
A.Z.b                          47.0 /h     58.1 I
allAN                             53.O7ir   57.3 j0
Rl!RAL                             s.o7Wii    13.21B  1 ":



- 23 -
ANNEX I
T A I L    A 3A                                Page  2  of 6
MOST                    (MOST RECar TzlTAn) lb
z~~wLk  znotk    -   ~~    NUN"L iNCOW            NIDOIZ in-cmI
1@  Lb-      waLb 0 sumAnLk        LA?T. AMICA A CAR            EUROPE
ADJUSTD RROIJUIIT RATMIO
PRIKRAT SOTA                      77.0      10.0       130.0             106.7                     101.9
NALE                   77.0       107.0      129.0              106.5                    106.2
FSNALE                 77.0       110.0      132.0              104.6                     97.5
-                     SECUDL:z STOTAL                    12.0       25.0       4U.0                4.2                      57.5
KALB                   13.0       25.0        45.0              42.7                      b4.
FCENALE                11.0       24.0        51.0              ".9                       50.0
VOCATCOAL (C O SaMomAR)            30.6 it    20.2        21.61            13.3                      21.0
P8I1A*1                           38.0       38.0        31.0              29.9                      25.1
OORHAS?                          11.0       17.0        20.0              16.7                      19.1
a_fl
*ASS60   CARS/SOU D POP             5.7       11.2        16.6 ld           46.0                      54.2
RADIO UCRR=S/SOOMLID POP           125.1      104.3       131.7             328.3                     170.7
Tv     _-      B    POP              9.5       38.1        86.9 /c           112.4                    149.3
nRMPI ("AILY cu3aL.
INTEEIr) CTOIIAUO
PER  OUSSDPGPUILATO                50.0       108.7       41.0              81.1                      97.0
cminA AmuaL AE     Uicz/cAfM         ..         ..          2.6               2.4                       2.7
TOTAL LAS FORCE (THOSW)           4727.0     6353.0      9064.0
PUwLE C(PUe!)                     19.2       24.8        24.6              23.6                      36.3
SICAUGlT     (PUCK)               51.4       37.9        25.8 /c           31.4                      40.8
13DU:152  (P3ICMS)                19.2       21.0        21.2 7;r          24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PURCKI?)
TOTAL                             30.0       29.9        33.0              33.5                      43.1
MALE                              48.I       45.1        49.4              51.3                      55.1
P3Wll!                            I 1.5      14.8        16.1               15.9                     31.4
ECoOUaC DU lrOCTr RAM                1.7        1.6         1.3               1.3                       J.9
PISRW  Or PUAIT INCM
REEIE  I
HIHEST 5S OF IOUSUI.ZDS           41.2 lb    31.9         ..
IMISS  202 0F UWSUZOSDS          67. 71R1  60.1 l1
LOWEST 2.0  Hor                    2.1        3..  j 3..
LOST 402 0F IIOSRUOS               6.8       10.112.
mi -             -C, 
LTU     A9MC POvZn nK
LEVR  (cm  PER CaP)
038*1                              ..         ..        214.0 /d          288.3
RAL                                ..         ..        197.0 7i           185.3
UZDS rmAV nu trn
LUV. (US$1FM CAPITA)
Ul                                 ..         ..        167.0 /d          519.8
RtAL                               ..         ..        122.0 7r           359.7
ufS D POP. BELOW ABSOIUM
P*  M      INCOM  LEM  (2)
R                                  ..         ..         34.0 /d
..AL 
NOT *A~
NON AP
I1 O T 9 S
/a  The group    rg   for each indicator - popullatam-weited aritbetic seans. Coverage of          tr
meog the indicator, dopes. on avaolability of data ad is not untfon.
/b   Miami otbwriae noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 nd 1961; "Datt for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "tht Recet mtetate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1980; /d 1977; fr 1976; /f 1962; fg 1973;  b 1964; /i Incldin  teacber training at the tertiary
level;   I Ecnoo ucy actrive popuatio.
JUNaZ. 19815



- 24 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
No: Although the data are drawn from sources generally judgcd the most authoriauive and reliable, it should also be noted that they may not be intenstionally
comparable because or the lack of standardized definitions and concepts used by different countres in collecting the data. The data are. nonetheless useful to
describe orders of magitude. indicate trends, and characitnze cerain major differences between countries.
The reference groups are ( I the same country group of the subject country and 12) a country group with wmewhat higher avenge inCOMe than the country
group of the subjectcountry (ept for -High Income Oil Exporters group where Middle Income North Africa and Middle East- is chosen becuse of stronger
soco-cultural affinities). In the refierence group data the averages are population weighted anthmetic means for each indicator and shown only when majority
of the countries in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage ofcountries among the indicators depends on the availability ofdaa and is not uniform
cautwn must be exercised in relating averages of one indicator to another. These averages are only useful in comparing the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Birth Rate (per rkousand)-Numberof live births in thb: year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland walers:  per thousand of mid-year papulation: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960 1970 and 1983 daEa.                                          Crude Death Rate (per tousaud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricultural-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarilv or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduction Rate-Average numbcr ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GN' PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated bv same conversion method as U4srPA
Bank Atlas {19X1483 basisi: ;983 data.                             amy Facdee-ccprors. An1n  thoms) -Annual numn-
berof acceptors ofbirth-control devices underauspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       Famiy Psrining-Users (per at ofemarriled wenra)-T'e percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equtivalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contaception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                   groups.
Total Populaio. Mid-Year (thousandsi-As ofluly 1: 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Index of Food Production Per Caa (1969-71 = 10)-Index ofper
population:puiofent dperenitiofntoasati of urban acto totpal      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population:.different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriclture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popuation Projections                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.& coffee and tea are
Populaion in rear 2000-Thc projection of population for 2000      excluded): they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses oil se.
made for cach cconomy scparately. Starting with information on    vegetablcs, fruits. nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livcstock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capta Spply vfCaorie (percent efrequxeans)-Comput-
Srarionary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies availablein country
tality rates have not changed ever a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I ) In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age stnaicture is also   food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based or. phtysiological needs for normal activity
size was cstimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of Protein (gru  per dayf-Protdin content of
conrinue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries establshed by USDA
unity. The momentuir. of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  dav and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year z. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Thcse standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. I985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popdarion Deity                                                   average for the world, proposed bv FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkrn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                   Per Capita Protein Supply  am Anima and Pkalse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricultural fznd-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulss in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populatn Age Strcture (percent)-Children (0-14 vears). work-      Child (aes 1-4) Death Rate (per tusandu-Number of dcaths of
ing age ( 15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popltio Growth Rate rpercentJ-troal-Annual growth rates of        from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-6. 1960-70. and 1970-143.      HEALTH
Populato  Growth Rare (percentj-arbaa--Annual growth rates        Life Expectancy at Birth (yers-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. ard 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for anl people



ANNEX I
-  25 -                                     Page 4 of 6
at the time of of iu birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  Pupl-teawher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1913 data.                                     rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lRfe  Manoby Roe (,ar th.emdj-Numblr of infants who die    teacher in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of ap per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Amuc  t SoS   Whew (re e ofae-rr he, ad                        fasewr  Cars (per theand pepaineaJ-Passenger cars com-
rwaL-Number of people (totaL urban, and rurl) with rsnable     prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Ra Recelers (per sheus.dpopulanionj-AlI types of receivers
borehols, sprinp and anitury wells) as percentages of thimr respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populatn. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  exdudes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters rrom a house may be cnidaed   registration of radio sets was in effect data for recnt years may
as being within reasonable access of that howe. In rural ar-a  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
rmaoasble ass  ould inply that th  houwwife or mmbers ofthe
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TYR s {per rkep9        i-TV  receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicsed TV
receivers in countries and in yeas when registration of TV sets was
Awnes te Exreme Diupea (prew of powdxJ-oa arb                 in edrect.
ad rura-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  News      C'rcAmo (pgr aoJedpap.ai-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposaL with or  age rciulation of -daily generAl interest newspaper.' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primariy to recording gerl news.
borne systms or the uwe of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
fbp.dadon per PhjPsicio-Ppulation divided by number of prac-   Cinm  Anmal Auedmnc  per Cata per YVa-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.    number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Pepalmnos per Nunu  fPasn-fPpulauon divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
.opulation      Hotal Bed-totaL  drban, and rl-ohpulation  Totra Labor Farce rt m'adui-Economicalbl active persons. in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cludin armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private.    and specalized    students etc.. covering population of all age  Definitions in
hospitak and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are esm slunents  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenly staffed by at last one physician. EsLablshmeats pray-  lik & prmrP-Female labor force as pecentage or total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospia.  force.
howver. include health and media ceners not permanendy staffed  Agriutue fpernt)-Labor force in farming. forestrv. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconunodadon and provide a linited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Inury (ecent-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admssions per Hospital Red-Total number of admissions to or    factuting and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parrian Rate (percentj-eraL.  ak. andfemale-Participation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Averae SIe of Hous   (peeonas per hoseholdj-rotal she,         as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
andrwral-A housebold consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average  Number of Persons per Reom-,erei. urban, and rura-   Econemic Depedw  Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-641.
occupied conventional dwdlings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBLTION
Prcetage of DleWags wirt Eeciricire-toral. aa.  and rual-      Percentage of Total Dispsabk la e (botkhi  cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
rage of total urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
AJured Enofimt Ratios                                        The follow.ng estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prliwn school - total. ma  and femak-Gross total. male and    levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estsnmed Absolute Poverty Iwcoa  Level e(US per cairai-u _r
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rura-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differeces in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Emaed Reie Poverty Icome Lel f SS per  pia     h
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  ad rel-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primar.y-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
&cond&ry schol - total. male and femde-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pn-  Estmated Population Below Absolute Poverty Income Level (pr-
mary instruction: provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  centJ-awhan and rutral- Pfcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age. correspond-  who are -absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrollment (percent of secrndmrzv i-Vocational institu-      Comparati'c Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial. or other progrAms which operate  Eonomic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



god  aulbi )                                - 26 -                                         Am 
) zemd   sis            C0pt)           i       t--( ! w . .)
3-2-~~-Pdg                 xe  d,        53    Ssw 4    MD sM          MD   MD   ]M    MeD  ENd
rd~~~~~~A   9J -73 S9  Ms Z;  ifM III3D Imo- mo9  -U mo0 mo
kdmcw ~      ,3 SMZ 9%3    %M  7        62    u1  2B6 2S . ma               2;6%   20          M
2L,2Si 4m                 a,z D,32A          S-9  SL4   4J  42 DL6S Si    wIL 5%6 5  SS
anrd               AMl 3Mf 3M    M6M  l  SSb 5B                 MA   aL8   MOD 1M2    M14 az   Rh
am           ~~7,13   7,S    7Y    60 J    S   36   7.2   15   M62   DD.   D6   A5   DA    89
E ,cfwbdm           W  4iE   4;1t 4.%  4P 1    5A4   7   5A    L9   5A    as    =3   KU    9
im_fibhdff        6,11   6n   %fl    %M    4]3   Q6   9i    as   IS          M    w7   D.3    W 
tlnl*.             S,SI   4,M1   &A1    w    52   IL2   -M    MA4   M5   wi    Lt   VA   IL6   n3
QWL-nf fthrA   a: C
: 1   4       3;S~~~ 3jlS   3W    MMB   13      1    ld      O   MOD   MO   MO   XllO  ]MO   mLo
F<!~~~~ Am6 t D Z                      a    L4    ZZ          72J Rl    J :1W  CL7   m
MJF%M             4s4    SB    QB    AL    -    ma    72    -    DS   UJ   23    A6  1U3   La
W4                 3B  7S  Z7          :     -    4rlD dLI   U2 8i7.  9l t                     3 8J
: ^) 4jZ~2w           D  5;       f 4^         6A    U3 JDA   -Su  D
Rnl D7 8 DZ D 61 B~~~~L                                                 3  Z SA   601   U3S IS
mu    tu     a     4q5 -aA    no       1  2S       -    u    M3   M3  M         U.
I    d q*         IJ6   lJ    4JI   449    52  -41   M7   47   140   }L    M 2    mi   Yd9   B
ilbr             2.MU  tZ4    4b    1 111      IJ   6    so  5L9   MX       W    432   65   41   47J
MMAWlbCIFllIdf
aPffw                   25b    M9    3|    2LI    Dl    7LI   D6    W8    U    MA   ED
6d -I D D               2       9           3:J  RI B1    4773    MZ 61   7L9 Ime
Qp P:w moZc                 MD   13W wZ    s.7    ml6 a              3M3 NMZ  4=   4
%=of ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     s na tf2 No    MD    ml ah7 9 w M  U I 
9CC8 Z=                                            9B3   I.    7.9   7.8  eZ
nmte:ssa                                     62    6.    1.8    as    91    &9
bip  M)r ff(-H                            10    12      -            -09     9
04-d=L OFM=-                     ~~45    35    3      38    X 7    29
UFFP~~~Czmco ~ ~                 SM      W    i
Opp-wczwx&   aD                             2m    4m      L7
fwavwC         :Im& C                       sm    4m    Am
_.s  w q.,t, a -in   f P
Ox=Qmxc.             Gf GP.
bJ=  M. M   tD8-lpt
Ci-0 m6al



- 27 -
R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~a                                                   1r
Rpa1ob  UNAD(MY                                                                                        1 M1  1
S 5   Db   r            r                                                        m
BVmfmhdW5w            m  a      o    ZFi5 AA    4A9   40    5J        k       4CB 4M           k  4AX    %M    6.7  AM
h=cf    ad u   mv5               2Wv   2,    2,N   3A3   3,    5,,4   611   6,73   5XA    ,113  5.0   5,5U  %15 s
Rm m                                13S El tSl   61. I  a  , 2 731    5m  1 a
3)    31    4D    41    s        f    22    IF    SI        Th    33    M)23   (D
OmhmUm                  D         -      3MD   4'     3      W     Ml -Un   72        lIP -16A              d    2DZ  -4
*4                                  1      14    13    U      W3i 4     a                   ZBu    A         3m     D 
1dua-adhw I a1                            ID km        Xi    69    13   i,4  L,A   uL          13    ix    l= BL l       %
to -                             (35)  (113)  tSI ma  (     t51 t0liC  (14o )   CB     0 MW   (Lis  (     tl WMA) (tlJ   (Oa
tDIdmor~              Z                  CY)    C)   (5)   OM    (40   C3R)   (EO    M9              (KD   C( (M    ) ( N)
edwaviaL                           -as    i         n  IS  a -       15    U      2    -M    -7    -17   -36   -W    0
qvwd        l                       Z9    32                   5 a  _0 
2!M*%( -,tm                        -0    -a    -a 43D -N   -X    -M                   3D iSDIM             9    -)-
Nl k_mb           (cBkW             U    1     2W    2W    4E  SIM   5,D  4 I   3P             I3w      6   2X    2W  3,1
wah=ft             ad        )      50    73    gA    Da   IZ5   1US    ILL    WJ    6Ji        43    4A4   4.6    .   4.6
nmdb         dNZI=                3N     D     35   Za   S9   141   1,31   IMB  4,Z2  1.B
azk                               4Q    43    25    5        35      6     %     35    42   40
U3mio                           m('0   ('    (s)   (0)   ()    0         03    (7)     )    (8)
ma                               (-)    C-    C-    C-)   (-)   C-    C-)   C-)   C-)  (4
ML  z                             03    CI)   (6    (0      0    (       (     (        )   0
"mm                               76   321    3)    zv    s3    W2   Li    1,D2   13D   173
-                               (D6c   (B)   (5)      )   (la   Om       cm   (2     C)  (/G)
DI~mDtI3~                       0)    (7)   ()    3    (3)  (GO    C271)  e          (21)  (1)
OL%am*:Gou=L                     CO(   W2)   01)  (3a)  (73)  (B0)   (7)   (go)   MC  "(o
Ew                al  CZ    m                          ) oa  D        f fnD    m    a
iLMM(arWfpg,Ab
Of anmft ad MI7m; d2                     ,4 2W    2W    2S    3,39  14    5MB   5A    6S  7
ffR.4mi                        W173   IJI   VW   245   2,W   2,U   Z65   3U   3S  4AM
7 a(i04)   W.0   73                                      MD1)C       (1io  (1,70  (I    (LAM
R                              02) ()4  0              Z)   Z)    )      )  Cl  9)
susn  (= nJn nLs n&= n                                         ami   isD aem    )
Pduift                           6rM    65    86    F S          LOfi W    2Ae292    =B 3.
UdD~~~~~ urn   1,1.   1wa   2g    2,fl   3.16                                      4$)
UMldf              am    gmi~3                 3AD   UI   IN    Zs)    61        A    in   L45
Utdmmm                        Z3    ZD    36;   3B    Q7    5S    612   aD          D   - 5
CE a" bons                       115    us)         IsW3          4R     0   W91    51  S7
p9sym inZ  cES ad
*           S1 7alldAm                         7    9.2   9.0   93   12.9   8.5   12b6    6    Z.2   2.
ElmsmzG                           1O    M8    16    1.7   2.3    16    L9    23    2.5   3.1
h    lm3mmhlgau 03           7.5   6.7    73    7.9  I1.I   133   12D    MA.6  10.9  DA
(6f3) 0.)   C3)  (7.6)  (7.7)      )   (7.06     () LS) 66..)
ftl'm                            (.) (7.6)  CMA)  (8.6)  (UL8)  (15.7  (10)0 (12.   (9.7) (La..)
Aww  t           wltov*d          5.3  1IL9   I&2   143   130         V1.6   129    I!i   Ifu   57
fv~~                  U&M   W    nMQ   ("    t9.1)  azn    t ("  tE         B    (L)
firn                            (.LI)    m   (7.9)  (9.)  (o   (109)  (114   CM)   "   t.)
UDUMhLW                          37   2V.2  3M6    .7   2L           2   23.0 Z &O    2S19   22 8
MdL!n{            mid nm         273   2.1  2ZJ   BO          .1   A.4   DA)   Zb   3.2  354
s                  ilmd.d d      3L8   31.9    .S   MS   195   2.3 2SD   21.7  7b.8  23
EknWlYt=!D                        0.9   0.9   a8    M8    0.6   0.5   0.4   03    03   062
M%dmmmt_taL*=8Ku=-=                -      -      -     -      -      -     _      _      _    _
MkdB: swda*cud dtc swdm           063    w     0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1
:'   aD !}kAC
:9 Eg



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                           Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose           Bank   IDA   Uadisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA zredit                   1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Commnmications    57.6             14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                        Highways           90.0              2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power              126.0              4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y        Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export          15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                        Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply      27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply      30.5              7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              4.7
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.   150.0              32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power              124.9             48.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               85.0             64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation        37.0             13.9
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 29 -
Annex 1I
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 10, 1985)
Number  Year  Borrower                        Purpose          Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica               Power             36.0             15.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power             359.0            171.7
2069    1981  Instituto Naclonal de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio       Watershed
Ambiente                     Management          9.0             7.2
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways           73.8            63.7
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional             Highways         149.6             86.2
2174    1982  Colombia                        Rural Develop-
ment            53.0            44.8
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             12.0
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano            Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research         63.4            57.6
2349    1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.      Coal
Exploration      9.5             8.7
2379    1984  Colombia                        Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            24.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nacional Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            54.3
2449    1954  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5           150.2
2453    1984 Federacion Nacional de           Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano        diversifi-       50.0            46.3
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica           Industrial Cr.    40.0             30.4
2470    1984 Empresas Municipales             Water Supply      18.5             17.3
de Cucuta
2476    1984  Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum         130.0            106.2
2477    1984  Banco de la Republica           Development
Banking         90.0            82.7
2512    1985  Empresa Acuedacto               Water Supply     129.0            120.9
Alcantarillo de Bogota
2551    1985  Republic of Colombia            Trade Policy     300.0            185.5
Export Diver-
sification
26111/  1985  Republic of Colombia            Health Services
Integration     36.5            36.5
TOTAL                                          4,791.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                       1,033.1   5.1
Total now outstanding                          3,758.3  18.4
Amount sold                          51.0          -
Of which has been repaid            51.0           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 3,758.3  18.4
Total undisbursed                                              1,593.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
i959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board           .50               .50
1960-1965      Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                     Food products         1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans            .70       -       .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                    Home furniture         .08    .09       .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical equipment .50        -       .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing         6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera             Development
Nacional                           financing        6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de             Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging           -   1.27       1.27
L966           Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing          1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                 Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Tuirismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Norte                             financing            -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del         Development
Valle                             financing          6.00    .43      6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism               .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement               1.50       -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement               3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                         Mining               6.00       -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                              Construction
Material          0.49   2.24       2.73



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985) (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing              9.00      .20     9.20
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material        21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                              117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        67.34    9.59    76.93
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                          45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOM4BIA
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENETARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of key events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project: 4 months (Aug. 84 to Nov. 84)
(b)  Agency which prepared project: COLPUERTOS
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  October 1984
(d)  Completion of Negotiations:   September 1985
Ce) Planned date of Effectiveness: February 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Monitor the processes of (i) establishing a new pension system for
COLPUERTOS; and (ii) negotiations of collective contracts with the ports
labor unions.
Section III: Special Conditions
- The Government to establish a new pension system for COLPUERTOS
- COLPUERTOS to rationalize staffing and labor compensation
- COLPUERTOS TO:
(i)  carry out the training program on port planning, operations,
administration and maintenance for its middle and upper
management and establish by January 1, 1986, a Training Steering
Committee to supervise the training program and to maintain a
Training Supervision Unit to manage it;
(ii) present by June 1, 1986 a plan of action with regard to the
seminars and courses in port planning and administration;
(iii) furnish the four-year training program (condition of
effectiveness);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(iv)  establish not later than June 30, 1988 a cost-based tariff
structure;
(v)  take the necessary actions to achieve productivity targets;
(vi)  review with the Bank annually its investment plan and submit to
the Bank capital expenditures above US$2 million not included in
the project;
(vii)  furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1987 the conclusions and
recommendations of a study of staff rationalization and a plan
of action for its implementation;
(viii) carry out by March 31, 1987, and each year afterwards, an
inventory and revaluation of its fixed assets;
(ix)  refrain from acquiring additional light cargo handling equipment
until its operating costs for this equipment are competitive;
meet the costs related to the renting of equivalent equipment;
and refrain from compensating equipment operators for services
not rendered;
(x) maintain yearly internal cash generation equivalent to 35X of
the average annual capital expenditure of the year, the previous
year, and the projected for the following year; and
(xi)  carry out with the Bank a mid-term project review by early 1988.
- Government to (a) maintain a technical committee to supervise the
execution of the studies on dredging and on the expansion of port
capacity in the Pacific coast; and (b) implement the recommendations of
the study on dredging by June 30, 1987.



COLOMBI A
TRANSPORTATION NETWKRK
Pwmd WIM          ."
_I.U. .Ub*@ 1400 ..h.st
_Z__~~~~~~~ _-.3
?   S      ~ *~ '_                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
C~~~~R.ol
~Oflmeo,bm
f-l..,'   <   , dwi
r gh u* ._ S 4 t 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~
':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E   EV



